Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of Eau Claire since 2017. The table includes links to the ordinances
(as maintained in PDF format). For other legislation, including ordinances
passed prior to 2017, please contact the Village.
 
Adopted and effective Ordinances that amend the Code of Ordinances but have not
yet been incorporated into the Code have their identifying information
highlighted in yellow . Changes made by those ordinances are not incorporated
into the text of the Code until a new Supplement is published.
 
Jump to:
Ordinances
Ordinances and Resolutions
Ord. No. Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.      Adopt. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2015-1        4-20-2015   Comprehensive Zoning Amendment
2015-2        4-20-2015   2012 International Property Maintenance Code
R2015-4       9-21-2015   Water and wastewater service rates, fees, charges and
                          policies
2017-1        4-17-2017   Keeping and licensing of animals
2017-2        5-4-2017    Adding Industrial District - Uses permitted by
                          special use permit
2017-3        5-4-2017    Medical marijuana licensing
2017-4        5-4-2017    Medical marijuana growing operation business
2017-5        8-21-2017   Authorizing and permitting commercial medical
                          marihuana facilities
2017-5-2019-1 --          Amending Ord 2017-5, medical marihuana facilities
2017-6        8-21-2017   Adding I - Industrial District - Uses permitted by
                          special use permit
2018-1        10-29-2018  Prohibition of recreational marihuana establishments
2019-2        --          Adding C - Commercial District - Uses permitted by
                          special use permit
2020-1        3-16-2020   Noxious weed and uncontrolled plant growth
2020-2        3-16-2020   Litter
2020-3        3-16-2020   Vehicle storage and repair
2020-4        8-17-2020   Franchise to Indiana Michigan Power Company
                          Amending Title XI: Business Regulations to add Adult
2021-1        5-17-2021   Use Marihuana Establishments
                           
                          Adding Chapter 117
2021-2        5-17-2021   Amending CBD-Centeral Business District regarding
                          uses permitted by special use permit
2021-3        5-17-2021   Amending I-Industrual District regarding uses
                          permitted by special use permit
R-2021-1      7-19-2021   Appointing Michael Keesler to serve as the primary
                          emergency management liaison for the Village
R-2021-2      12-20-2021  Resignation of elected trustee Thomas Baker
                          Amending medical marihuana facilities (ord. 2017-5-
2022-1        8-29-2022   2019-1) regarding minimum operating standards and
                          location of medical marihuana provisioning centers
2022-2        8-29-2022   Amending Ch. 117 regarding Adult Use Marihuana
                          Establishments
R-2022-1      10-7-2022   Resolution supporting broadband infrastructure
                          funding
R-2023-1      2-20-2023   Resolution supporting application for Risk Reduction
                          Grant for police equipment
R-2023-2      2-20-2023   Resolution adopting the 2022 Hazard Mitigation Plan
                          Resolution adopting final project planning document
R-2023-3      4-24-2023   for wastewater system improvements or NPS pollution
                          control/stormwater improvements
R-2023-4      5-15-2023   Resolution adopting Protecting MI Pensions Michigan
                          Local Pension Grant program
R-2023-5      7-17-2023   Resolution supporting Berrien County Trails master
                          plan
R-2023-6      10-16-2023  Resolution for Industrial Pretreatment Plan using
                          Hofmann Industries Inc
2024-1        2-19-2024   Amending and restating Ch. 117 regarding Adult Use
                          Marihuana Establishments
2024-2        8-19-2024   Franchise with Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation
2024-3        2-19-2024   Sale of village-owned property
R-2024-1      1-15-2024   Resolution adopting 2024 - 2028 Parks and Recreation
                          Plan
R-2024-2      2-19-2024   Resolution adopting new Village of Eau Claire clerk's
                          inclusion to bank signature card
R-2024-3      2-19-2024   Resolution supporting application for Risk Reduction
                          Grant for AED equipment
R-2024-4      9-16-2024   Resolution regarding sale of vacant land
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
                         
 
 
 
EAU CLAIRE, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 contains
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-3, passed 2-19-2024
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine St., Suite 310, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202-3909
(800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “The Village of Eau
Claire Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, “this code”, or “code” may be substituted.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961 being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as
amended.
      AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. A police officer, building inspector, or
other designated official or employee of the village authorized by this code to
issue municipal civil infraction citations or municipal civil infraction
violation notices.
      BUREAU. The Village Municipal Violations Bureau, as established by this
code.
      CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this code or
any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code or any
other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions including,
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through
600.8735, as amended. A municipal CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      CODE. The Village of Eau Claire Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council of Eau Claire, Michigan.
      COUNTY. The County of Berrien, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code of the village, but which is not a crime under this code or any code, and
for which civil sanctions including, without limitation, fines, damages,
expenses, and costs may be ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961,
Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL
INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense of a violation of this code that is
a criminal offense.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant
is alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice
prepared by an authorized village official directing a person to appear in
court regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction
violation by the person cited.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by
an authorized village official directing a person to appear at the Village
Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any,
prescribed for the violation by the schedule of fines adopted by the village,
as authorized under §§ 8396 and 8707(6) of the Act.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of Eau
Claire, Michigan”. Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the
village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, reference
to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her deputy or
authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the village and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE, THE STATE, or THIS STATE. The State of Michigan.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Eau Claire, Michigan.
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 8-20-2001)
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village, any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the
village;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any village
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones, and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the village offices.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Village of Eau
Claire Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...”. The new provisions
shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Village of Eau Claire Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which section reads
as follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become
obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared that,
when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date of the
adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “§§ _____ through _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9a through 764.9e, as amended,
when the public servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has
committed an offense in violation of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Building Inspector;
   (B)   Code Enforcement Officer; and
   (C)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless a violation of any ordinance of the village is specifically
designated in the ordinance as a municipal civil infraction, the violation
shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The penalty for a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not exceeding
$500, plus costs of prosecution, or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or
both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the violation by this
code or any ordinance.
   (C)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by this code or any ordinance,
plus any costs, damages, expenses, and other sanctions, as authorized under
Chapter 87 of the Act and other applicable laws.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation by this code or any other ordinance, the civil fine
for a violation shall be not less than $25, plus costs and other sanctions, for
each infraction.
      (2)   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations by a
person of any requirement or provision of this code or any ordinance. As used
in this section, the term REPEAT OFFENSES means a second (or any subsequent)
municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or provision
committed by a person within any six-month period, unless some other period is
specifically provided by this code or any ordinance, and for which the person
admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible. Unless otherwise
specifically provided by this code or any ordinance for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation, the increased fine for a repeat offense shall be as
follows.
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be no less than $100, plus costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $250, plus costs.
   (D)   A violation includes any act which is prohibited, or made or declared
to be unlawful, or an offense by this code or any ordinance, and any omission
or failure to act where the act is required by this code or any ordinance.
   (E)   Each day on which any violation of this code or any ordinance
continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or
sanctions as a separate offense.
   (F)   In addition to any remedies at law, the village may bring an action
for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain, prevent, or
abate any violation of this code or any village ordinance.
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 8-20-2001)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
31.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Officers
   
30.01   Village Treasurer
   
30.02   Village Clerk
Village Trustees
   
30.15   Term and manner of election of Village Trustees
   
30.16   Increase number of Trustees on Council
Reserve Police Officers
   
30.30   Position established
   
30.31   Appointment
   
30.32   Duties
   
30.33   Specified authority
   
30.34   Statutory reference
   
30.35   Effective date
OFFICERS
§ 30.01 VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment of office. As authorized by Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch.
II, § 1(3), as amended, the Village Treasurer shall be chosen by nomination by
the Village President and appointed by a majority vote of the Village Council.
   (B)   Term of office. The term of office of the Village Treasurer shall be
two years from the second Monday of March of each even-numbered year and until
a successor is appointed. The person first appointed as Village Treasurer under
this section shall have an initial term of office commencing as of the date
such person takes and subscribes the oath of office and files it with the
Village Clerk, together with the filing of any bond required by law. The
initial term of office shall commence not earlier than the second Monday of
March 2002.
(Ord. 2001-10, passed 11-19-2001)
§ 30.02 VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Establishment of office. As authorized by Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch.
II, § 1(3), as amended, the Village Clerk shall be chosen by nomination by the
Village President and appointment by a majority vote of the Village Council.
   (B)   Term of office.
      (1)   The term of office of the Village Clerk shall be two years from the
second Monday of March of each even-numbered year and until a successor is
appointed.
      (2)   The person first appointed as Village Clerk under this section
shall have an initial term of office commencing as of the date such person
takes and subscribes the oath of office and files the same with the Village
Clerk, together with the filing of any bond required by law, but such initial
term of office shall commence not earlier than the second Monday of March 2002.
(Ord. 2001-11, passed 11-19-2001)
VILLAGE TRUSTEES
§ 30.15 TERM AND MANNER OF ELECTION OF VILLAGE TRUSTEES.
   Two of the Village Trustees shall be elected at each biennial village
election for the term of four years and until their successors are qualified.
(Ord. 2004-3, passed 12-20-2004)
§ 30.16 INCREASE NUMBER OF TRUSTEES ON COUNCIL.
   (A)   Number of Trustees on Council. The number of Trustees on the Village
Council shall be four Trustees who, with the President, shall constitute the
Council.
   (B)   Term of office. After the effective date of adoption of this section,
three Village Trustees shall be elected each succeeding biennial village
election. This section shall not shorten the term of any incumbent Trustee. Nor
shall this section shorten or eliminate a prospective term unless the
nomination deadline for that term is not less than 30 days after the effective
date of this section.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed - -)
RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS
§ 30.30 POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the position of reserve officer within the
village.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 30.31 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Council is hereby authorized to appoint by resolution at any
regular meeting of said Council or special meeting called for the purpose of
any person or persons to the position of reserve officer, under such conditions
and limitations as may be designated in said resolution. The Village Council
(or the Village Police Committee, if the Council so delegates), may similarly
by resolution remove any person from said position at any time the Village
Council deems such removal appropriate.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 30.32 DUTIES.
   (A)   The reserve officer, upon appointment, is hereby authorized to
temporarily, during the period of his or her appointment and while under the
direction of the Village Police Department, to enforce all ordinances of the
village, whether heretofore or hereafter enacted and regardless of whether such
ordinances specifically designate a different official to enforce the same or
do not designate any particular enforcing officer.
   (B)   The authority of the reserve officer shall at all times be auxiliary
to the authority of the village police officers and/or any ordinance-enforcing
officer of the village. Any ordinance-enforcing authority of police officers
and other officers specifically designated in any village ordinance as
enforcing officers shall continue in full force and effect and shall in no way
be diminished or impaired by the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 30.33 SPECIFIED AUTHORITY.
   The reserve officer’s authority herein specified shall include:
investigation of ordinance violations and other suspected criminal activity;
serving notice of violations; serving appearance tickets as authorized under
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. § 764.9c, as amended; appearance in
court or other judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings to assist in the
prosecution of violators; assisting village police officers in making arrests;
and such other specific authority or duties as may be delegated to such reserve
officer by a village police officer.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 30.34 STATUTORY REFERENCE.
   The reserve officer is hereby declared to be a member of the Village Police
Department Reserve Officer Program Auxiliary under the provisions of Public Act
203 of 1965, § 9, being M.C.L.A. § 28.609, the Commission on Law Enforcement
Standards Act of 1965, as amended.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-17-2008)
§ 30.35 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter took effect immediately upon publication. All ordinances of
the village heretofore or hereafter adopted shall hereafter be supplemented by
the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-2, passed 11-17-2008)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Committees
   
31.01   Capital Replacement Committee
   
31.02   Community Development Committee
Village Planning Commission
   
31.15   Scope, purpose, and intent
   
31.16   Establishment
   
31.17   Appointments and terms
   
31.18   Removal
   
31.19   Conflict of interest
   
31.20   Compensation
   
31.21   Officers and committees
   
31.22   Bylaws, meetings, and records
   
31.23   Annual report
   
31.24   Authority to make Master Plan
   
31.25   Zoning powers
   
31.26   Capital Improvement Plan
   
31.27   Subdivision and land division recommendations
   
31.28   Effective date
COMMITTEES
§ 31.01 CAPITAL REPLACEMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Capital Replacement Committee for the
village.
   (B)   The Committee shall consist of three members, appointed by the Village
President by and with the consent of the Village Council. The term of
appointment shall be one year, beginning the second Monday of April each year.
   (C)   The purpose of the Committee shall be to review the inventory,
condition, and maintenance records of all village equipment and to make reports
and recommendations to the Village Council as to the need to replace existing
equipment or purchase additional equipment. The Committee shall recommend
annual funding for these purposes. Recommendations for future annual budget
appropriations shall be made at the annual budget work session and presented at
the public hearing on the proposed budget prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year.
   (D)   The Committee shall keep a full and accurate written record of its
proceedings and recommendations, submitted as minutes to the Village Clerk for
the official village record. The Committee shall comply with all requirements
for meetings of a public body, as described in the Open Meetings Act, Public
Act 267 of 1876, §§ M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., as amended. The current version
of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the conduct of Committee meetings.
   (E)   Committee members shall be paid $10 for each meeting at which their
attendance is documented. Payment shall be made annually, based on attendance
noted in official minutes on file in the Clerk’s office.
   (F)   This section shall become effective 30 days after legal publication
and in accordance with provisions of the Act governing same.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 31.02 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Community Development Committee for the
village.
   (B)   The Committee shall consist of three members, appointed by the Village
President by and with the consent of the Village Council. The term of
appointment shall be one year, beginning the second Monday of April each year.
   (C)   The purpose of the Committee shall be to make recommendations to the
Village Council for lending and administering the Village Community Development
Fund cash to low income homeowners of the village. This lending shall be done
through a low interest lending program. The Committee shall oversee the lending
program and ensure all adopted building codes, lending guidelines, and
repayment programs are enforced.
   (D)   The Committee shall keep a full and accurate written record of its
proceedings and recommendations, submitted as minutes to the Village Clerk for
the official village record. The Committee shall comply with all requirements
for meetings of a public body, as described in the Open Meetings Act, Public
Act 267 of 1876, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., as amended. The current
version of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the conduct of Committee
meetings.
   (E)   Committee members shall be paid $10 for each meeting at which their
attendance is documented. Payment shall be made annually, based on attendance
noted in official minutes on file in the Clerk’s office.
   (F)   This section shall become effective 30 days after legal publication
and in accordance with provisions of the Act governing same.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 9-14-1998)
VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.15 SCOPE, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted the
Village Council under the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and the State Zoning Enabling Act, Public
Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., to establish a Planning
Commission with the powers, duties, and limitations provided by those acts and
subject to the terms and conditions of this subchapter and any future
amendments to this subchapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide that the Village Council
shall hereby confirm the establishment under the State Planning Enabling Act,
Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., of the Village
Planning Commission formerly established under the Municipal Planning Act,
Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq.; to establish the
appointments, terms, and membership of the Planning Commission; to identify the
officers and the minimum number of meetings per year of the Planning
Commission; and to prescribe the authority, powers, and duties of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.16 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Village Council hereby confirms the establishment under the State
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq., of the Village Planning Commission formerly established under the
Municipal Planning Act, Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et
seq.
   (B)   The Village Planning Commission shall have five members.
   (C)   Members of the Village Planning Commission as of the effective date of
this subchapter shall, except for an ex officio member whose remaining term on
the Planning Commission shall be limited to his or her term on the Village
Council, continue to serve for the remainder of their existing terms so long as
they continue to meet all of the eligibility requirements for Planning
Commission membership set forth within the State Planning Enabling Act, Public
Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.17 APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Village President, with the approval of the Village Council, by a
majority vote of the members elected and serving, shall appoint all Planning
Commission members, including the ex officio members.
   (B)   The Planning Commission members, other than an ex officio member,
shall serve for terms of three years each.
   (C)   A Planning Commission member shall hold office until his or her
successor is appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the
same manner as the original appointment.
   (D)   Planning Commission members shall be qualified electors of the
village, except that two Planning Commission members may be individuals who are
not qualified electors of the village. The membership of the Planning
Commission shall be representative of important segments of the community, such
as the economic, governmental, educational, and social development of the
village, in accordance with the major interests as they exist in the village,
such as agriculture, natural resources, recreation, education, public health,
government, transportation, industry, and commerce. The membership shall also
be representative of the entire geography of the village to the extent
practicable.
   (E)   One member of the Village Council shall be appointed to the Planning
Commission as an ex officio member, and not more than one-third of the members
of the Planning Commission may be ex officio members.
   (F)   An ex officio member has full voting rights. An ex officio member’s
term on the Planning Commission shall expire with his or her term on the
Village Council.
   (G)   No other elected officer or employee of the village is eligible to be
a member of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.18 REMOVAL.
   The Village Council may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.19 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a Planning Commission
member may reasonably be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member
shall disclose the potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission.
Failure of a member to disclose a potential conflict of interest as required by
this subchapter constitutes malfeasance in office.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, CONFLICT OF INTEREST is defined as,
and a Planning Commission member shall declare a conflict of interest and
abstain from participating in Planning Commission deliberations and voting on a
request, when:
      (1)   An immediate family member is involved in any request for which the
Planning Commission is asked to make a decision. IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER is
defined as an individual’s father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, or
spouse, or a relative of any degree residing in the same household as that
individual;
      (2)   The Planning Commission member has a business or financial interest
in the property involved in the request or has a business or financial interest
in the applicant’s company, agency, or association;
      (3)   The Planning Commission member owns or has a financial interest in
neighboring property. For purposes of this division (B)(3), a NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY shall include any property falling within the notification radius for
the application or proposed development, as required by the zoning ordinance or
other applicable ordinance; and
      (4)   There is a reasonable appearance of a conflict of interest, as
determined by a majority vote of the remaining members of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.20 COMPENSATION.
   The Planning Commission members may be compensated for their services as
provided by Village Council resolution. The Planning Commission may adopt
bylaws relative to compensation and expenses of its members for travel when
engaged in the performance of activities authorized by the Village Council
including, but not limited to, attendance at conferences, workshops,
educational and training programs, and meetings.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.21 OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Secretary from
its members, and may create and fill other offices as it considers advisable.
   (B)   An ex officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to
serve as Chairperson.
   (C)   The term of each office shall be one year, with opportunity for
reelection as specified in the Planning Commission bylaws.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.22 BYLAWS, MEETINGS, AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least four regular meetings each
year and shall, by resolution, determine the time and place of the meetings.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in the Planning Commission’s bylaws, a
special meeting of the Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or
by two other members, upon written request to the Secretary. Unless the bylaws
otherwise provide, the Secretary shall send written notice of a special meeting
to Planning Commission members at least 48 hours before the meeting.
   (D)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act,
Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., except that the
notice of a special meeting to Planning Commission members shall be at least 48
hours before the meeting.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings, and determinations. A writing prepared, owned, used, in
the possession of, or retained by a Planning Commission in the performance of
an official function shall be made available to the public in compliance with
the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 et seq.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.23 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Planning Commission shall make a report after every meeting to the
Village Council concerning its operations and the status of the planning
activities, including recommendations regarding actions by the Village Council
related to planning and development.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.24 AUTHORITY TO MAKE MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   Under the authority of the State Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33
of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and other applicable planning
statutes, the Planning Commission shall make a Master Plan as a guide for
development within the village’s planning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Final authority to approve a Master Plan or any amendments thereto
shall rest with the Planning Commission unless the Village Council passes a
resolution asserting the right to approve or reject the Master Plan.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.25 ZONING POWERS.
   The Village Council hereby confirms the transfer of all powers, duties, and
responsibilities provided for zoning boards or zoning commissions by: the
former Village Zoning Act, Public Act 207 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271 et
seq.; the State Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq.; or other applicable zoning statutes to the Village Planning
Commission formerly established under the Municipal Planning Act, Public Act
285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.26 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   To further the desirable future development of the village under the Master
Plan, the Village Council, after the Master Plan is adopted, shall prepare or
cause to be prepared by the Village President or by a designated nonelected
administrative official, a capital improvements program of public structures
and improvements, showing those structures and improvements in general order of
their priority, for the following six-year period. The prepared Capital
Improvement Plan, if prepared by someone other than the Village Council, shall
be subject to final approval by the Village Council. The Planning Commission is
hereby exempted from preparing a Capital Improvements Plan.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.27 SUBDIVISION AND LAND DIVISION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Planning Commission may recommend to the Village Council provisions of
an ordinance or rules governing the subdivision of land. Before recommending
such an ordinance or rule, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed ordinance or rule. The Planning Commission shall give notice of
the time and place of the public hearing not less than 15 days before the
hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village. The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendation on a
proposed plat before action thereon by the Village Council under the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. Before
making its recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed plat. A plat submitted to the Planning Commission shall contain
the name and address of the proprietor or other person to whom notice of a
hearing shall be sent. Not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing,
notice of the date, time, and place of the hearing shall be sent to that person
at that address by mail and shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of
land immediately adjoining the proposed platted land.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 31.28 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter took effect on the date of its publication, December 21,
2011.
(Ord. 2011-2, passed 12-19-2011)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Fire Department service charges
   
32.02   Property placed in village custody
   
32.03   Sale of village owned real property
§ 32.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to protect the village from incurring extraordinary
expenses resulting from the utilization of the Fire Department’s resources to
respond to an incident involving hazardous materials, the Village Council
authorizes the imposition of charges to recover reasonable and actual costs
incurred by the Fire Department in responding to calls for assistance in
connection with a hazardous materials release.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Includes, but is not limited to, a chemical that is
a combustible liquid, a flammable gas, explosive, flammable, an organic
peroxide, an oxidizer, pyrophoric, unstable reactive, or water reactive.
      RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the environment.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity,
or any other legal entity that is responsible for a release of a hazardous
material, either actual or threatened, or is an owner, tenant, occupant, or
party in control of property onto which or from which hazardous materials
release.
   (C)   Charges imposed upon responsible party. When the Fire Department
responds to a call for assistance in connection with a hazardous materials
release, actual costs incurred by the Fire Department responding to such a call
shall be imposed upon responsible parties including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Three hundred dollars per hour, or fraction thereof, for each unit
required, in the opinion of the officer in command, to stand by at the
hazardous material incident. For each hour, or fraction thereof, that the pumps
are activated, an additional sum of $100 per hour shall be charged;
      (2)   A $15 per hour, per firefighter, or fraction thereof, in the
opinion of the officer in command, to be utilized in responding to the
hazardous materials incident;
      (3)   All personnel-related costs incurred by the Fire Department as a
result of responding to the hazardous materials incident. Such costs may
include, but are not limited to, wages, salaries, and fringe benefits and
insurance for full-time and part-time firefighters, full-time and part-time
municipal employees, and elected officials acting in their official capacity,
overtime pay and related fringe benefit costs for hourly employees, and fire
run fees paid to on-call firefighters. Such personnel-related charges shall
commence after the first hour that the Fire Department has responded to the
hazardous materials incident, and continue until all personnel have concluded
hazardous materials incident-related responsibilities;
      (4)   Other expenses incurred by the Fire Department in responding to the
hazardous materials incident including, but not limited to, rental or purchase
of machinery, equipment, labor, consultants, legal and engineering fees,
medical and hospitalization costs, and the replacement costs related to any
contaminated equipment, extinguishing agents, supplies, water purchased from
municipal water systems, and meals and refreshments for personnel while
responding to the hazardous materials incident;
      (5)   Charges to the Fire Department imposed by any local, state, or
federal government entities related to the hazardous materials incident; and
      (6)   Costs incurred in accounting for all hazardous material incident-
related expenditures, including all bill and collection costs.
   (D)   Billing procedures.
      (1)   Following the conclusion of the hazardous materials incident, the
Fire Chief shall prepare a detailed listing of all known expenses and invoice
the responsible party for payment. The invoice shall demand full payment within
30 days of receipt of the bill.
      (2)   Any additional expenses that shall become known to the Fire Chief
following the transmittal of the bill to the responsible parties shall be
billed in the same manner on a subsequent bill to the responsible party. For
any amounts due that remain unpaid after 30 days, the Fire Department shall
impose a late charge of 1% per month, or fraction thereof.
   (E)   Other remedies. The village may pursue any other remedy, or may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding, in a court of competent
jurisdiction, to collect any charges imposed under this section. The recovery
of charges imposed under this section does not limit liability of responsible
parties under local ordinance or state or federal law, rule, or regulation.
   (F)   Effective date. This section took effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 2-10-1997)
§ 32.02 PROPERTY PLACED IN VILLAGE CUSTODY.
   (A)   No person shall leave or cause to be left any property within the
custody of the village or upon any premises owned or controlled by the village
except by the express consent of the village or in compliance with any
ordinance of the village or with any other applicable law. No person shall fail
to claim any property belonging to any such person which comes into the
possession of the village.
   (B)   For any and all property placed in the custody of the village in
violation of division (A) above, or otherwise, including lost, stolen,
abandoned, or other property surrendered to any agent of the village, or
recovered by any agent of the village, the village is hereby authorized to
charge a reasonable fee for services rendered in the safe keeping of said
property. Said fees shall not exceed the sum of $10 per week, plus all other
expenses incurred in moving, packaging, storing, or otherwise safekeeping of
said property.
   (C)   The Police Department of the village shall have custody of said
property; providing, however, that property coming into possession of the
village may, at the discretion of the Village Council, remain in the custody of
any other department of the village. Said property shall be surrendered to the
true owner or last lawful possessor upon proper proof thereof and upon payment
of the charges as provided herein; provided, however, that nothing contained
herein shall be construed as obligating release of property being held as
evidence or pursuant to court order.
   (D)   If any article is not claimed and charges paid within six months from
the date the village first acquired custody, the Police Department of the
village may proceed to sell the article in the manner set forth for sale
procedure below. If no bids are received for the purchase of any property, it
shall be conclusively presumed that said property is of no value and it shall
be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as directed by the Village Council, by a
resolution to be passed by the Village Council for said purpose. Proceeds of
said sale shall be applied as provided by law, the first of said proceeds shall
be used to reimburse the village for the expenses of said sale and charges for
storage and other services rendered by the village; the excess, if any, over
such items, shall be paid to the owner or person entitled to possession upon
proof thereof, and in the absence of such proof, said excess shall be credited
to the General Fund of the village.
   (E)   All items sold pursuant to the provisions of division (D) above shall
be sold at public auction in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   Prior to any auction sale, the Village Clerk shall post a notice
thereof in the Village Hall and shall publish a notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village at least one week prior to said sale.
      (2)   Said notice shall describe any money recovered or held and also any
other property recovered and held, together with the time and place of public
sale at which said other property may be purchased by the highest bidder. Said
highest bidder shall receive a bill of sale for the property bought from the
village.
      (3)   Until the date of said sale, the property may be claimed at the
Village Hall upon the terms and conditions set forth in this section and the
sale shall be cancelled insofar as such property is concerned.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to motor vehicles which come into the
possession of the village. Before any sale of any item is held provided for in
this section, the Chief of Police of the village shall inspect each item to be
sold and shall determine whether any of the items to be sold has a probable
resale value of in excess of $200. If the Chief of Police shall certify that
any item to be sold has a probable resale value of more than $200, said item
shall not be sold or disposed of without a resolution specifically authorizing
the sale as to any such item being passed by the Village Council.
   (G)   The Police Department of the village shall keep records of fees
charged and paid, property redeemed by payment of charges, property sold, sale
proceeds, and all other financial matters pertaining to property in its custody
or otherwise in the custody of the village and provided for in this section.
   (H)   The said provisions of this section shall not apply to property being
disposed of pursuant to the discretion or order of any court or magistrate, or
to motor vehicles, or to contraband or other forfeited property, where other
statutory sale procedures are provided, or to property covered by the
provisions of other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 1976-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.03 SALE OF VILLAGE OWNED REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 67.4, the Village hereby authorizes the sale of
real property owned by the village.
   (B)   Any real property owned by the village, excluding any part of a public
park, may be sold by public sale. The sale may be by sealed bids or a public
auction, as determined by the Village Council. The notice of sale by sealed
bids or pubic auction shall meet the requirements set for §
32.02. By resolution authorizing the sale of such real property, the Village
Council shall establish an amount to be deposited with the Village Clerk and
such other evidence that the bidder can close the transaction, as the Village
Council may determine. The Village Council may hold the deposits of up to three
bidders until the time of closing to ensure that the property will be sold.
   (C)   When determined to be in the best interest of the village, the Council
may sell any real property, excluding land designated as a public park, by
private sale. The Village Council may sell the property and establish the terms
and conditions, including the asking price for the property, in a commercially
reasonable manner. In determining a proposed selling price, the Village Council
is hereby authorized to rely upon the opinion of its assessor, a licensed real
estate broker, or some other person the Council believes has sufficient
expertise to provide an unbiased and knowledgeable opinion as to the fair
market value of the property being sold by the village.
(Ord. 2024-3, passed 2-19-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE COLLECTION AND RECYCLING
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Collection of water and sewer bills
§ 50.01 COLLECTION OF WATER AND SEWER BILLS.
   The water and wastewater service rates, fees, charges and polices set forth
in Res. 2015-4, passed 9-21-2015 are incorporated by references as if appearing
in total.
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE COLLECTION AND RECYCLING
Section
Garbage
   
51.01   Establishment
   
51.02   License required
   
51.03   Payment
   
51.04   Containers
   
51.05   Weekly pickup
   
51.06   Can/container capacity and durability
   
51.07   Licenses; applications; fees; additional requirements
   
51.08   Sanitation Commissioner
   
51.09   Service fees
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GARBAGE
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a garbage and trash collection service for the
residents of the village.
(Ord. 21, passed - -)
§ 51.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A license is no longer required.
§ 51.03 PAYMENT.
   Water, sewer, and sanitation utility rates and penalties will be reviewed
annually and set by motion and majority vote of the Village Council.
(Ord. 2000-7, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 51.04 CONTAINERS.
   Every applicant shall furnish, for his or her own use, suitable and proper
containers for all garbage and trash, rubbish and ashes, and all garbage
containers shall have covers and be kept covered; the customer shall place his
or her containers of garbage and/or trash at the edge of the street, alley, or
at the curb in front of his or her premises on the day same it is to be picked
up by the collector and at a time previous to the time designated for the
arrival of the collector and after such containers have been emptied by the
collector the customer shall promptly remove said containers from the street;
any person who, because of physical disability, age, or infirmity, is unable to
place such containers at the curb or street may make special arrangements
direct with the collector for the movement of such containers.
(Ord. 21, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 WEEKLY PICKUP.
   The collector shall pick up garbage, trash, rubbish, and ashes once each
week. Each customer shall be notified at the time application is made for
service as to the day and time, within reasonable limits, that the collector
will service his or her premises, and any changes made thereafter by the
collector shall be so communicated by him or her to the customer.
(Ord. 21, passed - -)
§ 51.06 CAN/CONTAINER CAPACITY AND DURABILITY.
   All containers furnished by the customer as containers for garbage or trash
shall be of substantial construction strong enough to hold and contain, when
handled, the contents of such containers. Garbage cans shall not exceed 20-
gallon capacity and containers for trash and rubbish shall not exceed 26-gallon
capacity.
(Ord. 21, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 LICENSES; APPLICATIONS; FEES; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applications for licenses to pick up, collect, and transport
garbage, trash, or rubbish shall be made to the Village Clerk. Applicants shall
state their name, address, type of license desired, description of equipment to
be used, and location of disposal area for garbage, trash, and rubbish
collected by applicant. All applications for licenses shall be referred by the
Village Clerk to the Sanitation Commissioner who, in conjunction with the Chief
of Police, will cause an investigation to be made and make recommendations to
the Village Council as to the granting or rejecting of the license for said
applicant. The Village Council shall consider the recommendations of the
Sanitation Commissioner in conjunction with the Chief of Police, and shall
approve or reject the granting of all licenses under this subchapter.
Application for licenses may be rejected by the Village Council, or licenses
already granted may be revoked by the Village Council, for the following
reasons:
      (1)   Improper, unsanitary, or lack of equipment, conveyances, or
vehicles used to transport said garbage, trash, or rubbish;
      (2)   Unsatisfactory or unsanitary disposal areas; and
      (3)   Inability or failure to comply with the terms and provisions of
rules and regulations relating to garbage, trash, and rubbish pickup and
disposal as may be adopted from time to time by the Village Council.
   (B)   No license shall be granted by the Village Council to any applicant
unless the conveyance or vehicle to be used by the applicant to pick up and
transport any rubbish, trash, or garbage. All conveyances or vehicles used to
transport rubbish, trash, or garbage shall be equipped with tailgates.
   (C)   Applicants and licenses shall be required to have their vehicles or
conveyances equipped with covering, permanent or temporary, as to prevent
trash, rubbish, or garbage from blowing or falling off the conveyances while
being transported.
   (D)   In addition to the qualifications and requirements stated elsewhere in
this subchapter, all garbage licenses shall be required to meet the following
additional requirements.
      (1)   All garbage licensees shall be required to transport garbage within
the village in a motor truck.
      (2)   All garbage licensees shall be required to have said motor truck or
trucks equipped with a leak-proof metal box or container to hold and contain
all garbage collected, and said metal box shall not be less than 300 cubic feet
in capacity.
      (3)   All garbage licensees shall be required to have a garbage disposal
area located outside the corporational limits of the village, and shall be
required to operate and maintain said garbage disposal area in a manner such as
not to constitute a legal nuisance.
      (4)   All garbage licensees shall be required to keep said motor truck or
trucks in a clean and sanitary condition by washing same after each day of
garbage collection by means of a pressure hose. All trucks used by garbage
licensee shall be repainted at least once each year.
      (5)   All trucks licensed to hold garbage in the village shall be
designated “Village Garbage Truck” by a proper sign on such truck plainly
visible to the public showing the village license number and with letters not
less than four inches in height.
      (6)   All garbage licensees shall be required to prepare and file with
the Village Clerk, before picking up and transporting any garbage, a collection
and route to be covered on said dates. Such schedule as filed shall be adhered
to by each garbage licensee.
(Ord. 21, passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 SANITATION COMMISSIONER.
   There is hereby established the office of Sanitation Commissioner. The
Sanitation Commissioner shall be appointed by the President and his or her
appointment be approved by the Village Council. Sanitation Commissioner shall
hold office at the pleasure of the President, and shall receive no
compensation. It shall be the duty of the Sanitation Commissioner to supervise
all licensees who are licensed to pick up and collect garbage, trash, and
rubbish within the village. The Sanitation Commissioner shall make inspections
from time to time of the equipment, facilities, and conveyances used by the
various licensees to collect and dispose of garbage, trash, and rubbish within
and from the village. The Sanitation Commissioner shall investigate all
complaints received on the manner or method of collecting garbage, trash, and
rubbish by the licensees under this subchapter. The Sanitation Commissioner
shall report all violations by licensees of the provisions of this subchapter
to the Village Council. The Sanitation Commissioner shall make recommendations
from time to time to the Council for the improvement of trash, garbage, and
rubbish collection service within the village. All applications for licensees
under the provisions of this subchapter shall be referred by the Village Clerk
to the Sanitation Commissioner, and the Sanitation Commissioner shall, in
conjunction with the Chief of Police, make a thorough investigation of said
applicant to determine whether he or she is able to meet the requirements of
this subchapter, and shall make a report of his or her investigation along with
his or her recommendation to the Village Council.
(Ord. 21, passed - -)
§ 51.09 SERVICE FEES.
   Village collection service fees are hereby established as follows.
 
Type                    Charge
Commercial and business Shall deal directly with the contractor
Residential users       $12.50 for the first can
                        $7.50 for the second can
 
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 11-9-1981; Ord. 1997-1, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates §§
51.01 through
51.09 shall be subject to a fine of a sum not to exceed $100 or imprisonment,
not to exceed 90 days, or both, in the discretion of the court, together with
the cost of prosecution for each violation of §§
51.01 through
51.09, and in the event that the offender fails to pay any fine imposed or the
cost of prosecution, or both, he or she may be imprisoned for any time not
exceeding 90 days unless payment thereof be sooner made.
(Ord. 21, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Groundwater protection
   
52.02   Drilling wells
Use Regulations
   
52.15   Construction of water system
   
52.16   Estimate of cost
   
52.17   Borrow; bonds
   
52.18   Operation; repair; management
   
52.19   Charges; fees
   
52.20   Free service
   
52.21   Rates; expenses; upkeep; maintenance
   
52.22   Operating year
   
52.23   Revenues
   
52.24   Transfers between funds
   
52.25   Investments; sale of bonds
   
52.26   Maintaining the system; book of records and accounts; insurance
   
52.27   Additional bonds
   
52.28   Village Clerk authorized to issue and sell bonds
   
52.29   Publication
   
52.30   Fluoridation
   
52.31   Cross-connections
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Artificial bodies of water, see §
150.07
   Land usage, general provisions, see
Chapter 150
   Sewer, see
Chapter 53
   Utilities generally, see
Chapter 50
   Zoning, adopted by reference, see §
150.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 GROUNDWATER PROTECTION.
   The Village Council hereby commits to the development and implementation of
a local Wellhead Protection Program within three years after the grant
application is submitted to the MDEQ.
(Ord. 2000-5, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 52.02 DRILLING WELLS.
   (A)   No wells of any kind shall be drilled, from the effective date of this
section forward, within the village without a permit issued by the village
through the Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any permit by the Village Clerk’s office, the
site for any well drilling after the effective date of this section shall be
approved by the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Ord. 1994-5, passed 10-10-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 CONSTRUCTION OF WATER SYSTEM.
   The Village Council hereby determines it to be necessary for, and to secure
the public health, safety, convenience, and welfare of said village to acquire
and construct a water supply and distribution system for the village,
consisting of the necessary wells, distribution mains, pumps, tanks, fire
hydrants, meters, and other necessary appurtenances thereto, in accordance with
detailed maps, plans, specifications, and estimates heretofore prepared by R.W.
Petrie, consulting engineer of Benton Harbor, Michigan, all as authorized by
the electors of the village at the general election held in said village on
April 4, 1949.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.16 ESTIMATE OF COST.
   The Village Council has caused an estimate to be made of the cost of said
water supply and distribution system by the consulting engineer, R.W. Petrie,
and it is hereby determined that the total estimated cost of such system,
including engineering, financial, and legal expenses and capitalized interest
to and including January 1, 1954, is the sum of $130,000, and the period of
usefulness of said proposed improvements is estimated to be 50 years.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.17 BORROW; BONDS.
   (A)   (1)   To pay the cost of acquiring and constructing such water supply
and distribution system, including the payment of engineering, financial,
legal, and other expenses incident thereto and incident to the issuance of said
bonds, including interest on said bonds to and including January 1, 1954, it is
hereby determined that the village shall borrow the sum of $130,000, and that
revenue bonds be issued therefor under the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, as amended.
      (2)   Wherever the words THE SYSTEM or SYSTEM are used in this subchapter
they shall be understood to mean the complete water supply and distribution
system of the village, acquired under the provisions of this subchapter and all
extensions and improvements hereafter constructed.
      (3)   Wherever the words REVENUES and NET REVENUES are used in this
subchapter, they shall be understood to have the meaning as defined in Public
Act 94 of 1933, § 3, as amended.
   (B)   (1)   Said bonds shall be designated water supply system revenue
bonds, and shall be, not general obligations of the village, but revenue bonds,
payable out of the net revenues of the system after provision has been made for
payment of expenses of operation and shall consist of 130 bonds of $1,000 each,
numbered in direct order of maturity form 1 to 130, inclusive, dated July 1,
1952, and payable serially as follows:
         (a)   Two thousand dollars January 1 of each of the years 1956 to
1965, inclusive;
         (b)   Three thousand dollars January 1 of each of the years 1966 to
1975, inclusive;
         (c)   Four thousand dollars January 1 of each of the years 1976 to
1980, inclusive;
         (d)   Five thousand dollars January 1 of each of the years 1981 to
1986, inclusive; and
         (e)   Six thousand dollars January 1 of each of the years 1987 to
1991, inclusive.
      (2)   Said bonds to bear interest at a rate or rates not exceeding 4% per
annum, payable on January 1, 1953, and semiannually thereafter on July 1 and
January 1 of each year, both principal and interest to be payable in lawful
money of the United States of America at a bank or trust company to be
designated by the purchaser of the bonds.
      (3)   Outstanding bonds of this issue may be called for redemption prior
to maturity, at the option of the village, in inverse numerical order, on any
interest payment date on or after January 1, 1958, at par and accrued interest
plus a premium as follows:
         (a)   Forty dollars on each bond called for redemption on or before
January 1, 1963;
         (b)   Thirty dollars on each bond called for redemption after January
1, 1963, but on or before January 1, 1968;
         (c)   Twenty dollars on each bond called for redemption after January
1, 1968, but on or before January 1, 1973;
         (d)   Ten dollars on each bond called for redemption after January 1,
1973, but on or before January 1, 1978;
         (e)   Five dollars on each bond called for redemption after January 1,
1978, but on or before January 1, 1983; and
         (f)   No premiums shall be paid on bonds called for redemption after
January 1, 1983.
      (4)   (a)   Thirty-days’ notice of the call of any bonds for redemption
shall be given by publication in a paper circulated in the state which carries,
as part of its regular service, notices of sale of municipal bonds, and, in
case of registered bonds, 30 days’ notice shall be given by mail to the
registered address.
         (b)   Bonds so called for redemption shall not bear interest after the
date fixed for redemption, provided funds are on hand with the paying agent to
redeem said bonds.
      (5)   Said bonds may be registered as to principal only in the manner and
with the effect set forth on the face thereof, as hereinafter provided.
      (6)   Said bonds shall be signed by the President and countersigned by
the Village Clerk, and shall have interest coupons attached bearing the
facsimile signature of the Village Treasurer.
   (C)   Said bonds and the attached coupons shall not be a general obligation
or indebtedness of the village, but shall be payable solely from the net
revenues derived from the operation of the system; and, to secure such payment,
there is hereby created a statutory first lien upon the whole of the net
revenues of said system, to continue until the payment in full of the principal
and interest on said bonds.
   (D)   (1)   The holder or holders of said bonds or coupons representing in
the aggregate not less than 20% of the entire issue than outstanding may,
either at law or in equity, by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings,
protect and enforce the statutory first lien upon the revenues of said system
and may by suit, action, mandamus, or other proceedings, enforce and compel
performance of all duties of the officers of the village, including the fixing
of sufficient rates, the collection of revenues, the proper segregation of the
revenues of the system, and the proper application thereof; provided, however,
that the statutory lien upon said revenues shall not be construed to compel the
sale of the system.
      (2)   If there be any default in the payment of the principal of or
interest upon any of said bonds, any court having jurisdiction in any proper
action may appoint a receiver to administer and operate said system on behalf
of the village, and under the direction of said court, and by an with the
approval of said court to perform all of the duties of the officials of said
village, more particularly set forth herein and in Public Act 94 of 1933, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, as amended.
      (3)   The holder or holders of any such bonds or any coupons therefrom
shall have all other rights and remedies given by said Public Act 94 of 1933,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, as amended, for the collection and
enforcement of said bonds and the security therefor.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.18 OPERATION; REPAIR; MANAGEMENT.
   The operation, repair, and management of the system, and the acquiring of
the project herein authorized shall be under the immediate supervision and
control of the Village Council.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.19 CHARGES; FEES.
   (A)   All utility rates and charges will be reviewed annually in the month
of January and set by resolution and majority vote of the Village Council.
   (B)   Resolution 2015-4, passed on 9-21-2015 addressing water and wastewater
rates, fees, charges and policies is incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 8-27-2014)
§ 52.20 FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished by said system to any person, firm, or
corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.21 RATES; EXPENSES; UPKEEP; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for
the payment of the expenses of administration and operation and such expenses
for maintenance of the said system as are necessary to preserve the same in
good repair and working order, to provide for the payment of the interest upon
and the principal of all the bonds as and when the same become due and payable,
and the creation of the reserve thereof required by this subchapter, and to
provide for such other expenditures and funds for said system as this
subchapter may require.
   (B)   Such rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time as may be
necessary to produce these amounts, and it is hereby covenanted and agreed at
all times to fix and maintain such rates for services furnished by the system
as shall be sufficient to provide for the foregoing.
   (C)   Resolution 2015-4, passed on 9-21-2015 addressing water and wastewater
rates, fees, charges and policies is incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.22 OPERATING YEAR.
   The system shall be operated on the basis of an operating year commencing on
March 1 and ending on February 28.
(Ord. 201, passed - -; Ord. 1978-1, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 52.23 REVENUES.
   (A)   Receiving Fund. The revenues of the system are hereby ordered to be
set aside, as collected, and deposited in a bank duly qualified to do business
in the state, in an account to be designated Water Supply System Receiving Fund
(hereinafter referred to as the “Receiving Fund”), and said revenues so
deposited are pledged for the purpose of the following funds and shall be
transferred from the Receiving Fund periodically in the manner and at the times
hereinafter specified.
   (B)   Operation and Maintenance Fund.
      (1)   Out of the revenues in the Receiving Fund there shall be first set
aside, quarterly, into a separate depositary account designated Operation and
Maintenance Fund, a sum sufficient to provide for the payment of the next
quarter’s current expenses of administration and operation of the system and
such current expenses for the maintenance thereof as may be necessary to
preserve the same in good repair and working order.
      (2)   The Village Council, prior to the commencement of each operating
year, shall adopt a budget covering the foregoing expenses for each year, and
such total expenses shall not exceed the total amount specified in said budget,
except by a vote of two-thirds of the members of the Village Council.
   (C)   Bond and Interest Redemption Fund.
      (1)   There shall next be established and maintained a separate
depository account designated as the Bond and Interest Redemption Fund, which
shall be used solely for the purpose of paying the principal of, and the
interest upon, the bonds hereby authorized. The monies in the Bond and Interest
Redemption Fund (including the Bond Reserve Account hereinafter established)
shall be kept on deposit with the bank or trust company where the principal and
interest on the bonds herein authorized are currently payable.
      (2)   Out of the revenue remaining in the Receiving Fund, after provision
has been made for expenses of operation and maintenance of the system, there
shall next be set aside, quarterly, in the Bond and Interest Redemption Fund, a
sum proportionately sufficient to provide for the payment of the principal of,
and interest upon, all outstanding bonds payable from the revenues of the
system, as and when the same become due and payable. The amount so set aside
for interest each quarter during the first six months of each operating year
shall not be less than one-half of the total amount of interest maturing on the
following July 1, and during the last six months of each operating period shall
be not less than one-half of the total amount of interest maturing on the
following January 1. The amount so set aside for principal during each quarter
during each operating year, commencing January 1, 1955, shall be not less than
one-fourth of the amount of principal maturing on the January 1 following such
operating year. If there shall be any deficiency in the amount previously
required to be set aside, then the amount of such deficiency shall be added to
the current requirements.
      (3)   There is hereby established in the Bond and Interest Redemption
Fund a separate account, to be known as the Bond Reserve Account, into which
there shall be paid, quarterly, all of the revenues of the system, after
provision has been made for the Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Bond and
Interest Redemption Fund, until such time as there has been accumulated in said
Bond Reserve Account the sum of $7,400, which Bond Reserve Account shall be
established in the full amount herein required not later than the close of the
operating year commencing January 1, 1956. The money in the said Bond Reserve
Account shall be used solely for the payment of the principal and interest on
said bonds as to which there would otherwise be default.
      (4)   If, at any time, it shall be necessary to use monies in the Bond
Reserve Account for such payment, then the monies so used shall be replaced
from the net revenues first received thereafter which are not required by this
subchapter to be used for operation and maintenance or for current principal
and interest requirements: provided, however, that such Bond Reserve Account
shall not be regarded as monies otherwise appropriated or pledged for the
purpose of determining the sufficiency of funds available for redemption of
callable bonds.
      (5)   No further payments need to be made into the Bond and Interest
Redemption Fund after enough of the bonds have been retired so that the amount
then held in said Fund (including the Bond Reserve Account) is equal to the
entire amount of principal and interest which will be payable at the time of
maturity of all the bonds then remaining outstanding.
   (D)   Replacement Fund.
      (1)   There shall next be established and maintained a separate
depository account designated as the Replacement Fund, which shall be used
solely for the purpose of making unforeseen major repairs and replacements to
the system which may become necessary. There shall be deposited into said
account, in quarterly installments, after providing for all requirements for
all requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Bond and
Interest Redemption Fund (including the Bond Reserve Account), all of the
revenues of said system until such Fund shall total $5,000. If, at any time, it
shall be necessary to use monies in said Fund for such purpose, the monies so
used shall be replaced from the net revenues in the Receiving Fund which are
not required by this subchapter to be used for the Operation and Maintenance
Fund or the Bond and Interest Redemption Fund (including the Bond Reserve
Account).
      (2)   Monies remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end of any operating
year, after full satisfaction of the foregoing requirements, shall be
transferred to the Bond and Interest Redemption Fund and used for the purpose
of calling bonds of this issue prior to maturity at the times and at the prices
hereinbefore set forth. All monies from time to time in the Bond and Interest
Redemption Fund over and above the current requirements of said fund required
by law and this subchapter, and the Bond Reserve Account, may be used to call
bonds for redemption prior to maturity, and shall be so used when such funds
total $10,000 or more; provided, however, that if there be any deficit in the
Operation and Maintenance Fund, Bond and Interest Redemption Fund (including
the Bond Reserve Account), or the Replacement Fund by reason of defaults in
setting aside the amounts hereinbefore required, then transfers shall be made
from the surplus remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end of any operating
year, to such funds, in the order named to the extent of such deficit.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.24 TRANSFERS BETWEEN FUNDS.
   In the event the monies in the Receiving Fund are sufficient to provide for
the current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund or the Bond and
Interest Redemption Fund, any monies and/or securities in other funds of the
system shall be transferred, first, to the Operation and Maintenance Fund, and
second, to the Bond and Interest Redemption Fund to the extent of any deficit
therein.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.25 INVESTMENTS; SALE OF BONDS.
   (A)   Monies in the Bond and Interest Redemption Fund over and above those
being accumulated for the payment of principal and interest next maturing and
monies in any other fund, except the Receiving Fund and the Operation and
Maintenance Fund, may be invested in obligations of the United States of
America. In the event such investments are made, the securities representing
the same shall be kept on deposit with the bank or trust company having on
deposit the fund or funds from which such purchase was made. Income received
from such investments shall be credited to the fund from which said investments
were made.
   (B)   Said bonds shall be sold and the proceeds applied in accordance with
the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through
141.138, as amended.
   (C)   (1)   The proceeds of the sale of the bonds authorized to be issued
shall be deposited in Farmers and Merchants National Bank in Benton Harbor,
Michigan, a Federal Reserve System member bank. Out of such proceeds, there
shall first be deposited in the Bond and Interest Redemption Fund any accrued
interest and an amount sufficient to pay the interest on the bonds for the
period for which it was capitalized, to wit, one and one-half years. The
balance of such proceeds shall be applied solely in payment of the cost of the
project hereinbefore described and any engineering, financial, legal, and other
expenses incident thereto and to the financing thereof. Payments for
construction, either on account or otherwise, shall not be made unless the
registered engineer in charge of such work shall file with the Village Council
a signed statement that the work has been completed in accordance with the
plans and specifications therefor, that it was done pursuant to and in
accordance with the contract therefor, and that such work is entirely
satisfactory.
      (2)   Any unexpended balance of the proceeds of sale remaining, after
completion of the project herein authorized may, in the discretion of the
Village Council, and to the extent of $19,500, be used for further
improvements, enlargements, and extensions to the system, provided that at the
time of such expenditure, such use be approved by the Municipal Finance
Commission. Any remaining balance after such expenditure shall be paid into the
Bond and Interest Redemption Fund and shall be used for the redemption of
callable bonds, or prior to the first call date only, purchasing bonds on the
open market at not more than the fair market value thereof, and at a price in
any event not exceeding the first call price.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.26 MAINTAINING THE SYSTEM; BOOK OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS; INSURANCE.
   The village covenants and agrees with the successive holders of the bonds
and coupons that, so long as any of the bonds remain outstanding and unpaid as
to either principal or interest, the village will do as follows.
   (A)   The village will maintain the system in good repair and working order
and will operate the same efficiently and will faithfully and punctually
perform all duties with reference to the system required by the Constitution
and laws of the state, including the making and collecting of sufficient rates
for water services rendered by the system, and the segregation and application
of the revenues of the system in the manner provided in this subchapter. The
initial schedule of rates herein established will not be reduced in any event
until such time as the Bond Reserve Account is established in its full required
amount, and bonds maturing in the years 1985 to 1991, have been retired.
   (B)   The Village Council will maintain and keep proper books of records and
account, separate from all other records and accounts, in which shall be made
full and correct entries of all transactions relating to the system. Not later
than three months after the close of each operating year, the Village Council
will cause to be prepared, on forms furnished by the Municipal Finance
Commission, if such forms be available, a statement in reasonable detail, sworn
to by its Chief Accounting Officer, showing the cash income and disbursements
of the system during each operating year, the assets and liabilities of the
system at the beginning and close of the fiscal year, and such other
information as is necessary to enable any taxpayer of the village, user of the
service furnished, or any holder or owner of the bonds or anyone acting in
their behalf, to be fully informed as to all manners pertaining to the
financial operation of the system during such year. A certified copy of such
statement shall be filed with the Municipal Finance Commission, and such
statement and books of record and account shall at all reasonable times be open
to inspection by any taxpayer of the village, user of the service or holder or
holders of any bonds or anyone acting in their behalf. The Village Council will
also cause an annual audit of such books of record and account for the
preceding operating year to be made by a recognized independent certified
public accountant, and will make such audit available to the holders of any of
the bonds. Such audit shall be completed and so made available not later than
three months after the close of each operating year.
   (C)   The village will maintain and carry, for the benefit of the holders of
the bonds, insurance on all physical properties of the system, of the kinds and
in the amounts normally carried by public utility companies and municipalities
engaged in the operation of water supply systems. All monies received for
losses under any such insurance policies shall be applied solely to the
replacement and restoration of the property damaged or destroyed, and to the
extent not so used, shall be used for the purpose of calling bonds.
   (D)   The village will not sell, lease, or dispose of the system, or any
substantial part thereof, until all of the bonds have been paid in full, both
as to principal and interest. The village, further, will cause the operation of
the system to be carried on as economically as possible, will cause to be made
to the system, all repairs and replacements necessary to keep the same in good
repair and working order and will not do or suffer to be done any act which
would affect the system in such a way as to impair or affect unfavorably the
security of the bonds.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.27 ADDITIONAL BONDS.
   (A)   The right is reserved, in accordance with the provisions of Public Act
94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, as amended, to issue
additional bonds payable from the revenues of the system, which shall be of
equal standing with the bonds herein authorized for the following purposes and
on the following conditions and limitations: for completion of the project in
accordance with the plans and specifications therefor; and such bonds shall not
be authorized unless R.W. Petrie, or his or her successor engineer in charge of
construction, shall execute a certificate evidencing the fact that additional
funds are needed to complete the project in accordance with the plans and
specifications therefor. If such certificate shall be so executed and filed
with the Village Clerk, it shall be the duty of the Village Council to provide
for and issue additional revenue bonds in the amount stated in said certificate
to be necessary to complete the project in accordance with the plans and
specifications. Except, as herein authorized, no additional bonds having equal
standing with the bonds of this issue, shall be authorized as issued.
   (B)   Said bonds shall be in substantially the following form:
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
COUNTY OF BERRIEN
VILLAGE OF EAU CLAIRE
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM REVENUE BOND
No. _____   $1,000.00
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the VILLAGE OF EAU CLAIRE, County of
Berrien, State of Michigan, for value received, hereby promises to pay to the
bearer, or if registered, to the registered holder hereof, but only out of the
revenues of the Water Supply System of the Village, including all
appurtenances, extensions and improvements thereto, the sum of
ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
on the first day of January, A.D. 20__, with interest thereof from the date
hereof until paid at the rate of ____ per cent per annum, payable on January 1,
1953, and semiannually thereafter on the first day of July and January of each
year, on presentation and surrender of the proper interest coupons hereto
annexed as they severally become due. Both principal of and interest on this
bond are payable in lawful money of the United States of America at
____________________ and, for the prompt payment thereof, the gross revenues of
the Water Supply System of the Village of Eau Claire, including all
appurtenances, extensions and improvements thereto, after provisions has been
made for reasonable and necessary expenses of operation, administration and
maintenance are hereby irrevocably pledged and a statutory first lien thereon
is hereby created.
   This bond is one of a series of one hundred thirty (130) bonds of even date
and like tenor except as to date of maturity __________ aggregating the sum of
$130,000.00, issued pursuant to Ordinance No. _____, duly adopted by the
Village Council on __________ 1952, and under and in full compliance with the
Constitution and statutes of the State of Michigan, including specifically Act
94, Public Acts of Michigan, 1933, as amended, for the purpose of paying the
cost of acquiring and constructing a water supply and distribution System for
the Village.
   For a complete statement of the revenues from which, and the conditions
under which this bond is payable, a statement of the conditions under which
additional bonds of equal standing may hereafter be issued, and the general
covenants and provisions pursuant to which this bond is issued, reference is
made to the above-described Ordinance.
   Outstanding bonds of this issue may be called for redemption prior to
maturity, at the option of the Village, in inverse numerical order, on any
interest payment date on or before January 1, 1958, at par and accrued interest
plus a premium as follows:
$40.00 on each bond called for redemption on or before January 1, 1963.
$30.00 on each bond called for redemption after January 1, 1963, but on or
before January 1, 1968.
$20.00 on each bond called for redemption after January 1, 1968, but on or
before January 1, 1973.
$10.00 on each bond called for redemption after January 1, 1973, but on or
before January 1, 1978.
$5.00 on each bond called for redemption after January 1, 1978, but on or
before January 1, 1983.
No premium shall be paid on bonds called for redemption after January 1, 1983.
   Thirty-days’ notice of the call of any bonds for redemption shall be given
by publication in a paper circulated in the State of Michigan which carries, as
part of its regular service, notices of sale of municipal bonds, and, in case
of registered bonds, 30-days’ notice shall be given by mail to the registered
address. Bonds so called for redemption shall not bear interest after the date
fixed for redemption, provided funds are on hand with the paying agent to
redeem said bonds.
   This bond is a self-liquidating bond, and is not a general obligation of the
Village of Eau Claire, and does not constitute an indebtedness of the Village
of Eau Claire within any constitutional or statutory limitation, and is
payable, both as to principal and interest, solely from the revenues of the
Water Supply System of the Village. The principal and interest on this bond are
secured by the statutory lien hereinbefore mentioned.
   The Village of Eau Claire hereby covenants and agrees to fix and maintain,
at all times, while any of such bonds shall be outstanding, such rates for
service furnish by said Water Supply System as shall be sufficient to provide
for payment on the interest upon and the principal of all such bonds as and
when the same become due and payable, to create a Bond and Interest Redemption
Fund (including a Bond Reserve Account) therefor, to provide for the payment of
expenses of administration and operation and such expenses for maintenance of
said Water Supply System as are necessary to preserve the same in good repair
and working order, and to provide for such other expenditures and funds for
said System as are required by said Ordinance.
   This bond and the interest thereon are exempt from any and all taxation
whatsoever by the State of Michigan or by any taxing authority within said
State.
   This bond may be registered as to principal only on the books of the Village
Treasurer in the name of the holder, and such registration noted on the back
hereof by the Village Treasurer, after which no transfer shall be valid unless
made on the books and noted hereon in like manner, but transferability by
delivery may be restored by registration to bearer. Such registration shall not
affect the negotiability of the interest coupons.
   It is hereby certified and recited that all acts, conditions and things
required by law precedent to and in the issuance of this bond and the series of
bonds of which this is one have been done and performed in regular and due time
and form as required by law.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Village Council of the Village of Eau Claire, County
of Berrien, State of Michigan, has caused this bond to be signed in the name of
said Village by the President and countersigned by the Village Clerk and the
corporate seal of the Village to be affixed hereto, and the coupons hereto
attached to be signed by the Village Treasurer, as of the first day of July,
A.D. 1952.
   VILLAGE OF EAU CLAIRE
   By ______________________
   President
(Seal)
Countersigned:
_______________________________
Village Clerk
(Form of Coupon)
No. ____   $_______
   On the first day of __________ A.D. 20__, unless the bond to which this
coupon pertains shall have been called for redemption, the VILLAGE OF EAU
CLAIRE, Berrien County, Michigan, will pay to the bearer the sum of
_____________ Dollars, in the manner and out of the revenues described in said
bon, at ____________________ being the semiannual interest then due on its
Water Supply System Revenue Bond, dated July 1, 1952, No. _____.
   This coupon is not a general of the Village of Eau Claire, but is payable
from certain revenues as set forth in the bond to which it pertains.
   _________________________
   Village Treasurer
REGISTRATION
Nothing to be Written Hereon Except by the
Village Treasurer
Date of Registration: Name of Registered Owner: Registrar: 
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.28 VILLAGE CLERK AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE AND SELL BONDS.
   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to make application to
the Municipal Finance Commission for authority to issue and sell said bonds,
and for approval of the form of notice of sale of said bonds in accordance with
the provisions of Public Act 202 of 1943, as amended, and of Public Act 94 of
1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, as amended.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.29 PUBLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be published in full in Benton Harbor News Palladium,
a newspaper of general circulation in the village, qualified under state law to
publish legal notices, within one week of its adoption.
(Ord. 201, passed - -)
§ 52.30 FLUORIDATION.
   In accordance with Public Act 346 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.191 and
325.192, wherein it is stated in § 2 of said Act, the county, city, township,
or village, or any combination thereof supplying water to the public, to which
water fluoride is not presently added and which may be consumed by humans,
shall add fluoride to such water in the manner and amount to be prescribed by
the Department of Public Health within five years after the effective date of
said Act, unless such addition of fluoride has been rejected by ordinance of
the local governing body and it appearing from the records of the village that
fluoridation of the village’s water supply has been rejected by majority of the
governing body of this village at a regular Council meeting held in the Village
Hall on July 9, 1973, at 8:00 p.m., the addition of fluoride to the village
municipal water supply is rejected.
(Ord. 1973-2, passed 7-10-1973)
§ 52.31 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The village adopts by reference the water supply cross-connection
rules of the State Department of Public Health being M.A.C. R 325.431 through R
325.440.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the village to cause inspections to be made of
all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections with
the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the village and as approved by the State Department of Public
Health.
   (C)   The representative of the village shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessees, or occupants
of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (D)   The village is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water
service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this subchapter exists, and to take such other precautionary
measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply system. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The potable water supply available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this subchapter and by the State and Village Plumbing Code. Any water outlet
which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conscious manner as:
“WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING”
   (F)   This subchapter does not supersede the State Plumbing Code and Village
Plumbing Code but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 1973-3, passed 11-27-1973) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of §
52.31, or any written order of the village, in pursuance thereof, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by
a fine of not less than $25 not more than $100 for each violation. Each day
upon which a violation of the provisions of §
52.31 shall occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the
purpose of §
52.31.
(Ord. 1973-3, passed 11-27-1973)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and scope
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Publication
   
53.004   Effective date
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
53.015   Unlawful deposition
   
53.016   Discharge prohibited without required approvals, permits, and
treatment
   
53.017   Unlawful construction
   
53.018   Required connection to available sanitary sewer
   
53.019   Waste discharge prohibited except through approved sewer connection
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
53.030   Private treatment and disposal requirements
   
53.031   Additional public health requirements
   
53.032   Public sewer becomes available
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.045   Permit required
   
53.046   Building sewer permits
   
53.047   Connection costs
   
53.048   Multiple buildings; separate uses within buildings
   
53.049   Existing building sewers
   
53.050   Construction specifications
   
53.051   Building sewer elevation and location
   
53.052   Low building sewers
   
53.053   Connection specifications
   
53.054   Notification; building sewer inspection
   
53.055   Protection and restoration
   
53.056   Capacity required
   
53.057   Connection to sources of runoff prohibited
   
53.058   Pretreatment of any discharge may be required
Conditions of Service
   
53.070   Sewer maintenance
   
53.071   Customer connection requirements
   
53.072   Disruption of service
   
53.073   Service inspections
Regulation of Discharges to the POTW
   
53.085   Discharge prohibitions
   
53.086   Pretreatment standards and requirements
   
53.087   Village’s right of revision
   
53.088   POTW’s right to refuse or condition discharge
   
53.089   Most restrictive standards and requirements apply
   
53.090   Dilution prohibited as substitute for treatment
User Permits
   
53.105   User permit required
   
53.106   Determination of user status
   
53.107   Permit application deadlines
   
53.108   Permit application requirements
   
53.109   Permit issuance, denial, or determination that permit not required
   
53.110   Permit conditions
   
53.111   Permit modifications
   
53.112   Permit duration
   
53.113   Permit reissuance
   
53.114   Continuation of expired permits
   
53.115   Permit suspension and revocation
   
53.116   Limitations on permit transfer
   
53.117   Duty to provide information
   
53.118   Permit appeals
   
53.119   Permits not stayed
   
53.120   Permit fees
Reporting and Notice Requirements
   
53.135   Generally
   
53.136   Reports by non-domestic users regarding categorical pretreatment
standards and requirements
   
53.137   Reports required for non-domestic users not subject to categorical
pretreatment standards
   
53.138   Notice by user of potential problems
   
53.139   Notice by user of violation of pretreatment standards
   
53.140   Notice by user of changed discharge or change in user status
   
53.141   Notice by user regarding wastes that are otherwise hazardous
   
53.142   Notice by user regarding installation of new pretreatment facilities
   
53.143   Notice of intent
   
53.144   Other reports and notices required by this chapter or by other
applicable laws and regulations
   
53.145   Requirements applicable to all required reports, notifications, and
applications
   
53.146   Signature and certification requirements
Sampling, Analysis, and Monitoring Requirements
   
53.160   Generally
   
53.161   Sampling and analytical techniques and procedures
   
53.162   Sampling frequency
   
53.163   Sample types
   
53.164   Sampling methods, equipment, and location
   
53.165   Costs of monitoring, sampling, and analyses
   
53.166   Self-monitoring
   
53.167   Sampling and analyses performed by POTW
   
53.168   Split samples and sample results
   
53.169   Maintenance, repair, and calibration of equipment
   
53.170   Required sampling structures and devices
Accidental Discharges
   
53.185   General
   
53.186   Designation of person in charge of discharge operations
   
53.187   Description of chemicals stored, used, or manufactured by user; user
discharges; user premises
   
53.188   Segregation of wastewaters requiring pretreatment
   
53.189   Secondary containment requirements
   
53.190   Submission of pollution incident prevention plan
   
53.191   Posting of accidental discharge information
   
53.192   Notice of accidental discharge
   
53.193   Slug control plan
Upset and Additional Affirmative Defenses
   
53.205   Upset
   
53.206   Additional affirmative defenses
Bypass
   
53.220   Bypass not violating applicable pretreatment standards or requirements
   
53.221   Bypass prohibited
   
53.222   Required notices
   
53.223   POTW approved bypass
Confidential Information
   
53.235   Confidential information
Records Retention
   
53.250   Maintenance of records
Administration of the POTW
   
53.265   Operation and management of POTW
   
53.266   Powers of POTW manager
User Pollution Controls
   
53.280   Provision by users of necessary pretreatment facilities
   
53.281   Proper operation and maintenance
   
53.282   Removed substances
   
53.283   Duty to halt or reduce activity
   
53.284   Duty to mitigate
   
53.285   Duty to pretreat prior to discharge to POTW
   
53.286   Implementation of best management practices or best management
practices plan
   
53.287   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors/traps
   
53.288   Additional pretreatment measures
Enforcement
   
53.300   POTW inspection, surveillance, and monitoring authority; right of
entry
   
53.301   Notice of violation
   
53.302   Orders and supplemental enforcement tools
   
53.303   Service of notices of violations, orders, and notices of assessments
   
53.304   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
53.305   Number of violations
   
53.306   Nuisance
   
53.307   Reimbursement
   
53.308   Review or approval by village
   
53.309   Severance or suspension of sewer and/or water service
   
53.310   Judicial relief
   
53.311   Cumulative remedies
Administrative Review and Appeals
   
53.325   Procedures available
   
53.326   Informal hearing before the POTW manager
   
53.327   Appeal to POTW Board of Appeals
   
53.328   Payment of charges, penalties, fines, and other costs or fees pending
outcome of appeal
   
53.329   Finality of action
   
53.330   Appeals from determination of POTW Board of Appeals
Municipal Liability
   
53.345   Municipal liability
Industrial Pretreatment Program Fees
   
53.360   Purpose
   
53.361   Rates, charges, and fees for non-domestic users
   
53.362   IPP fee amounts
   
53.363   Surcharges
   
53.364   Billing and collection of IPP fees
Rates and Charges for Sewer Service
   
53.375   Rates for sewer service
   
53.376   Service terms and conditions
   
53.377   Lien
   
53.378   Collection action
   
53.379   Separate books, records, and accounts; audit
   
53.380   Annual review of rates, fees, charges, and surcharges
   
53.381   Annual review of industrial users
   
53.382   Insurance
 
   
53.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Land usage, general provisions, see
Chapter 150
   Utilities generally, see
Chapter 50
   Water, see
Chapter 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purposes of this chapter are:
      (1)   To establish uniform requirements for discharges by all users to
the village’s publicly owned treatment works (“POTW”), and to enable the POTW
to comply with applicable state and federal laws as required by the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (also known as the “Clean Water Act”), as amended,
33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.; the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part
403); Public Act 451 of 1994, part 31, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq., as
amended (“Water Resources Protection”); and the rules, M.A.C. R 323.2301 et
seq., as amended, promulgated pursuant to Public Act 451 of 1994, part 31, §§
3103, 3106, and 3109, as amended;
      (2)   To prevent the discharge of pollutants into the POTW that do not
meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements; that would interfere
with the operation of the POTW; that would pass-through the POTW into the
receiving waters or the atmosphere, the environment, or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW; that would inhibit or disrupt the POTW’s
processing, use, or disposal of sludge; that would cause health or safety
problems for POTW workers; or that would result in a violation of the POTW’s
NPDES permit or of other applicable laws and regulations;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the POTW;
      (4)   To regulate the discharge of wastewater and/or pollutants to the
POTW and to enforce the requirements of this chapter through the issuance of
permits and through other means as provided by this chapter;
      (5)   To authorize and require all inspection, monitoring, reporting, and
enforcement activities as necessary to ensure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements and other applicable laws and
regulations; and
      (6)   To provide for the equitable distribution and recovery of costs
from users of the POTW sufficient to administer regulatory activities and to
meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, improvement, and replacement of
the POTW.
   (B)   This chapter applies to any person, whether located within the village
or outside the village, that discharges to the POTW.
   (C)   This chapter also applies to any person owning, using, constructing,
or maintaining any private system or facility intended or used for the disposal
of sewage or wastewater within the village or under the village’s jurisdiction.
   (D)   Any other local unit of government that discharges into the POTW
shall, as a condition to discharge, be required to adopt, and to keep
continually in force and up to date, an ordinance that, except as specifically
approved in advance by the POTW, must be identical to the sewer use ordinance
as provided by this chapter (and as this chapter is amended from time to time
by the village).
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any wastewater or
pollutant to the POTW or to any storm sewer or natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable laws and
regulations.
   (F)   If any user discharges or proposes to discharge wastewaters or
pollutants that are prohibited or limited by this chapter, the village may take
any action as provided by this chapter or other applicable laws or regulations
to assure and require compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water
Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. When used in reference to a non-domestic user,
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE means as follows:
      (1)   If the user is a corporation, a RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE OFFICER
means: a president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation
in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy- or decision-making functions for the corporation; or the
manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating facilities,
provided, the manager is authorized to make management decisions which govern
the operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or
implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate
and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental
compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that the
necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete and
accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where authority to
sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures;
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or proprietorship, a general partner
or proprietor, respectively;
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental entity, the
principal executive officer, ranking elected official, or director having
responsibility for the overall operation of the discharging facility; and
      (4)   A duly authorized representative of an individual designated in
divisions (1), (2), or (3) above, if the representative is responsible for the
overall operation of the facilities from which the discharge to the POTW
originates.
         (a)   To be considered duly authorized, the authorization must be made
in writing by an individual designated in divisions (1), (2), or (3) above. The
authorization must specify either an individual or a position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility (such as the position
of plant manager, operator of a well or well field, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for the environmental matters
for the company or entity). The written authorization must be submitted to the
POTW Manager prior to or together with any reports to be signed by the
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
         (b)   If an authorization under division (4)(a) above is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company or entity, a new written authorization must be
submitted to the POTW Manager prior to or together with any reports to be
signed by the newly AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE or BMP. Any practice, program, procedure, control,
technique, or measure (used singularly or in combination) that a user is
required to adopt or implement to control, contain, treat, prevent, or reduce
the discharge of wastewater, pollutants, or other substances to the POTW, as
determined necessary by the POTW Manager. BMPs include, but are not limited to:
schedules of activities; pollution treatment practices or devices; prohibitions
of practices; good housekeeping practices; pollution prevention, minimization,
and reduction measures; educational practices and programs; maintenance
procedures; other management programs, practices, or devices; treatment
requirements; notice, reporting, and record-keeping requirements; and operating
procedures and practices to control or contain site runoff, spillage or leaks,
batch discharges, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from product and raw
materials storage. BMPs may be structural, nonstructural, or both. In
determining what BMPs will be required of a user in a particular case, the POTW
Manager may consider all relevant technological, economic, practical, and
institutional considerations as determined relevant and appropriate by the
Manager, consistent with achieving and maintaining compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of dissolved oxygen
used in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system that receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to a building sewer. The BUILDING
DRAIN shall be deemed to begin five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal (such as a grinder pump). The BUILDING SEWER shall be
deemed to begin five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
§ 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317, which apply to a
specific category of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter
N, parts 405 through 471.
   CATEGORICAL USER. A user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard.
   CESSPOOL. An underground pit into which domestic waste is discharged and
from which the liquid seeps into the surrounding soil or is otherwise removed.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine used or
present at the beginning of the disinfection process and that available at the
end of the contact time, expressed in mg/l.
   COD. A measure of oxygen-consuming capacity of inorganic and organic matter
present in water or wastewater. It is expressed as the amount of oxygen
consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. It does not differentiate
between stable and unstable organic matter and thus does not necessarily
correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. Also known as OXYGEN CONSUMED (OCR)
and DICHROMATE OXYGEN CONSUMED (DCO), respectively.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and stormwater.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A pollutant that, as determined by the POTW Manager,
is susceptible to effective treatment by the POTW, as designed, and which will
not interfere with, or pass-through, the POTW, and which is otherwise not
incompatible with the treatment processes or in excess of the capacity at the
POTW. The term COMPATIBLE is a relative concept that must be determined on a
case-by-case basis. In determining whether or not a pollutant is compatible
with the POTW, the Manager may consider, without limitation, the nature and
qualities of the pollutant, and the concentration, mass, and flow rate at which
the pollutant is (or is proposed to be) discharged. Thus, for example, even
pollutants such as BOD, fats, oils or grease, phosphorous, suspended solids,
and fecal coliform bacteria, which are typically considered COMPATIBLE may be
determined incompatible, if discharged in concentrations or flows that would
cause interference or pass-through or exceed the POTW’s capacity. Specifically
excluded from the definition of COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT are heavy metals, PCBs,
and any pollutants that will likely contribute or cause operational or sludge
disposal problems or unacceptable discharges to the receiving waters.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A series of individual samples, collected on a flow or
time proportional basis, taken at regular intervals over a specific time period
and combined into a single sample (formed either by continuous sampling or by
mixing discrete samples) representative of the average stream during the
sampling period. For categorical, a COMPOSITE SAMPLE shall consist of at least
a minimum of one individual aliquot or grab taken every two hours during the
discharge period, with a minimum of four individual samples taken during
discharge periods of eight hours or less within a 24-hour period.
   COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling purposes only, including both contact
and noncontact COOLING WATER.
   COOLING WATER (CONTACT). Water used for cooling purposes only that may
become contaminated or polluted either through the use of water treatment
chemicals (such as corrosion inhibitors or biocides) or by direct contact with
process materials and/or wastewater.
   COOLING WATER (NONCONTACT). Water used for cooling purposes only that has no
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, final product, or
waste, and that does not contain a detectable level of contaminants higher than
that of the intake water (for example, the water discharged from uses such as
air conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant
added is heat).
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The maximum discharge of pollutants or flow (expressed in
terms of concentration, mass loading, pounds, gallons, or other unit of
measurement) that shall not be exceeded on any single calendar day. Where DAILY
MAXIMUM limitations are expressed in terms of a concentration, the daily
discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant concentration
derived from all measurements taken that day, except pH and dissolved oxygen.
Where DAILY MAXIMUM limitations are expressed in units of mass, the daily
discharge is the total mass discharged during the day. If a composite sample is
required for a parameter, the determination whether the DAILY MAXIMUM
limitation for that parameter has been exceeded on a single calendar day shall
be based on the composite sample collected for that parameter on that calendar
day. If grab samples are required for a parameter, the determination whether
the DAILY MAXIMUM limitation for that parameter has been exceeded on a calendar
day shall be based on the average of all grab samples collected for that
parameter on that calendar day. If only one grab sample is collected for a
parameter on a given day, the determination whether the DAILY MAXIMUM
limitation for that parameter has been exceeded for the day shall be based on
the results of that single grab sample.
   DAYS. For purposes of computing a period of time prescribed or allowed by
this chapter, consecutive calendar DAYS.
   DILUTE. To weaken, thin down, or reduce the concentration of pollutants in
wastewater.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction of waste, wastewater, effluent, or pollutants
into the POTW, whether intentional or unintentional, and whether directly (such
as through an approved sewer connection or other approved DISCHARGE point as
authorized by this chapter) or indirectly (including, but not limited to,
sources such as inflow and infiltration).
   DOMESTIC USER. A user that discharges only segregated normal strength
domestic waste into the POTW.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Wastewater (or water-carried waste) of human origin
generated by personal activities from toilet, kitchen, laundry, or bathing
facilities, or by other similar facilities used for household or residential
dwelling purposes (“sanitary sewage”). DOMESTIC WASTE shall not include any
waste resulting from industrial or commercial processes including, without
limitation, any hazardous or toxic pollutants. Wastes that emanate from sources
other than residential dwelling units may be considered DOMESTIC WASTES only if
they are of the same nature and strength and have the same flow rate
characteristics as wastes that emanate from residential dwelling units.
   EFFLUENT. Wastewater or other liquid, partially or completely treated,
flowing from a reservoir, basin, treatment process, or treatment plant.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EXCESSIVE. At such a flow, rate, magnitude, or amount that, in the judgment
of the POTW Manager, it may: cause damage to any facility or the POTW; be
harmful to the wastewater treatment processes; adversely affect the management
or operation of the POTW or POTW sludge management or disposal; cause pass-
through or interference; violate any pretreatment standard or requirement;
adversely affect the quality of the receiving waters or the ambient air
quality; endanger worker health and safety; constitute a public nuisance; may
be inconsistent with the requirements, purposes, or objectives of this chapter;
or otherwise adversely impact the public health, safety, or welfare or the
environment.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge that is not a new source as defined
by this chapter.
   FATS or FOG. Fats, oil, or grease consisting of any hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils, or any other nonvolatile material of animal,
vegetable, or mineral origin that is extractable by solvents in accordance with
standard methods.
   FLOW-PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of
equal volume taken at equal intervals of flow without consideration of the time
between individual samples.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, serving, or dispensing
of food, from the handling, storage, processing, or sale of produce, or from
the canning or packaging of food. It is composed largely of putrescible organic
matter and its natural or added moisture content.
   GENERAL USER PERMIT. A permit issued to any user other than a significant
industrial user as provided by this chapter to control discharges to the POTW
and to ensure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample that is taken from a waste stream on a
one-time basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period
of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GRINDER PUMP. In a GRINDER PUMP system, the device to which the building
sewer connects and which grinds and pumps the sewage to the public sewer for
transportation to the POTW.
   GRINDER PUMP SYSTEM. The publicly owned grinder pump, controls, and pressure
discharge pipe, including all control boards, controls, floats, pumps, storage
tanks, and appurtenances thereto which provides the connection between the
privately owned building sewer and the public sewer system.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any substance discharged or proposed to be discharged into
the POTW, that: if otherwise disposed of would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261 or under the rules promulgated under the State Hazardous Waste
Management Act (Public Act 451 of 1994, part 111, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101
et seq., as amended); or is otherwise a waste or a combination of waste and
other discarded material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous material that because of its quantity, quality, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause or significantly
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible
illness or serious incapacitating but reversible illness, or may pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment if
improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed, as
determined by the POTW.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non-domestic user that, by any means, contributes,
causes, or permits the contribution, introduction, or discharge of wastewater
or pollutants into the POTW, whether intentional or unintentional, and whether
directly or indirectly.
   INDUSTRIAL USER PERMIT. A permit issued to a significant industrial user, or
to such other user as determined appropriate by the POTW Manager, as provided
by this chapter to control discharges to the POTW and to ensure compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the POTW from the ground through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from,
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the POTW from sources such as, but not limited
to: building downspouts; roof leaders; cellar, yard, and area drains;
foundation and footing drains; cooling water discharges; drains from springs
and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross connections from storm sewers and
combined sewers; catch basins; stormwaters; surface runoff; street wash waters;
or drainage.
   INSPECTOR. Any person (and such person’s representatives) designated by the
village or the POTW Manager to observe the construction of and/or connection to
the public sewer system, to ensure conformance with the requirements of this
chapter, and to otherwise act as provided by this chapter.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum concentration or other measure of
pollutant magnitude of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any instant in
time (independent of the flow rate or duration of the sampling event). If the
concentration or other measure of pollutant magnitude determined by analysis of
any grab sample, composite sample, or discrete portion of a composite sample
exceeds the INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM LIMIT, the INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM LIMIT shall
be deemed to have been exceeded.
   INSTANTANEOUS MINIMUM LIMIT. The lowest measure of pollutant magnitude of a
pollutant allowed to be discharged at any instant in time (independent of the
flow rate or duration of the sampling event). If the concentration or other
pollutant magnitude determined by analysis of any grab sample, composite
sample, or discrete portion of a composite sample is below the specified
INSTANTANEOUS MINIMUM LIMIT, the INSTANTANEOUS MINIMUM LIMIT shall be deemed to
have been violated.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal; or
      (2)   Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations) § 405 of the Clean Water Act, the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more commonly referred to
as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)), and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.,
the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., and the Marine Protection,
Research, and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 1401 et
seq..
   LATERAL SEWER. The portion of the sewer system located under the street or
within the public right-of-way from the property line to the trunk line and
which collects sewage from a particular property for transfer to the trunk
line.
   LOCAL LIMITS. A specific enforceable prohibition, standard, or requirement
(numerical or non-numerical) on discharges by non-domestic users established by
the POTW to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter and to comply with
applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   M.A.C. The Michigan Administrative Code.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MDEQ. The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, or dialysis
wastes, and includes any medical or infectious wastes as defined by the State
Department of Environmental Quality.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of the concentrations (or mass loadings, expressed
in terms of pounds per day, or such other unit of measurement) of a pollutant
divided by the number of samples taken during a calendar month. The
concentrations (or loadings) that are added are single numbers for single
calendar days for all days during the calendar month for which analyses are
obtained (whether by the user or the POTW), but the concentrations (or
loadings) may be based upon a sample or samples taken over either all or part
of that day and upon single or multiple analyses for that day, as determined by
the POTW Manager. If no samples are taken during particular months because less
than monthly sampling is required for a pollutant parameter (e.g., a specified
quarterly monitoring period), the MONTHLY AVERAGE for each month within the
specified monitoring period shall be deemed to be the sum of concentrations (or
loadings) for the monitoring period divided by number of samples taken during
the monitoring period.
   NAICS or NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM. The system of
classification for business establishments adopted by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget, as amended.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any naturally formed outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch,
lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces,
or adds to existing process or production equipment. Commencement of
construction of a NEW SOURCE shall be determined in a manner consistent with 40
C.F.R. § 403.3(k)(3).
   ng/l. Nanograms per liter.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. See COOLING WATER (NONCONTACT).
   NON-DOMESTIC USER. Any user other than a domestic user (i.e., any user that
discharges anything other than segregated normal strength domestic waste into
the POTW). The determination of whether or not a user is a NON-DOMESTIC USER
shall be made by POTW Manager at the Manager’s sole discretion as determined
necessary by the Manager to achieve the purposes and objectives of this
chapter. Any user that has the reasonable potential, as determined by the POTW
Manager, to discharge any waste other than normal strength domestic waste into
the POTW, may be deemed a NON-DOMESTIC USER for purposes of this chapter.
   NON-DOMESTIC WASTE. Any wastewater (or water- or liquid-carried waste) other
than domestic waste. The determination of whether or not a waste is a NON-
DOMESTIC WASTE shall be made by POTW Manager at the Manager’s sole discretion
as determined necessary by the Manager to achieve the purposes and objectives
of this chapter. Any waste that has the reasonable potential, as determined by
the POTW Manager, to be not entirely composed of normal strength domestic waste
may be deemed NON-DOMESTIC WASTE for purposes of this chapter.
   NORMAL STRENGTH DOMESTIC WASTE. A domestic waste flow for which the levels
of pollutants (including, without limitation, BOD, TSS, ammonia nitrogen, or
phosphorous) are below the surcharge levels for any parameter as established by
this chapter. Further, to be considered normal strength, the wastewater must
have a pH between 6.5 and 8.5, must not exceed any local limit, and must not
contain a concentration of other constituents that would interfere with POTW
treatment processes. The determination of whether or not a waste stream is
NORMAL STRENGTH DOMESTIC WASTE shall be made by POTW Manager at the Manager’s
sole discretion as determined necessary by the Manager to achieve the purposes
and objectives of this chapter.
   NPDES PERMIT. A national pollutant discharge elimination system permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect (other than
debt service), necessary to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a
continuing basis, to conform with all related federal, state, and local
requirements, and to assure optimal long-term facility management. OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE COSTS include depreciation and replacement costs.
   OUTFALL. The point (or points) of discharge by a user to the POTW, approved
by the POTW and specified in a user permit.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of the state (or
waters of the United States) in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit or of any requirement
of applicable local, state, or federal laws and regulations (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation), or otherwise
detrimentally impacts the receiving stream.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity or their legal representatives,
agents, or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any material that is discharged into water or other liquid
including, but not limited to, dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, wrecked or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste;
      (2)   Properties of materials or characteristics of wastewater including,
but not limited to, pH, heat, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, and
odor;
      (3)   Substances regulated by categorical standards;
      (4)   Substances discharged to the POTW that are required to be monitored
by a user under this chapter, that are limited in the POTW’s NPDES permit, or
that are required to be identified in the POTW’s application for an NPDES
permit; and
      (5)   Substances for which control measures on users are necessary to
avoid restricting the POTW’s residuals management program; to avoid operational
problems at the POTW; or to avoid POTW worker health and safety problems.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). The complete sewage disposal,
transportation, and treatment system of the village as defined by the Act and
this chapter, including any devices, processes, and systems used in the
storage, treatment, recycling, or reclamation of wastewater, sewage, or sludge,
as well as sewers (including all main, lateral, and intercepting sewers),
pipes, and other conveyances used to collect or convey wastewater or sewage to
the treatment works, as now or hereafter added to, extended, or improved. The
term POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW
from persons who are, by contract or agreement with the village, users of the
POTW. References in this chapter to approvals, determinations, reviews, and the
like, “by the POTW” shall mean by the POTW Manager, or the Manager’s authorized
representatives. The term POTW may also be used to refer to the village as the
municipality that has jurisdiction over the discharges to, and discharges from,
the treatment works, or to the wastewater treatment plant and its designated
representatives, as appropriate to the context in which the term is used.
   POTW MANAGER or MANAGER. The Chairperson of the Village Sewer Committee.
This person is responsible to supervise the operation, maintenance, alteration,
repair, and management of the POTW, administer the village’s industrial
pretreatment program, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities as provided by this chapter. References to POTW MANAGER or
MANAGER shall include the MANAGER’S authorized representatives.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW that is designed to provide
treatment (including recycling or reclamation) of wastewater.
   PREMISES. A lot, tract, or parcel of land, or a building or structure,
having any connection, directly or indirectly, to the POTW, or from which there
is a discharge to the POTW.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater before or instead of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical, or biological processes; process changes; or other means,
except for the use of dilution (unless expressly authorized by any applicable
pretreatment standard or requirement and the POTW Manager). Appropriate
PRETREATMENT technology includes control equipment, such as equalization tanks
or facilities, for protection against surges or slug loadings, subject to
applicable requirements of local, state, and federal laws and regulations.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on a non-
domestic user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act or Public Act 451 of
1994, part 31, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq., including general and
specific prohibitive discharge limits and local limits established in this
chapter pursuant to M.A.C. R 323.2303, and categorical standards.
   PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A cesspool, septic tank, or similar
device which discharges to a suitable drainage field.
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water that, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE OR OTHER SOLID MATERIAL. Garbage or other solid
material that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the POTW (or so
as to otherwise not result in interference), with no particle greater than one-
half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   REASONABLE POTENTIAL. A determination of REASONABLE POTENTIAL by the POTW
Manager means a determination made by the Manager that a certain condition,
state, result, or circumstance exists, or is likely to exist, based upon the
quantitative or qualitative factors or information deemed by the Manager to be
relevant and appropriate to the determination, consistent with the purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment or
facilities in the POTW to ensure continuous treatment of wastewater in
accordance with the village’s NPDES permit and other applicable local, state,
and federal laws and regulations.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any structure designed for habitation including, but
not limited to, houses, mobile homes, apartment buildings, condominiums, and
townhouses where each dwelling unit contains, at a minimum, sleeping
facilities, a toilet, a bath or shower, and a kitchen.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. See DOMESTIC WASTE.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry liquid- and water-carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, and
to which storm, surface, and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEEPAGE PIT. A cistern or underground enclosure constructed of concrete
blocks, bricks, or similar material loosely laid with open joints so as to
allow the overflow or effluent to be absorbed directly into the surrounding
soil.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight receptacle receiving sewage and having an inlet
and outlet designed to permit the separation of suspended solids from sewage
and to permit such retained solids to undergo decomposition therein.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The portion of the public sewer which extends either to
or onto the parcel of land adjacent to the path of the public sewer, and
includes the sewer main, tee/wye, valve, check valve, connector pipes, the
sewer lead, the grinder pump system, electrical controls, and connections at
the electric meter (but not including the meter) and appurtenances, but not
including the building sewer.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, or damage
to treatment facilities that causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean an
economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. See WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube, or conduit for carrying wastewater or drainage
water.
   SEWER LEAD. The portion of the service connection that connects to the sewer
main located in the public right-of-way and extends to the property line.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIC or STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU.
      (1)   Any non-domestic user:
         (a)   Subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
         (b)   Any other non-domestic user that:
            1.   Discharges to the POTW an average of 25,000 gallons per day or
more of process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and boiler
blow-down wastewater);
            2.   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is otherwise designated by the POTW as a significant
industrial user on the basis that the user has a reasonable potential to
adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate any pretreatment
standard or requirement, or because the POTW determines that an industrial user
permit for the user’s discharge is required to meet the purposes and objectives
of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Manager may determine that a user that meets the criteria
of divisions (b)1. and (b)2. of this definition above is not currently an SIU,
if the Manager finds that the user has no reasonable potential to adversely
affect the operation of the POTW, to violate any pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that an industrial user permit is not required to meet the
purposes and objectives of this chapter. A determination that a user is not an
SIU (or that a permit is therefore not required) shall not be binding and may
be reversed by the Manager at any time based on changed circumstances, new
information, or as otherwise determined necessary by the Manager to meet the
purposes and objectives of this chapter.
   SLUDGE. Accumulated solid material separated from liquid waste as a result
of the wastewater treatment process.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STATE. The State of Michigan. The term shall include, where applicable, any
administrative agency of the state having jurisdiction in the subject matter of
this chapter including, but not limited to, the State Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ).
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer or drain, either natural or artificial,
intended to carry stormwater, snowmelt, and surface runoff and drainage, but
not wastewater.
   STORMWATER. Any flow (such as stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, and
surface runoff and drainage) occurring during or following, and resulting from,
any form of natural precipitation, and is that portion of flow in excess of
that which infiltrates into the soil of the drainage area.
   SURCHARGE. The additional charges made by the POTW for the treatment of
wastewater containing pollutants in excess of specified concentrations,
loadings, or other applicable limits, or for other purposes specified by this
chapter.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Solids that float on
the surface of, or are suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and
which can be removed by laboratory filtering or other standard methods.
   TIME-PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of
equal volume taken at equal intervals of time, without consideration of the
volume or rate of flow.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants that is or can
potentially be harmful to the public health, the POTW, or the environment
including, without limitation, those listed in 40 C.F.R. § 401.15 as toxic
under the provisions of the Clean Water Act, or listed in the Critical
Materials Register promulgated by the State Department of Environmental
Quality, or as provided by local, state, or federal laws, rules, or
regulations.
   TRUCKED OR HAULED WASTE OR POLLUTANTS. Any waste proposed to be discharged
to the POTW from a mobile source including, without limitation, holding tank
waste.
   TRUNK LINE. The main sewer line located under any street or within any
public right-of-way that collects and transmits the sewage of the various
properties served by the sewer system.
   ug/l. Micrograms per liter.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or
careless or improper operation.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution,
introduction, or discharge of wastewater into the POTW, whether intentional or
unintentional, and whether directly or indirectly.
   USER DEBT RETIREMENT CHARGE. The charge levied on all users of the POTW for
the cost of any bond debt of which debt repayment is to be met from the
revenues of such works.
   USER OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE CHARGE. The charge levied on all users of the
POTW for the cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement and
depreciation of such treatment works.
   USER PERMIT. An industrial user permit or a general user permit.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Eau Claire, Berrien County, Michigan, as represented
by the Eau Claire Village Council, and/or the Village Council’s designated
representatives.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic waste from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and
institutions (including, without limitation, contaminated groundwater and
landfill leachate), whether treated or untreated, that is contributed,
introduced, or discharged into the POTW. The term includes any water that has
in any way been used and degraded or physically or chemically altered.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface, or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion
thereof, and as otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. All waters as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 122.2 and
as otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WYE BRANCH. A local service connection to the sewer that is made at an angle
similar to a “wye” so that a sewer cleaning rod will not come into the sewer at
a right angle and penetrate the far side, but will travel down the course of
the sewer.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.003 PUBLICATION.
   This chapter shall be published by publishing a summary of the chapter in a
newspaper circulated in the village, including the designation in the
publication of the location in the village where a true copy of the chapter can
be inspected or obtained, as authorized by state law.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective become effective 20 days after passage and
publication.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.015 UNLAWFUL DEPOSITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited any human or animal excrement, garbage, wastewater pollutants, or
other objectionable waste upon or below the surface of public or private
property within the jurisdiction of the village, except by discharging such
wastewater into an approved connection to a public sanitary sewer where
available or an approved private wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED WITHOUT REQUIRED APPROVALS, PERMITS, AND
TREATMENT.
   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by local, state, and federal laws
and regulations, and subject to obtaining all required permits and approvals
from governmental agencies (including, without limitation, the village, the
State Department of Environmental Quality, and the EPA) and providing any
required treatment, it shall be unlawful to discharge, or permit or cause to be
discharged, either directly or indirectly:
   (A)   Polluted water, sewage, or wastewater to any natural outlet within the
village, to any waters of the state (or waters of the United States), or to any
public sewer;
   (B)   (1)   Unpolluted water of any kind including, without limitation,
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, artesian well water,
drainage water (surface or subsurface), industrial noncontact cooling water,
air-conditioning water, swimming pool water, or industrial process waters to
any sanitary sewer.
      (2)   Unpolluted water may be discharged only to a sewer that is
specifically designated as a storm sewer or to a natural outlet, and only if
all applicable permits and approvals have first been obtained from the POTW and
other governmental bodies or agencies and only if not prohibited by applicable
local, state, or federal laws or regulations.
   (C)   If any person drains any unpolluted water from his or her property by
means of conductors, eaves troughs, roof downspouts, or otherwise, into a
combined sewer, storm sewer, or natural outlet in violation of applicable laws
or regulations or without securing the prior approval of the village, or into a
sanitary sewer, the village shall order its disconnection at the property
owner’s expense, and if the property owner refuses to obey the order of the
village, then the village shall disconnect the connection and the costs shall
be charged to the property owner.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.017 UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018 REQUIRED CONNECTION TO AVAILABLE SANITARY SEWER.
   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the village, and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way, in which there is located, or
may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer within
200 feet of the property line, is hereby required, at the owner’s expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with the provision of this
chapter, when given official notice to do so, provided that such connection
shall not be required to be made less than six months after the sewer is made
available for connection thereto.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.019 WASTE DISCHARGE PROHIBITED EXCEPT THROUGH APPROVED SEWER CONNECTION.
   All discharges to a sewer shall be through an approved sewer connection or
at another discharge point expressly approved by the POTW in accordance with
this chapter. No person shall discharge any waste or other substances into a
manhole, catch basin, or inlet.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 53.030 PRIVATE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §§
53.015 through
53.019, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all requirements of this subchapter and of the County
Health Department.
   (B)   Before beginning the construction or installation of a private sewage
system, the person owning the property shall first apply for and obtain from
the County Health Department a soil evaluation test and a construction permit.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal systems
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than determined necessary by the village and county or state health
officials, as applicable.
   (D)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County
Health Department. All persons receiving a permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall provide the POTW Manager with copies of all final approved
inspection reports issued by the County Health Department.
   (E)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all local, county, state, and federal
requirements.
   (F)   No septic tank, cesspool, subsurface disposal facility, or other
private sanitary sewer system shall be permitted to discharge to any public
sewer or natural outlet.
   (G)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.031 ADDITIONAL PUBLIC HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the village, the State
Department of Public Health, or any other governmental agency.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.032 PUBLIC SEWER BECOMES AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §§
53.015 through
53.019, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter at the user’s sole expense; and any septic tanks, cesspools,
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be cleaned of any sludge,
abandoned, and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt, at the user’s sole
expense.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.045 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any part or appurtenance of the sanitary sewer
system without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.046 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   There shall be three classes of building sewer permits: residential;
commercial; and industrial. In any case, the owner or his or her agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered necessary and appropriate in the judgment of the POTW
Manager. A minimum permit and inspection fee inspection fee of $10 for a
residential, $25 for a commercial, and $50 for an industrial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed.
Agents of the village, State Department of Environmental Quality, or the EPA
shall have the right to enter all properties for the purpose of inspecting and
copying all records which are required to be kept pursuant to this chapter.
Resolution 2015-4, passed on 9-21-2015 addressing water and wastewater rates,
fees, charges and policies is incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009; Res. 2015-4, passed 9-21-2015) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.047 CONNECTION COSTS.
   Resolution 2015-4, passed on 9-21-2015 addressing water and wastewater
rates, fees, charges and policies is incorporated by reference.
Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.048 MULTIPLE BUILDINGS; SEPARATE USES WITHIN BUILDINGS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Independent building sewers or control manholes may also be required
for separate uses within a building, as determined necessary by the POTW
Manager and the Inspector. Exceptions may be considered by the POTW Manager
only for preexisting buildings that cannot otherwise be connected to the
sanitary sewer system. Exceptions may also be considered by the POTW Manager
for integrated manufacturing facilities with process or assembly connections
between buildings.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.049 EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter and adopted Plumbing Code standards.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.050 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials, or construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
connecting, testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the current building and plumbing codes, manufacturer’s
specifications, and other applicable rules and regulations of the village, and
shall be subject to the final approval of the Inspector. In the absence of code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the American Society for Testing Materials
(ASTM) and the Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual of Practice No.
9 shall apply.
   (B)   The building sewer shall be constructed of the type of pipe specified
by the Inspector that meets current ASTM specifications. If installed in filled
or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron extra heavy pipe,
except that other types of pipe may be used if laid on a suitable improved bed
or cradle as approved by the Inspector.
   (C)   All building drains shall have check valves or other backflow
preventers or the village shall be immune from liability for and shall not pay
any claims resulting from any backflow of wastewater into the building.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051 BUILDING SEWER ELEVATION AND LOCATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the buildings at
an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel
to, or within three feet of, any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened.
The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. All excavations
required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work
unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe laying and backfill shall be
performed in accordance with current ASTM specifications, except that no
backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by the Inspector.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.052 LOW BUILDING SEWERS.
   In all buildings in which any building sewer is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall be
lifted by artificial means and discharged to the building sewer, at the owner’s
expense, and subject to approval by the Inspector.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.053 CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All building sewer joints and connections shall be made gastight
and watertight and shall conform to the requirements of the current building
and plumbing codes, manufacturer’s recommendations, other applicable rules and
regulations of the village, and the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications, and shall be subject to the approval of the Inspector.
      (2)   No deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials shall be
allowed unless approved by the Inspector before installation.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the wye branch designated for the property if such branch is available
at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated wye branch in
the main sewer shall be made only as directed by the Inspector.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.054 NOTIFICATION; BUILDING SEWER INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.055 PROTECTION AND RESTORATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village at the expense
of the owner.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.056 CAPACITY REQUIRED.
   Connection to a public sewer shall not be allowed unless there is capacity
available (in both wastewater volume and strength) at the POTW treatment plant
and in all downstream sewers, pump stations, interceptors, and force mains
including, but not limited to, adequate capacity to accept, treat, and dispose
of BOD, TSS, or similar materials as required by applicable local, state, or
federal laws, rules, or regulations, as determined by the POTW.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.057 CONNECTION TO SOURCES OF RUNOFF PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall connect (or allow to remain connected) roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Any such connection shall be permanently disconnected at the sole
expense of the owner of the premises.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.058 PRETREATMENT OF ANY DISCHARGE MAY BE REQUIRED.
   Pretreatment of any discharge to the public sewer including, but not limited
to, grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion
of the POTW Manager, they are necessary.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 53.070 SEWER MAINTENANCE.
   At the time of original construction of the public sewer, the POTW shall
install that portion of the building sewer from the public sewer to the lot or
easement line off all occupied premises. The POTW shall maintain, at its
expense, the public sewer. Users making connections at the time of original
construction of the public sewer shall install, at their expense, that portion
of the building sewer from the lot or easement line to their premises. Users
shall maintain, at their expense, the building sewers.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.071 CUSTOMER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Users making connections subsequent to the time of original construction of
the public sewer shall install, at their expense, that portion of the building
sewer from the public sewer to the lot or easement line in addition to that
portion of the building sewer from the lot or easement line to their premises.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.072 DISRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The village shall not be held responsible for claims made against it by
reason of the breaking of any mains or service laterals, or by reason of any
other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of machinery or
stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to damages nor
have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.073 SERVICE INSPECTIONS.
   All premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall at all times be subject
to inspection by duly authorized village personnel.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
REGULATION OF DISCHARGES TO THE POTW
§ 53.085 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No user shall discharge to the POTW except in compliance
with this chapter. The general discharge prohibitions under division (B) below
and the specific discharge prohibitions under division (C) below apply to every
user whether or not the user is subject to any other national, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements, and whether or not the discharge is
made pursuant to a user permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed, directly or indirectly to the POTW, any pollutant or wastewater
that will pass-through or interfere with the operation or performance of the
POTW.
   (C)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall discharge or contribute to the
POTW, directly or indirectly, any of the pollutants, substances, or wastewater
as provided by this division (C). This division (C) sets forth the minimum
requirements for a user’s discharges to the POTW. Additional or more
restrictive requirements may be required of particular users by a user permit,
or as otherwise authorized or required by this chapter or other applicable laws
and regulations:
      (1)   Pollutants in concentrations that exceed the   instantaneous
maximum, daily maximum, or monthly average concentrations listed below in this
division (C)(1):
Parameter IMC (mg/l)1 Daily Max. (mg/l)1 Monthly Avg. (mg/l)1
Parameter         IMC (mg/l)1 Daily Max. (mg/l)1 Monthly Avg. (mg/l)1
Ammonia nitrogen  50.03        50.03              -
(NH3 as N)
Arsenic (T)       -            0.026              0.017
BOD5              400.04       400.04             -
Cadmium (T)       -            0.040              0.027
Chromium (T)      -            2.85               2.85
Copper (T)        -            0.95               0.63
Cyanide (T)       -            0.19               0.19
Lead (T)          -            0.16               0.16
Mercury (T)       NQ2          NQ2                -
Molybdenum (T)    -            0.28               0.18
Nickel (T)        -            0.541              0.36
Phosphorous (T)   -            25.06              10.0
Silver (T)        -            0.047              0.031
TSS               350.05       350.05             -
Zinc (T)          -            2.20               2.20
Table notes:
IMC: instantaneous maximum concentration limit
T: total
1:   (A)   Discharges that contain more than one pollutant that may contribute
to fume toxicity shall be subject to more restrictive limitations, as
determined necessary by the POTW. The more restrictive discharge limits will
be calculated based on the additive fume toxicity of all compounds identified
or reasonably expected to be present in the discharge including, without
limitation, the specific compounds, if any, listed in this division (C).
   (B)   Also, see §
53.089, regarding application of most restrictive or additional standards or
requirements under local, state, and federal laws and regulations.
   (C)   The village may develop alternate limits for specific compatible
pollutants, by special agreement between the village and a user, at the user’s
sole expense, but only if all of the following have conditions been met, as
determined by the POTW.
      (1)   A maximum allowable headworks loading (MAHL) study has been done
that is representative of the current flow and loading conditions at the POTW
and that shows sufficient capacity for the change in the specific pollutant.
This will take into consideration the total load from all users and the
allocation of load from the study will be divided appropriately.
      (2)   Any resultant change to the load limits would not significantly
hinder the capacity of the POTW to accept additional waste from new or
existing domestic or non-domestic customers.
      (3)   Any resultant change to the load limits would not exceed the
capacity of the POTW.
      (4)   The proposed change to the load limits has been submitted to the
DEQ for review and approval before implementation.
2: NQ equals non-quantifiable concentration, defined as at or below the
quantification level of 0.2 ug/l using EPA method 245.1 (or at or below other
quantification levels applicable under alternative test methods required by
the POTW or by other applicable laws or regulations). Mercury sampling
procedures, preservation and handling, and analytical protocol for compliance
monitoring of a user’s discharge shall be in accordance with EPA method 245.1,
unless the POTW Manager requires EPA method 1631 (or other appropriate
method). The quantification level shall be 0.2 ug/l for method 245.1 or 0.5
ng/l for method 1631, unless higher levels are approved by the POTW Manager
because of sample matrix interference.
3: Any discharge of ammonia nitrogen in excess of 15 mg/l shall be subject to
surcharge as provided by this chapter.
4: Any discharge of BOD in excess of 220.0 mg/l shall be subject to surcharge
as provided by this chapter.
5: Any discharge of TSS in excess of 200.0 mg/l shall be subject to surcharge
as provided by this chapter.
6: Any discharge of phosphorus in excess of 10 mg/l shall be subject to
surcharge as provided by this chapter.
The IMC, daily maximum, and monthly average limits listed above in this
division (C)(1) (or as listed elsewhere in this chapter or in any user permit
or order) for each pollutant parameter are the concentrations which may not be
exceeded and at which enforcement begins. The surcharge threshold
concentrations as specified in notes 3 through 6 (above) are the
concentrations above which surcharges may be imposed. Discharges exceeding the
surcharge thresholds, but which are less than the IMC, daily maximum, and
monthly average limits (and which do not violate any other applicable
prohibitions, limitations, standards, or requirements), are not violations of
this chapter, but are subject to surcharges as provided by this chapter. All
violations of applicable discharge prohibitions and limitations and all
instances of noncompliance with applicable discharge requirements constitute a
violation of this chapter, subject to applicable fines, penalties, and other
enforcement actions. In no event shall the imposition of a surcharge for a
discharge that does not meet the applicable prohibitions, limitations, or
requirements be construed as authorizing the illegal discharge or otherwise
excuse a violation of this chapter.
 
      (2)   Pollutants in concentrations that exceed the instantaneous maximum,
daily maximum, or monthly average concentrations listed below in this division
(C)(2):
         (a)   The instantaneous maximum concentration, daily maximum, and
monthly average discharge limit for PCBs is non-detect;
         (b)   Except as otherwise required by the POTW Manager, compliance
with this limit shall be determined as follows:
            1.   A compliance limit of non-detect shall be used for
instantaneous maximum concentration, daily maximum, and monthly average. Any
discharge of PCBs at or above the quantification level is a specific violation
of this chapter; and
            2.   PCB sampling procedures, preservation and handling, and
analytical protocol for compliance monitoring of a user’s discharge shall be in
accordance with EPA method 608. The quantification level shall be 0.1 ug/l,
unless higher levels are determined appropriate by the POTW Manager because of
sample matrix interference. Total PCBs shall be defined as the sum of the
Aroclors 1016, 1221, 1232, 1242, 1248, 1254 and 1260. In addition, any detected
Aroclor-specific measurements shall be reported.
      (3)   Any liquid, solid, gas, or other pollutant (including, but not
limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, or fuel oil) which by reason of
its nature or quantity is sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to create a fire or explosion hazard or be injurious in any other
way to persons, the POTW, or to the operation of the sewerage system including,
but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than
140°F or 60°C using test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (4)   Pollutants that may cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
or that due to their corrosive properties are capable of causing injury to
persons or POTW personnel or harm to fish, animals, or the environment.
Discharges that have a pH lower than 6.5 s.u. (instantaneous minimum) or
greater than 9.5 s.u. (instantaneous maximum) shall not be discharged, except
as follows: if a user is not regulated by state or federal categorical
pretreatment standards for pH, and pH is continuously monitored, then, subject
to prior approval of the POTW Manager, the user may discharge wastewater with a
pH less than 6.0 s.u. but greater than 5.0 s.u. for a period of time up to 15
consecutive minutes. Dischargers that use this method are subject to
enforcement under §
53.305(H);
      (5)   Any solid, insoluble, or viscous substance in concentrations or
quantities which may cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW, may create an
encumbrance to the POTW operations, or which otherwise may result in
interference including, but not limited to, grease, animal entrails or tissues,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand,
cement, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, strings, fibers, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood,
plastics, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel
or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes, or tumbling and
deburring stones; or any material that can be disposed of as trash;
      (6)   Any pollutant including, but not limited to, oxygen demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like), released at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration that may cause pass-through or interference with the POTW or
constitute a slug load, or is otherwise discharged to the POTW in excessive
amounts;
      (7)   Wastewater (or vapor) having a temperature that will inhibit
biological activity in the POTW resulting in interference, or heat in such
quantities that the temperature at any lift station or at the POTW treatment
plant exceeds 104°F (40°C). No discharge to the POTW shall have a temperature
less than 40°F (4.4°C) or greater than 135°F (57.2°C), unless approved in
advance by the POTW Manager;
      (8)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through;
      (9)   Pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems. This prohibition includes, but is not limited to, wastewaters
which contain liquids, solids, or gases that cause gases, vapors, or fumes from
the discharge to exceed 10% of the immediately dangerous to life and health
(IDLH) concentration. Discharges, which contain more than one pollutant that
may contribute to fume toxicity, shall be subject to more restrictive
limitations, as determined necessary by the POTW. The more restrictive
discharge limits shall be calculated based on the additive fume toxicity of all
compounds identified or reasonably expected to be present in the discharge;
      (10)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except those introduced into the
system at discharge points designated by the POTW, subject to the prior
approval of the POTW Manager and prior issuance of a user permit:
         (a)   The POTW Manager shall determine whether to allow the discharge
of trucked or hauled pollutants based on the particular nature, character, or
quantity of the proposed discharge in accordance with the discharge
prohibitions, limitations, and requirements provided by this chapter;
         (b)   The POTW Manager may impose any conditions on the discharge
determined necessary to ensure compliance with this subchapter including,
without limitation, conditions regarding the time, place, and manner of
discharge, restrictions on the quantity and quality of the discharge, and
sampling requirements;
         (c)   The discharge shall not commence without prior notice to, and
authorization from, the POTW Manager, and a representative of the POTW shall be
present at all times during the discharge;
         (d)   All trucked or hauled wastes to be discharged to the POTW must
be accompanied by a completed waste manifest form signed by the permittee and
the hauler as provided by the minimum requirements of this section. The
permittee shall certify in writing on the manifest as to the source of all
wastes in the load proposed to be discharged and that the wastes have been
pretreated as required by applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
The hauler shall certify in writing on the manifest that no wastes other than
those listed on the manifest have been accepted by the hauler. The manifest
must be reviewed by the POTW Manager prior to commencing discharge of the load.
Failure to accurately record every load, falsification of data, or failure to
transmit the form to the POTW Manager for review prior to discharge shall
constitute a violation of the permit and may result in revocation of the permit
and/or the imposition of fines and penalties as provided by this subchapter;
         (e)   The permittee’s discharge of hauled wastes shall be subject to
sampling by the POTW at any time including, without limitation, prior to and
during discharge. The POTW Manager may require the permittee to refrain from,
or suspend, discharging until the sample analysis is complete;
         (f)   Trucked or hauled pollutants will be accepted only if
transported to the POTW in compliance with state and federal hazardous waste
and liquid industrial waste laws;
         (g)   Each discharge of trucked or hauled pollutants will be accepted
only after payment to the POTW of a trucked or hauled pollutant discharge fee
to cover the POTW’s administrative expenses and any additional treatment,
handling, or inspection expenses incurred by the POTW in connection with the
discharge. The fee shall be established, paid, and collected as provided for
IPP fees by §§
53.360 through
53.364. This discharge fee shall be in addition to any sewer rates, fees,
charges, or surcharges otherwise required by this chapter; and
         (h)   Prior to accepting a proposed discharge of trucked or hauled
pollutants, the POTW may be required to evaluate the capacity of the POTW to
accept such wastes by means including, but not limited to, a headworks analysis
or treatability study, as determined necessary by the POTW. All such evaluation
and analysis shall be at the sole cost of the user proposing the discharge and
shall be paid in full by the user whether or not the discharge of the trucked
or hauled pollutants is ultimately approved by the POTW. The POTW may require
the user to post a deposit or other form of surety, as determined sufficient
and appropriate by the POTW, to ensure payment by the user of all such costs.
      (11)   Wastewater with objectionable color or light absorbency
characteristics that may interfere with treatment processes or analytical
determinations including, without limitation, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (12)   Any garbage or other solid material that has not been properly
shredded;
      (13)   Solvent extractibles including, without limitation, oil, grease,
wax, or fat, whether emulsified or not, in excess of applicable local limits;
or other substances that may solidify or become viscous (with a viscosity of
110% of water) at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F in amounts that may cause
obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the operation of
the POTW;
      (14)   Soluble substances in a concentration that may increase the
viscosity to greater than 10% over the viscosity of the water or in amounts
that will cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      (15)   Any substance that exerts or causes a high or unusual
concentration of inert suspended solids including, but not limited to, lime
slurries, diatomaceous earth, and lime residues;
      (16)   Any wastewater that contains suspended solids of such character,
quantity, or concentration that special attention is required, or additional
expense incurred, to process such materials at the POTW;
      (17)   Any substance that exerts or causes a high or unusual
concentration of dissolved solids including, but not limited to, sodium
chloride or sodium sulfate;
      (18)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, fumes, or solids that either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance, cause workplace conditions in violation of any applicable workplace
health or safety standard, pose a hazard to life, sufficient to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance and repair, or cause any hazardous or unsafe
conditions for the general public;
      (19)   Antifreeze, motor oil, brake fluid, transmission fluid, hydraulic
fluid, cleaning solvents, oil-based paint, water-based paint with mercury
biocides, and paint thinners;
      (20)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
that may exceed limits established by applicable state or federal laws, rules,
or regulations;
      (21)   Any pollutant that results in excess foaming during the treatment
process. Excess foaming is any foam that, in the opinion of the POTW Manager,
may interfere with the treatment process;
      (22)   Wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard;
      (23)   Any hazardous waste as defined by this chapter;
      (24)   Any medical or infectious wastes, as defined by the State
Department of Environmental Quality;
      (25)   Any substance that may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation, reuse, or disposal, or otherwise interfere with the reclamation,
reuse, or disposal process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW
cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria,
guidelines, or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act; under the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., (including Title II,
more commonly referred to as RCRA, and including state regulations contained in
any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA);
the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; the Marine Protection, Research,
and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 1401 et seq.; or any
more stringent state or local regulations, as applicable;
      (26)   Any unpolluted water, noncontact cooling water, stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, or subsurface drainage (except to a
storm sewer or a combined sewer as authorized by this chapter and other
applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations and subject to the
prior approval of the POTW Manager, and the MDEQ);
      (27)   Any contaminated groundwater or landfill leachate determined by
the POTW to have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the operation of
the POTW, to result in pass-through or interference, or to violate any
pretreatment standard or requirement;
      (28)   Any substance that will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
permit, the receiving water quality standards, or associated local, state, or
federal laws, rules, or regulations;
      (29)   Any substance which causes a high chlorine demand including, but
not limited to, nitrite, cyanide, thiocyanate, sulfite, and thiosulfate;
      (30)   Any wastewater that exceeds applicable categorical pretreatment
standards, requirements, or limits prescribed by local, state, or federal laws,
rules, or regulations;
      (31)   Any compatible or incompatible pollutant in excess of the allowed
limits as determined by applicable local, state, or federal laws, rules, or
regulations;
      (32)   Any sludge, precipitate, or waste resulting from any industrial or
commercial treatment or pretreatment of any person’s wastewater or air
pollutants;
      (33)   Residue (total on evaporation) in an amount that will cause
obstruction to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      (34)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment to only such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
      (35)   Any non-domestic wastewater before the POTW has approved a notice
of intent submitted according to §
53.143;
      (36)   Waste not typically discharged to a sanitary sewer system unless
specifically authorized by the POTW pursuant to policies and procedures
established by the village and subject to limitations set forth in this
chapter;
      (37)   Any mass, concentration, or volume of a substance in excess of the
amount allowed in the user’s user permit; and/or
      (38)   Any pollutant, substance, or wastewater that, either directly or
indirectly, and either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, has a
reasonable potential to:
         (a)   Create a chemical reaction with any materials of construction to
impair the strength or durability of sewer structures;
         (b)   Cause a mechanical action that will damage or destroy sewer
structures;
         (c)   Impede or restrict the hydraulic capacity of the POTW;
         (d)   Interfere with normal inspection or maintenance of sewer
structures;
         (e)   Place unusual demands upon the wastewater treatment equipment or
processes by biological, chemical, or physical means; or
         (f)   Cause a hazard to human life or create a public nuisance.
   (D)   Pollutant reduction plans. If the POTW Manager determines that a user
has the reasonable potential to discharge any regulated pollutant (including,
but not limited to, mercury or PCBs) to the POTW in quantities or magnitude
that may cause interference or pass-through; adversely impact the POTW, its
processes or beneficial use of biosolids; cause noncompliance with applicable
federal or state laws or regulations; cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
permit, or otherwise fail to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter,
then the POTW Manager may require the user to develop, submit for approval, and
implement a reduction plan (“RP”) for the pollutant, as provided by this
section. The RP may be imposed as a condition to a user permit, or may be
required independently and even if a user permit has not been issued to the
user.
      (1)   At a minimum, the RP shall contain such requirements and
conditions, as determined necessary by the POTW Manager to ensure that the
pollutant reduction efforts will be effective in achieving the goals of this
chapter (including, but not limited to: requirements and conditions regarding
user source identification; best management practices; schedules of compliance;
monitoring, sampling and analysis; reporting; treatment system for removal of
the pollutant from the discharged wastewater; written procedures for disposal
of contaminated wastes and wastewater; employee training, and ongoing employee
training requirements regarding pollutant related issues; elimination, if
feasible, of any purchased materials containing the pollutant; and any other
elements determined necessary and appropriate under the circumstances by the
POTW Manager).
      (2)   The goal of an RP shall be to maintain the amount of one or more
pollutants or substances at or below the applicable discharge limits or levels,
or such other goals as required by the POTW. The POTW Manager may, in the POTW
Manager’s discretion, consider cost effectiveness during the development and
implementation of an RP.
      (3)   The POTW Manager may require any user to submit an RP that
describes the control strategy designed to proceed toward achievement of the
specified goal and shall at a minimum include, but shall not be limited to, all
of the following as determined necessary by the POTW Manager on a case-by-case
basis:
         (a)   Periodic monitoring for the pollutant in the user’s discharge;
         (b)   Periodic monitoring of the potential sources of the pollutant in
the user’s discharge;
         (c)   A commitment by the user that reasonable control measures and/or
best management practices will be implemented when sources of the pollutant are
discovered. Factors to be considered by the POTW may include the following:
            1.   Significance of sources;
            2.   Economic considerations;
            3.   Technical and treatability considerations; and
            4.   Such other factors as determined appropriate by the POTW
Manager.
         (d)   An annual status report. The report shall be sent by the user to
the POTW and shall include, at a minimum, all of the following:
            1.   All RP monitoring results for the previous year;
            2.   A list of potential sources of the pollutant in the user’s
discharge; and
            3.   A summary of all actions taken by the user to reduce or
eliminate the identified sources of the pollutant or substance.
      (4)   As determined necessary by the POTW Manager, the Manager may
require a user to develop, submit, and implement an RP for any pollutant or
substance regulated by this chapter. The POTW Manager may also modify an
approved RP at any time as determined necessary by the POTW Manager to meet the
goals and objectives of this chapter.
      (5)   Failure to submit an approvable RP within the specified deadlines
or to fully and timely comply with any condition or requirement of an approved
RP shall constitute a violation of this chapter, subject to the fine, penalty,
and other enforcement provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Holding enforcement action in abeyance. Except as provided for in
divisions (D)(6)(c)4. and (D)(6)(c)6. below, if the effluent sample analysis
results of a user’s discharge exceeds the applicable discharge limit, detection
level, or quantification level for a pollutant, the POTW Manager may, in the
POTW Manager’s sole discretion, nevertheless allow that discharge to continue
and may hold any enforcement action regarding the prohibited discharge in
abeyance, subject to the terms, conditions, and requirements of this division
(D)(6), as follows.
         (a)   If effluent sample analysis results exceeds the applicable
discharge limit, detection level, or quantification level for a pollutant for
which an approved RP is already in place, then the POTW Manager may, in the
POTW Manager’s sole discretion, nevertheless allow that discharge to continue
and may hold any enforcement action regarding the prohibited discharge in
abeyance for the period that the sample represents if the RP (and all terms,
conditions, and requirements thereof) is being fully and continually performed
in good faith by the user, as determined by the POTW Manager, and subject to
all of the requirements and conditions of division (D)(6)(c) below.
         (b)   If effluent sample analysis results exceeds the applicable
discharge limit, detection level, or quantification level for a pollutant for
which an approved RP is not already in place, then the POTW Manager may, in the
POTW Manager’s sole discretion, nevertheless allow that discharge to continue
and may hold any enforcement regarding the prohibited discharge in abeyance,
subject to all of the requirements and conditions of division (D)(6)(c) below,
and provided further as follows: the user with the noncompliant discharge shall
develop and implement an RP approved by the POTW Manager to minimize the user’s
discharges of the pollutant in question to the POTW. The RP shall meet all of
the requirements of this division (D).
         (c)   The following requirements and conditions shall apply to any
situation under this division (D)(6) in which an enforcement action is held in
abeyance as provided by this division (D)(6)(c) (regardless of whether or not
an RP was in place at the time of the noncompliance).
            1.   The user with the noncompliant discharge shall have a POTW-
accessible point for monitoring all discharges from the user to the POTW, as
approved by the POTW. All costs and expenses for and related to the
installation and maintenance of this monitoring point and any required sampling
devices shall be paid for solely by the user.
            2.   The user with the noncompliant discharge shall routinely self
monitor its discharges to the POTW for the pollutant in question using the
sampling methods, procedures, preservation, and handling, and analytical
protocol required by the POTW Manager and at the frequency specified by the
POTW Manager. All costs and expenses of this sampling and analysis shall be
paid for solely by the user.
            3.   The POTW may collect any additional samples of the user’s
discharge as determined necessary by the POTW Manager, all costs and expenses
to be paid for by the user.
            4.   If the user complies with all of the requirements and
conditions for the RP as specified by the POTW Manager; and if the POTW Manager
determines that all reasonable and cost-effective actions based on the
economic, technical, and treatability considerations including, but not limited
to, all elements of the user’s RP, have been, and continue to be, fully and
satisfactorily implemented by the user; and if the user’s discharge does not
cause interference or pass-through; adversely impact the POTW, its processes or
beneficial use of biosolids; cause noncompliance with applicable federal or
state laws or regulations; cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit; or
otherwise fail to meet the purposes and objectives of this chapter: then the
POTW may, in its discretion, hold enforcement action in abeyance and allow the
user to continue the noncompliant discharge.
            5.   Notwithstanding any provision of this division (D)(6) to the
contrary, and regardless of whether a user fully complies with all requirements
and conditions of this section and/or of an approved RP, the POTW Manager shall
have the unconditional right to prohibit and terminate any noncompliant
discharge at any time and without prior notice, and to take any enforcement
action in response thereto, including any enforcement action that had
previously been held in abeyance under this division (D)(6).
            6.   Notwithstanding any provision of this division (D)(6) to the
contrary, the POTW Manager shall not hold an enforcement action in abeyance as
provided by this division (D)(6) for any pollutant parameter other than mercury
and PCBs unless the POTW Manager has first obtained approval from the MDEQ to
implement the requirements of this division (D)(6) for the specific pollutant
parameter in question.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.086 PRETREATMENT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance with applicable standards and requirements. The national
categorical pretreatment standards as established for specific industries under
40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N are hereby made a part of the requirements of
this chapter in accordance with federal and state laws and regulations, and are
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this chapter. A user shall
comply with all categorical pretreatment standards and any other pretreatment
requirements established under the Act that are applicable to that user. A user
shall also comply with all other applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements established under this chapter or under state and federal laws and
regulations.
   (B)   Deadlines for compliance. Compliance by existing sources with
categorical pretreatment standards shall be within three years of the date the
standard is effective unless a shorter compliance time is specified by 40
C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N. Existing sources that become industrial users
subsequent to promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
shall be considered existing industrial users except where such sources meet
the definition of new source. New sources shall install and have in operating
condition, and shall start up all pollution control equipment required to meet
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements before beginning to
discharge. Within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days), new
sources must meet all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (C)   Alternative categorical limits. Categorical pretreatment standards
shall apply to a user subject to categorical standards, unless an enforceable
alternative limit to the corresponding national categorical standards is
derived using any of the methods specified in M.A.C. R § 323.2313 (regarding
removal credits, fundamentally different factor variances, net/gross
calculations, equivalent mass per day limitations, and combined waste stream
formula alternative limitations). The use of any alternative categorical limit
shall be subject to the prior approval of the POTW Manager. If local limits are
more stringent than derived alternative categorical limits, the local limits
shall control.
   (D)   Compliance with other applicable laws and regulations. Users of the
POTW shall comply with all local, state, and federal laws and regulations that
may apply to their discharges to the POTW including, but not limited to,
Article II, Air Pollution Control, Public Act 451 of 1994, part 55 (the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.087 VILLAGE’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The village reserves the right to establish more restrictive prohibitions,
limitations, and requirements for discharges to the POTW to prevent
interference or pass-through, to protect the POTW, to comply with applicable
federal or state laws or regulations, to comply with the POTW’s NPDES permit,
or as otherwise determined necessary by the POTW Manager.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.088 POTW’S RIGHT TO REFUSE OR CONDITION DISCHARGE.
   The POTW may refuse to accept, or may condition its acceptance of, all or
any portion of any proposed or existing discharge to the POTW from any person,
regardless of whether or not a user permit has been issued for the discharge,
if the POTW Manager determines that the discharge has a reasonable potential
to: adversely affect the operation of the POTW; result in pass-through or
interference; violate any pretreatment standard or requirement; cause the POTW
to violate its NPDES permit; or if the impacts of the discharge on the POTW or
the POTW’s discharge are uncertain or unknown (because, for example, no local
limits or headworks analysis has been conducted for particular pollutants in
the discharge). If the POTW Manager denies any person permission to commence or
continue all or any portion of a discharge to the POTW, the person shall
refrain from commencing to discharge or shall immediately terminate the
discharge to the POTW and shall not thereafter recommence discharge without
written authorization from the POTW Manager. Similarly, if the POTW Manager
denies any person permission to commence or continue all or any portion of a
discharge to the POTW except subject to conditions determined necessary and
appropriate by the POTW Manager, the person shall refrain from commencing or
continuing the discharge except in full compliance with those conditions. This
includes, but is not limited to, the POTW Manager’s right to revise or revoke
user permits.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.089 MOST RESTRICTIVE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS APPLY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
most stringent or restrictive standard or requirement applicable to a user’s
discharge shall control, whether established by this chapter, by any notice,
order, permit, decision, or determination promulgated, issued, or made by the
POTW under this chapter, by state laws or regulations, including the POTW’s
NPDES permit, or by federal laws or regulations.
   (B)   Further, if state or federal laws or regulations provide for standards
and requirements not covered by this chapter that are otherwise applicable to a
user’s discharge, those standards and requirements shall apply to the user in
addition to those required by this chapter, and the most restrictive of those
additional standards or requirements shall control and shall be complied with
by the user within the time period required by the law or regulation.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.090 DILUTION PROHIBITED AS SUBSTITUTE FOR TREATMENT.
   Unless expressly authorized to do so by an applicable pretreatment standard
or requirement and subject to the prior approval of the POTW Manager, no user
shall ever increase the use of process water, mix separate waste streams, or in
any other way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute
for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a federal, state, or local
standard, requirement, or limitation. The POTW may impose mass limitations on
non-domestic users that are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements and in other cases where the imposition of mass
limitations is appropriate. No user intending to use dilution as a substitute
for treatment shall do so without the prior approval of the POTW Manager
consistent with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
USER PERMITS
§ 53.105 USER PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful and prohibited for any significant industrial user
(SIU), or any other user as determined necessary by the POTW Manager to carry
out the purposes of this chapter, to discharge to the POTW without an
industrial user permit as provided by this subchapter.
   (B)   The POTW Manager may require any user other than a SIU to obtain a
general user permit to discharge to the POTW, subject to such terms and
conditions as are determined necessary and appropriate by the POTW to achieve
the purposes, policies, and objectives of this chapter.
      (1)   A general user permit may contain, but shall not be required to
contain, any of the terms and conditions that would apply to an industrial user
permit issued to a SIU as provided by this subchapter to comply with the
general and specific discharge prohibitions of this chapter including, but not
limited to: discharge limitations and requirements regarding sampling and
monitoring; pretreatment; pollution prevention, minimization or reductions
plans; accidental discharge, spill prevention, and containment requirements;
flow equalization; and implementation of best management practices or a best
management practices plan.
      (2)   To the extent determined appropriate by the POTW Manager on a case-
by-case basis, a general user permit issued under this division (B) shall be
subject to provisions otherwise applicable to permits for SIUs. However, all
general user permits shall be nontransferable, and are subject to the permit
fee and permit appeals provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   It is unlawful and prohibited for any user required by the POTW
Manager to obtain a general user permit to discharge to the POTW without a
general user permit as provided by this subchapter.
      (4)   Failure to comply with a general user permit issued under this
division (B) constitutes a violation of this chapter.
      (5)   In no case shall a general user permit be construed to authorize
the illegal discharge or otherwise excuse a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any violation of the terms or conditions of a user permit is a
violation of this chapter, subject to the fine, penalty, and other enforcement
provisions of this chapter. Obtaining a user permit shall not relieve a user of
its obligation to obtain other permits or approvals that may be required by
other local, state, or federal laws or regulations.
   (D)   The issuance of a user permit shall not convey to a user any property
rights or privilege of any kind whatsoever, nor shall it be construed to
authorize any injury to private or public property or any invasion of personal
rights, nor any violation of local, state, or federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.106 DETERMINATION OF USER STATUS.
   (A)   The POTW may require any user to submit information to the POTW for
its use in determining whether the user’s status including, but not limited to,
whether the user is a SIU, as well as to determine changes or the absence or
inadequacy of changes in a user’s facilities.
   (B)   The POTW shall notify a non-domestic user of the POTW’s belief that
the user is, or may be, a SIU. Upon such notification, the user must complete
and submit an application for an industrial user permit on a form furnished by
the POTW. The failure of the POTW to so notify a non-domestic user shall not
relieve any SIU of the duty to obtain a permit as required by this chapter.
   (C)   Upon determination that user permit is required, no connection to the
POTW shall be made and no discharge thereto shall occur until a permit is duly
issued; provided, however, that the POTW may, at its discretion, issue a
written authorization in place of a permit, which authorization shall be valid
for a period not to exceed 60 days.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.107 PERMIT APPLICATION DEADLINES.
   (A)   Each user must file an application for a user permit on the form
provided by the POTW within the following deadlines.
      (1)   Existing SIUs. Any SIU discharging into the POTW as of the
effective date of this chapter shall submit a completed permit application form
to the POTW as provided by this subchapter within 60 days of being so directed
and provided a form by the POTW.
      (2)   Proposed new SIUs. Any SIU proposing to commence (or recommence)
discharging into the POTW after the effective date of this chapter shall, at
least 60 days prior to the anticipated date on which discharging will commence
(or recommence), request a permit application form and submit the completed
application to the POTW.
      (3)   Categorical users subject to new standard. A user which becomes
subject to a new or revised national categorical pretreatment standard, and
which has not previously submitted an application for a permit as required
herein, shall apply to the POTW for an industrial user permit within 90 days
after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard. The POTW may also initiate this action; however, the failure of the
POTW so to do shall not relieve a user of its obligation to obtain a permit.
      (4)   Other users. Any other user directed by the POTW to complete and
submit a user permit application shall do so within 60 days of being so
directed by the POTW and provided a form by the POTW.
   (B)   Any user not required to obtain a user permit for existing discharges
must apply for and receive a user permit prior to changing the user’s discharge
in such a manner that the resulting discharge would require a user permit.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.108 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All users shall submit the information required by this section on the
user permit application form supplied by the POTW (or attached thereto) at a
level of detail and in units and terms as determined necessary by the POTW to
adequately evaluate the application, accompanied by payment of a permit
application review fee.
   (B)   A separate application and supporting documentation shall be submitted
for each separate location for which a user permit is required.
   (C)   The information required is as follows:
      (1)   The name, address, and location of the facility or premises from
which discharge will be made, including the names of the owner(s) and operator
(s) of the facility or premises;
      (2)   Corporate or individual name, federal employer identification
number, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (3)   Whether the user is a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, or
other type of entity, and the name of the person(s) responsible for discharges
by the user;
      (4)   Name and title of the local authorized representative of the user
who will have the authority to bind the applicant financially and legally, and
who is authorized by the applicant as its agent to accept service of legal
process, and the address and telephone number of such representative;
      (5)   The Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) numbers of all
processes at the location for which application is made, according to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, as amended (or, if applicable, the
North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) designation);
      (6)   Actual or proposed wastewater constituents and characteristics for
each parameter listed in the permit application including, but not limited to,
any pollutants that are limited or regulated by any federal, state, or local
standards or requirements. The information provided for such parameters shall
include all of the following:
         (a)   Pollutants having numeric or narrative limitations as provided
by this chapter;
         (b)   Pollutants limited by national categorical pretreatment
standards regulations for similar industries;
         (c)   For each parameter, the expected or experienced maximum and
average concentrations during a one-year period shall be provided;
         (d)   For industries subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements, the data required shall be separately shown for each
categorical process waste stream and shall include all information required in
§
53.136(A) for a baseline monitoring report; and
         (e)   Combined waste streams proposed to be regulated by the combined
waste stream formula shall be specified.
      (7)   For purposes of information required by the application, sampling
and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the following: procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act, and as contained in 40
C.F.R. part 136, as amended. If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling
or analytical technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with the procedures in the EPA publication
Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants, April 1977, and amendments or revisions thereto, or where
appropriate and applicable, in accordance with any other sampling and
analytical procedures approved by the EPA;
      (8)   A listing and description of the following: plant activities; plant
facilities; and plant processes on the premises for which the permit is being
applied. Processes that are subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements shall be so designated, and identification of which
pollutants are associated with each process shall be stated;
      (9)   A listing of raw materials and chemicals that are either used in
the manufacturing process or could yield the pollutants referred to in this
section. Any user claiming immunity from having to provide such information
shall furnish proof of such immunity that is acceptable to the POTW Manager and
in accordance with all applicable local, state, and federal laws and
regulations;
      (10)   (a)   A statement containing information on the spill containment
and prevention of accidental/spill discharges program for each of the
pollutants referred to in this section. The information provided shall include
the following:
            1.   The approximate average and maximum quantities of such
substances kept on the premises in the form of the following: raw materials;
chemicals; and/or wastes therefrom; and
            2.   The containment capacity for each of the above items.
         (b)   The following requirements apply for purposes of the spill
containment and prevention statement required by this division (C)(10).
            1.   For raw materials, chemical solutions, or waste materials that
do not contain any substance on the critical materials register promulgated by
the State Department of Environmental Quality, only substances which are in a
form which could readily be carried into the sewerage system and which
constitute a concentration of 5% or greater on a dry weight basis in the raw
material, chemical solution, or waste material are required to be included in
the statement. Volumes of less than 55 gallons or the equivalent need not be
included unless lesser quantities could cause interference or pass-through to
the sewerage system.
            2.   For raw materials, chemical solutions, or waste materials that
contain any amount of any substance on the critical materials register
promulgated by the State Department of Environmental Quality, the statement
shall include the name of the substance and the expected concentration so that
the POTW Manager can determine whether or not it may constitute a threat to the
POTW if a spill occurs.
      (11)   The name and address of each laboratory performing analytical work
for the user submitting the application;
      (12)   A description of typical daily and weekly operating cycles for
each process in terms of starting and ending times for each of the seven days
of the week;
      (13)   Average and maximum 24-hour wastewater flow rates, including 30-
minute peak wastewater flow rates, and daily, monthly, and seasonal variations,
if any; and a list of each national categorical process waste stream flow rate
and the cooling water, sanitary water, and stormwater flow rates separately for
each connection to the POTW, and list showing each combined waste stream;
      (14)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by
the size, location, elevation, and points or places of discharges into the
POTW;
      (15)   A flow schematic drawing showing which connections receive each
national categorical process waste stream or other process waste streams, and
which connections receive stormwater, sanitary water, or cooling water;
      (16)   A schematic drawing showing which sewers handle each combined
waste stream;
      (17)   Each product produced by type, amount, process, or processes and
the rate of production as pertains to processes subject to production-based
limits under national categorical standards or requirements shall be specified;
      (18)   Actual or proposed hours of operation of each pretreatment system
for each production process;
      (19)   A description and schematic drawing showing each pretreatment
facility, identifying whether each such facility is of the batch type or
continuous process type;
      (20)   If other than potable water is used, identification of the user’s
source of intake water together with the types of usage and disposal method of
each water source and the estimated wastewater volume from each source;
      (21)   A statement regarding whether the requirements of this chapter and
the national categorical pretreatment standards and requirements are being met
on a consistent basis; and if not, what additional operation and maintenance
work and/or additional construction is required for the user to comply with
applicable standards and requirements;
      (22)   A list of all environmental permits (and, if requested by the POTW
Manager, a copy of any environmental permit) held by the user applicable to the
premises for which the user permit is being sought;
      (23)   Whether additional operation and maintenance (O and M) and/or
additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet all applicable
federal, state, and local pretreatment standards and requirements. If
additional O and M or additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
applicable standards and requirements, then the user shall indicate the
shortest time schedule necessary to accomplish installation or adoption of the
additional O and M and/or pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be longer than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (including, without limitation,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction, beginning operation, and conducting routine operation). No
increment referred to above shall exceed nine months, nor shall the total
compliance period exceed 18 months.
         (b)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event shall more than
nine months elapse between submission of the progress reports to the POTW.
      (24)   Any other information determined necessary by the POTW to
adequately evaluate the application. To the extent that actual data is not
available for a new source, the applicant shall supply estimated or expected
information; and
      (25)   All applications (and reapplications) shall be signed and
certified by an authorized representative of the user as defined by this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.109 PERMIT ISSUANCE, DENIAL, OR DETERMINATION THAT PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The POTW shall evaluate the application information furnished by a
user and may require additional information as necessary to complete and
properly review the application. No action shall be taken by the POTW on an
application (and the 120-day review period as provided by this division (A)
shall not begin to run) until the application is determined to be complete by
the POTW Manager. Within 120 days after the submission of a complete
application (unless the POTW and the applicant agree to extend this time
period), the POTW shall either issue a user permit subject to terms and
conditions provided by this chapter, deny the application, or determine that a
permit is not required as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   A user permit may be denied by the POTW:
      (1)   If the POTW determines that the proposed discharge, or continued
discharge, will not comply with all applicable standards and requirements of
this chapter;
      (2)   If the user refuses, fails, or declines to accept the terms and
conditions of a permit as proposed to be issued by the POTW;
      (3)   For any reason that would support a suspension or revocation of the
permit as provided by this chapter;
      (4)   If the POTW determines that the POTW cannot adequately or
reasonably treat the user’s discharge (due to insufficient capacity, the
quality or quantity of the pollutants, available POTW resource, and the like);
      (5)   If the POTW is not satisfied that the user has not taken all
reasonable steps to prevent, minimize, or reduce pollutants in the user’s
discharge;
      (6)   To prevent the discharge of pollutants into the POTW, singly or in
combination with other pollutants, for which there is a reasonable potential,
as determined by the POTW Manager, to:
         (a)   Not meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements;
         (b)   Interfere with the operation of the POTW;
         (c)   Pass-through the POTW into the receiving waters or the
atmosphere;
         (d)   Inhibit or disrupt the POTW’s processing, use, or disposal of
sludge;
         (e)   Cause health or safety problems for POTW workers; or
         (f)   Result in a violation of the POTW’s NPDES permit or of other
applicable laws and regulations.
      (7)   If the POTW determines that there is not, or will not be,
sufficient capacity available (in both wastewater volume and strength) for a
proposed discharge in all downstream sewers, pump stations, interceptors, and
force mains including, but not limited to, adequate capacity to accept, treat,
and dispose of BOD, TSS, or similar materials as required by applicable local,
state, or federal laws, rules, or regulations; or
      (8)   For any other reason determined by the POTW Manager as necessary
and appropriate to protect the POTW or to meet the purposes and intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.110 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   User permits shall be subject to all provisions of this chapter and
all other applicable regulations, user charges, and fees established by the
POTW. Further, user permits incorporate by reference all provisions,
regulations, and requirements of this chapter without setting them forth in
full therein.
   (B)   Industrial user permits shall at a minimum include all of the
conditions required by M.A.C. R 323.2306(a)(iii). In addition, user permits
shall include any conditions determined reasonably necessary by the POTW
Manager to prevent pass-through or interference, to protect the quality of the
receiving waters, to protect worker health and safety, to facilitate POTW
sludge management and disposal, to protect ambient air quality, to protect
against damage to the POTW, or to otherwise achieve the objectives of this
chapter including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Limits on the average and/or maximum concentration, mass, or other
measure of identified wastewater constituents or properties;
      (3)   Requirements for installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, or similar requirements
designed to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the treatment works;
      (4)   Development and implementation of slug discharge control plans,
spill control plans, or other special conditions, including additional
management practices necessary to adequately prevent accidental or
unanticipated discharges;
      (5)   Requirements for installation, maintenance, repair, calibration,
and operation of inspection and sampling facilities and discharge flow
monitors;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which shall include, but are
not limited to, sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and
standards for tests, and reporting schedules;
      (7)   Compliance schedules;
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the POTW and affording the POTW access
to those records;
      (10)   Requirements for notifying the POTW if self-monitoring indicates a
violation as provided by §
53.139, and for repeat sampling and analysis as provided by §
53.166;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of any new introductions of
wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater being introduced into the POTW, including listed or
characteristic hazardous waste for which the user has submitted initial
notification under M.A.C. R 323.2310(15);
      (12)   Requirements for the notification of any change in the
manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by the permittee;
      (13)   Requirements for notification of accidental or slug discharges, or
discharges that exceed a discharge prohibition;
      (14)   Requirements for notification and need for prior approval from the
POTW Manager for any proposed change in a sampling location;
      (15)   A statement regarding limitations on transferability of the
permit;
      (16)   A statement of the duration of the permit;
      (17)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements, including those that become effective during the
term of the permit;
      (18)   Requirements for a written certification signed by the permittee
that acknowledges that the permittee has read and fully understands all terms
and conditions of the permit; and acknowledges that the permittee accepts all
of the terms and conditions of the permit as written and accepts full
responsibility for complying with the permit as approved;
      (19)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of discharge limitations, pretreatment standards and requirements,
and compliance schedules;
      (20)   Requirements regarding development by a user of a pollutant
prevention, minimization, or reduction plan (e.g., for mercury or PCBs) or
requirements regarding use of best management practices to control, contain,
treat, prevent, or reduce the discharge of wastewater, pollutants, or other
substances to the POTW, or otherwise meet the purposes, policies, and
objectives of this chapter; and/or
      (21)   Other conditions as determined necessary by the POTW Manager to
ensure compliance with this chapter and other applicable laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (C)   If the POTW determines that a user is discharging substances of a
quality, in a quantity, or in a location that may cause problems to the POTW or
the receiving stream, the POTW has the authority to develop and enforce
effluent limits applicable to the user’s discharge.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.111 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A user permit may be modified by the POTW at any time and for any
reason determined necessary by the POTW Manager to assure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations
including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements, or other applicable requirement of law
or regulation;
      (2)   Material or substantial changes or additions to the permittee’s
operations, processes, or the character or quality of discharge that were not
considered in drafting or issuing the existing permit. It shall be the duty of
a user to request an application form and to apply for a modification of the
permit within 30 days of any such change(s). The POTW may modify a permit on
its own initiative based on its findings or upon reasonable cause to believe
that any such change(s) has occurred or threatens to occur;
      (3)   A change in any condition in the permittee’s discharge, facility,
production, or operations, or in the POTW, that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the permittee’s discharge to assure
compliance with applicable laws, regulations, or the POTW’s NPDES permit;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to: collection or treatment systems; the POTW’s processing, use, or disposal of
sludge; POTW personnel; or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the user’s permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully all relevant facts
in the permit application or in any required report or notice;
      (7)   Revision of, or a grant of a variance from, applicable categorical
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the permit;
      (9)   To reflect transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to a
new owner or operator;
      (10)   To add or revise a compliance schedule for the permittee;
      (11)   To reflect changes or revisions in the POTW’s NPDES permit;
      (12)   To ensure POTW compliance with applicable sludge management
requirements promulgated by the EPA;
      (13)   To incorporate any new or revised requirements resulting from
reevaluation of the POTW’s local limits; and
      (14)   To incorporate a request for modification by the permittee, as
determined appropriate by the POTW, and provided the request does not create a
violation of any applicable requirement, standard, law, rule, or regulation.
   (B)   The permittee shall be informed of any changes in the permit at least
30 days prior to the effective date of the change, unless a shorter time is
determined necessary by the POTW to meet applicable laws, to protect human
health or the environment, or to facilitate an enforcement action.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.112 PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   Industrial user permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years, subject to modification, reissuance, suspension, or
revocation as provided by this subchapter. At the discretion of the POTW, an
industrial user permit may be issued for a period less than five years and may
be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (B)   General user permits may be issued for any time period determined
appropriate by the POTW Manager, subject to modification, reissuance,
suspension, or revocation as provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.113 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   (A)   To apply for reissuance of an existing user permit, a user must submit
a complete permit application to the POTW accompanied by payment of an
application fee at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
permit (or at least 180 days prior to the expiration of a five-year permit).
The application shall be submitted in a form prescribed by the POTW. It shall
be the responsibility of the user to make a timely application for reissuance.
   (B)   All user permits issued to a particular user are void upon the
issuance of a new user permit to that user.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.114 CONTINUATION OF EXPIRED PERMITS.
   An expired user permit will continue to be effective until the permit is
reissued only if: the user has submitted a complete permit application at least
90 days prior to the expiration date of the user’s existing permit (or at least
180 days prior to the expiration date of a five-year permit); and the failure
to reissue the permit, prior to expiration of the previous permit, is not due
to any act or failure to act on the part of the user; provided, however, in no
case may a permit continue for a period of more than five years from the date
of issuance. In all other cases, discharge to the POTW following expiration of
a permit is unlawful.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.115 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   User permits may be suspended or permanently revoked by the POTW for
any reason determined necessary by the POTW to assure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter, the POTW’s NPDES permit, or other applicable laws
and regulations including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (2)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (3)   Failure to allow timely and reasonable access to the permittee’s
premises and records by representatives of the POTW for purposes authorized by
this chapter including, without limitation, inspection or monitoring;
      (4)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (5)   Failure to pay fines or penalties;
      (6)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (7)   Failure to pay permit fees;
      (8)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (9)   Failure to comply with any term or condition of the permit, an
order, the requirements of this chapter, or any final judicial order entered
with respect thereto;
      (10)   Failure to comply with any reporting or notice requirement;
      (11)   Failure to disclose fully all relevant facts in the permit
application or during the permit issuance process, or misrepresentation of any
relevant fact at any time;
      (12)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the user permit
application; and
      (13)   As determined by the POTW, the discharge permitted by the permit
has a reasonable potential to endanger human health or the environment and the
threat can be abated only by suspension or revocation of the permit.
   (B)   Upon suspension or revocation of a permit, a user shall immediately
terminate its discharge to the POTW and shall not thereafter recommence
discharge without further authorization from the POTW Manager as provided by
this chapter. The POTW may reissue a revoked permit upon a showing satisfactory
to the POTW Manager that the permittee has corrected the violation or condition
that led to the revocation. A person who has had a permit revoked may apply for
a new permit.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.116 LIMITATIONS ON PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   A user permit is issued to a specific user for discharge from a
specific facility and operation and shall not be assigned or transferred or
sold to a new or different owner, operator, user, discharger, facility, or
premises, or to a new or changed facility or operation, without the prior
written approval of the POTW. If the transfer of a permit is approved, any
succeeding transferee permittee must also comply with the terms and conditions
of the existing permit. The POTW shall approve the transfer of a permit only if
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The transferor (permittee) shall give at least 60 days’ advance
notice to the POTW of the proposed transfer of the permit (unless a shorter
notice period is approved by the POTW in advance). The notice shall include a
written certification signed by the proposed transferee that: states that the
transferee has no present intent to change the facility’s operations and
processes; identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
acknowledges that the transferee has read and fully understands all terms and
conditions of the permit; and acknowledges that the transferee accepts all of
the terms and conditions of the permit as written and accepts full
responsibility for complying with the existing permit if the transfer is
approved;
      (2)   As of the date of the proposed transfer, there are no unpaid
charges, fines, penalties, or fees of any kind due to the POTW from the
transferor or the transferee related to use of the POTW;
      (3)   Except as to the identity of the new discharger (the transferee),
the application materials for the permit to be transferred as originally filed
by the transferor, as well as the terms and conditions of the permit itself,
are completely accurate with respect to, and fully applicable to, the
discharge, facilities, and activities of the transferee; and
      (4)   The permit transfer fee as established by the POTW has been paid to
the village.
   (B)   If the transfer of a permit is approved and the permit transfer fee
has been paid to the village, the POTW shall make the necessary minor
modifications to the permit to show the transferee as the permittee, and a copy
of the permit shall be provided to the transferee for signature and
certification by the transferee as provided by §
53.146. The transferor (permittee) shall remain liable for any discharges to
the POTW from the facility (along with any other persons actually discharging
from the facility to the POTW) until a transfer of the permit has been approved
as provided by this section.
   (C)   This section is not intended to, and shall not be construed to, limit
in any way the transfer of ownership of the property involved.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a user permit that does not comply with the
requirements of this section renders the permit void as of the date of the
invalid transfer.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.117 DUTY TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   Users shall furnish to the POTW any available information that the POTW
requests to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking, and
reissuing, or terminating a user permit, to determine compliance with a permit,
to determine whether a permit is required, or as otherwise determined necessary
by the POTW. Users shall also, upon request, furnish to the POTW copies of any
records required to be kept by a permit. The information and records requested
by the POTW shall be provided by the user to the POTW within 24 hours of the
request, unless an alternative time frame is specified by the POTW when making
the request or unless the POTW allows additional time for the user to submit
the requested information based on a showing by the user of good cause for any
delay. The user’s failure to submit the requested information to the POTW
within 24 hours (or within any alternate time period approved by the POTW as
provided by this section) shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.118 PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, an appeal to the POTW
Board of Appeals of any final decision made by the POTW Manager in connection
with issuing or implementing a user permit shall be governed by §§
53.325 through
53.330.
   (B)   An appealing party must specify in its notice of appeal the action of
the POTW being appealed and the grounds for the appeal.
   (C)   If a particular permit provision is objected to, the notice of appeal
must specify the reasons for the objection, and the alternative provision, if
any, sought to be placed in the permit.
   (D)   The effectiveness of a permit or any final decision made by the POTW
Manager shall not be stayed pending a decision by the POTW Board of Appeals.
   (E)   If, after considering the record on appeal including any statements
provided by the POTW in response to the appeal, the POTW Board of Appeals
determines that a permit or any provision of a permit should be reconsidered,
the POTW Board of Appeals shall remand the matter to the POTW Manager for
further action as determined appropriate by the POTW Board of Appeals. Specific
provisions of a permit that are remanded by the POTW Board of Appeals for
reconsideration by the POTW Manager shall be stayed pending further final
action taken by the POTW Manager as required by the decision of the POTW Board
of Appeals. A decision of the POTW Board of Appeals not to remand any matter
shall be considered final administrative action for purposes of judicial
review.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.119 PERMITS NOT STAYED.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided by §
53.118, no action taken or request filed by any permittee shall operate to stay
the effect of any permit or of any provision, term, or condition of any permit
including, without limitation, a request for permit modification, reissuance,
or transfer, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.120 PERMIT FEES.
   User permit fees shall be established, paid, and collected as provided by
this subchapter and §§
53.360 through
53.364.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
REPORTING AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.135 GENERALLY.
   All users shall comply with the minimum reporting and notice requirements
provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.136 REPORTS BY NON-DOMESTIC USERS REGARDING CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring reports. Within 180 days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final
administrative decision made upon a category determination submission under
M.A.C. R 323.2311(2), whichever is later, an existing non-domestic user subject
to the categorical pretreatment standards and that currently discharges or is
scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit a report to the POTW as
required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(2). At least 90 days prior to commencement of
discharge, new sources, and sources that become non-domestic users subsequent
to the promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard, shall
submit the reports to the POTW as required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(2). Any changes
to the information required to be submitted by a non-domestic user pursuant to
M.A.C. R 323.2310(2)(a) through (e) shall be submitted by the user to the POTW
within 60 days of when the user becomes aware of the change.
   (B)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the discharge to the POTW, any non-domestic user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit the reports to
the POTW required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(3).
   (C)   Periodic reports on continued compliance.
      (1)   Any non-domestic user subject to a categorical pretreatment
standard, after the compliance date of the categorical pretreatment standard,
or, in the case of a new source, after commencement of the discharge into the
public sewer or POTW, shall submit the periodic reports to the POTW required by
M.A.C. R 323.2310(4).
      (2)   These periodic reports shall be submitted at least once every six
months (during the months of June and December unless alternate months are
approved by the POTW), unless required more frequently by the applicable
pretreatment standard, by the POTW, or by the state.
      (3)   The reports shall include a record of all average and maximum daily
flows during the prior six-month reporting period, except that the POTW may
require more detailed reporting of flows. All flows shall be reported on the
basis of actual measurement unless the POTW agrees, due to cost or non-
feasibility, to accept verifiable estimates of the average and maximum flows
estimated using techniques approved by the POTW. The combined waste stream
formula may be used for reporting purposes after the initial information has
been furnished to the POTW, provided there has been no change to the elements
composing the combined waste stream. The results of sampling of the discharge
and analysis of pollutants appearing in the report shall be cross-referenced to
the related flow and mass to determine compliance with national categorical
pretreatment standards. In cases where the pretreatment standard requires
compliance with a best management practice (or pollution prevention
alternative), the user shall submit documentation required by the POTW or the
pretreatment standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.137 REPORTS REQUIRED FOR NON-DOMESTIC USERS NOT SUBJECT TO CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All non-domestic users not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards shall submit to the POTW periodic reports providing information
regarding the quality and quantity of wastewater and pollutants discharged into
the POTW (including, without limitation, information regarding the nature,
concentration (or mass), and flow of the discharge). These reports shall be
based on sampling and analysis performed in the period covered by the report in
accordance with the sampling, analysis, and monitoring requirements provided by
§§
53.160 through
53.170.
   (B)   For significant industrial users, the reports shall be submitted at
least once every six months for the preceding six months (during the months of
April and October unless alternate months are specified by the POTW), unless
required more frequently by the POTW. Criteria for selecting dates may depend
on site specific factors.
   (C)   If required by the POTW for non-domestic users other than significant
industrial users, the reports shall be submitted at least once every 12 months
for the preceding 12 months (during the month of October unless an alternate
month is specified by the POTW), unless required more frequently by the POTW.
   (D)   The reports for all non-domestic users shall be submitted on forms
provided by (or in a format required by) the POTW, and shall include, without
limitation: the volume of wastewater; the concentration of pollutants; the
names of all person(s) responsible for operating and maintaining any
pretreatment equipment, pretreatment processes, or responsible for wastewater
management at the user’s facilities, with a brief description of each person’s
duties; information regarding materials or substances that may cause
interference or pass-through; and any other information deemed necessary by the
POTW to assess and assure compliance with applicable discharge requirements or
to safeguard the operation of the POTW.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.138 NOTICE BY USER OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   All non-domestic users, whether or not subject to categorical pretreatment
standards, shall notify the POTW immediately by telephone of all discharges by
the user that could cause problems to the POTW including, without limitation,
accidental discharges, slug loadings, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic
nature, non-customary batch discharge, or discharges that exceed a discharge
prohibition or limitation provided by this chapter. The notification shall
include available information regarding the location of the discharge, its
volume, duration, constituents, loading and concentrations, corrective actions
taken and required, and other available information as necessary to determine
what impact the discharge may have on the POTW. A detailed written report
providing the same and any additional available information (including
specifying the measures that will be taken by the user to prevent similar
future discharges) shall also be provided by the user to be received by the
POTW Manager within five days of the incident.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.139 NOTICE BY USER OF VIOLATION OF PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   If sampling performed by a non-domestic user indicates a violation, the user
shall notify the POTW within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation (and
shall comply with other applicable requirements provided by §
53.166 regarding repeat sampling and analysis).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.140 NOTICE BY USER OF CHANGED DISCHARGE OR CHANGE IN USER STATUS.
   (A)   A non-domestic user shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in its discharge,
or of any facility expansion, production increase, or process modifications
that could result in a substantial change in the volume or character of
pollutants in its discharge.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, PROMPTLY means as soon as reasonably
possible, but in no event less than 60 days before the change.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE includes, without
limitation, any of the following:
      (1)   The discharge of any amount of a pollutant not identified in the
user’s permit application or in the permit issued;
      (2)   An increase in concentration (or degree) of any pollutant that
exceeds 10% of the concentration (or degree) for the pollutant as indicated in
any report required under §§
53.136 or
53.137;
      (3)   An increase in discharge volume that exceeds 10% of the volume as
indicated in any report required under §§
53.136 or
53.137;
      (4)   Any increase in the amount of any hazardous wastes discharged
including, without limitation, the hazardous wastes for which the user has
submitted initial notification under §
53.141;
      (5)   The discharge of any groundwaters purged for a removal or remedial
action;
      (6)   The discharge of any pollutants that are present in the discharge
due to infiltration;
      (7)   A change in discharge that may convert a non-domestic user into a
significant industrial user, or a non-domestic user into a categorical user;
and/or
      (8)   A change in discharge that would cause a change in the categorical
standards that apply to the user.
   (D)   In determining whether to accept any changed discharge, or, if so,
under what conditions, the POTW shall evaluate the changed discharge pursuant
to the general and specific discharge prohibitions under §
53.085 and other applicable provisions of this chapter. The user may be
required to submit such information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the
changed condition, including the submission of a user permit application.
   (E)   No user shall implement the planned changed conditions until and
unless the POTW Manager or his or her designee has responded to the user’s
notice.
   (F)   This section shall not be construed to authorize a discharge that
exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation provided by this chapter or a
permit.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.141 NOTICE BY USER REGARDING WASTES THAT ARE OTHERWISE HAZARDOUS.
   Any non-domestic user that discharges to the POTW a substance that, if
disposed of other than by discharge to the POTW, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 C.F.R. part 261 or under the rules promulgated under the State
Hazardous Waste Management Act (Public Act 451 of 1994, part 111, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101 et seq., as amended) shall notify the POTW Manager, the
EPA Region V Waste Management Subdivision Director, and the Chief of the Waste
Management Section of the State Department of Environmental Quality of the
discharge as required by M.A.C. R 323.2310(15).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.142 NOTICE BY USER REGARDING INSTALLATION OF NEW PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Within five days after completing installation of new pretreatment
facilities, the user shall notify the POTW Manager in writing of the time and
date when it intends to commence operation of the new facilities, and the
identity of the person who will conduct any tests to be performed.
   (B)   The pretreatment facilities shall not be placed in regular operation
until adequate tests have been conducted to establish that the discharges will
comply with the requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and
regulations.
   (C)   Upon prior written request by the POTW Manager, the user shall allow a
representative of the POTW to observe the tests at the time they are conducted.
The cost of the tests shall be paid by the user.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.143 NOTICE OF INTENT.
   (A)   At least 60 days before commencing or changing a discharge, each of
the following persons shall submit a notice of intent to the POTW for approval
by the POTW Manager:
      (1)   A person proposing to discharge any non-domestic wastewater not
previously reported to the POTW;
      (2)   A person taking possession or control of an existing facility that
discharges or may discharge process wastewater into the POTW;
      (3)   A person constructing a new facility that will discharge process
wastewater into the POTW; and
      (4)   A person commencing or modifying a discharge of hazardous wastes
that requires reporting under §
53.141.
   (B)   The notice of intent shall be submitted in writing on a form provided
by the POTW and shall be accompanied by a payment of any fees established by
the village. It shall include sufficient information to allow the POTW Manager
to evaluate the effect of the proposed discharge on the POTW and operations and
to assure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.144 OTHER REPORTS AND NOTICES REQUIRED BY THIS CHAPTER OR BY OTHER
APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   Users shall comply with all other reporting or notice requirements as
provided by this chapter, by any notice, order, or permit issued under this
chapter, or as required by any other applicable law or regulation including,
without limitation, the reporting and notice requirements in connection with
accidental discharge (§§
53.185 through
53.193), upset (§§
53.205 and
53.206), bypass (§§
53.220 through
53.223), and any other reports or notice requirements determined necessary by
the POTW to assess and assure compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.145 REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL REQUIRED REPORTS, NOTIFICATIONS, AND
APPLICATIONS.
   All reports, notifications, and applications submitted by a user to the POTW
as required by this chapter (or by any order, permit, or determination issued
or made pursuant to this chapter) shall meet the following requirements.
   (A)   All reports required by this chapter shall be based upon data obtained
through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period covered
by the report. The data shall be representative of conditions occurring during
the applicable reporting period. If a pretreatment standard requires compliance
with a best management practice or pollution prevention alternative, the user
shall submit documentation as required by the POTW or the applicable standard
to determine compliance with the standard.
    (B)   If a user monitors any pollutant (or measures flow) more frequently
than required by this chapter or a user permit, using the monitoring, sampling,
and analytical procedures as required by §
53.161, the results of all such additional monitoring shall be included in any
report or notification submitted pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The POTW Manager may require that reports, notifications, and other
required documents and data be submitted in a standardized format, as specified
by the POTW Manager.
   (D)   If the POTW, instead of a user, collects all of the information,
including flow data, required for a report required by §§
53.136 and
53.137, the POTW Manager may, in his or her discretion, waive the requirement
that the report be submitted by the user.
   (E)   The reports, notifications, and other documents and data required to
be submitted or maintained by this chapter shall be subject to all of the
provisions as specified by M.A.C. R 323.2310(13).
   (F)   Written reports, notifications, and applications will be deemed to
have been submitted to the POTW, unless otherwise specified by the POTW
Manager, as follows:
      (1)   If mailed, on the date postmarked;
      (2)   The date of receipt of the report shall govern for reports,
notifications, or applications which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a
mail facility serviced by the United States Postal Service including, but not
limited to, reports, notifications, or applications that are hand-delivered,
faxed, or e-mailed; and
      (3)   Written reports, notifications, and applications may be submitted
to the POTW by fax or e-mail (or by any means other than mail or hand-delivery)
only with the prior approval of the POTW on a case-by-case basis. The report or
notification shall be sent to the fax number or e-mail address specified by the
POTW.
   (G)   All written reports, notifications, and applications submitted by mail
or hand-delivery shall be sent or delivered to the address stated in the user
permit, or if there is no user permit, then to the following address:
Village of Eau Claire
Wastewater Treatment Plant
6625 E. Main Street
P.O. Box 338
Eau Claire, MI 49111
   (H)   Failure to provide the reports, notifications, and applications
required by this chapter constitutes an independent violation of this chapter.
However, compliance with applicable reporting and notification requirements
shall not relieve a user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability that
may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such report or notification relieve a
user of any fines, penalties, or other liability that may be imposed by
applicable laws or regulations. Further, the reporting and notification
requirements required by this chapter shall not be construed to authorize a
discharge that exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation under this chapter
or other applicable laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
 
§ 53.146 SIGNATURE AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All written reports, notifications, and applications required by this
chapter shall be signed and certified as follows.
   (A)   Required signatures. The reports, notifications, and applications
shall be signed by an authorized representative of the user as defined in §
53.002.
   (B)   Required certification. The reports, notifications, and applications
shall include the following certification statement.
 
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
 
   (C)   Exception. If the POTW elects to perform, instead of the user, all or
any portion of the sampling or analysis otherwise required for a report or
notification, the user will not be required to comply with the certification
requirements for the sampling and analysis (or portion thereof) performed by
the POTW.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
SAMPLING, ANALYSIS, AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.160 GENERALLY.
   This subchapter provides the sampling, analysis, and monitoring requirements
applicable to users of the POTW. It does not apply to domestic users except as
may be determined appropriate in specific cases by the POTW. All users required
by this chapter (or by any permit, order, decision, or determination issued or
made under this chapter) to sample, monitor, and analyze their discharges to
the POTW shall do so according to the minimum requirements provided by this
subchapter. Additional or more restrictive sampling, analytical, or monitoring
requirements may be required for a particular user by a permit, order,
decision, or determination issued or made under this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.161 SAMPLING AND ANALYTICAL TECHNIQUES AND PROCEDURES.
   All sampling, measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
discharges to the POTW shall be performed in accordance with the procedures
approved by the EPA contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136. If, as determined by the
POTW Manager, the sampling and analytical techniques contained in 40 C.F.R.
part 136 are not available, do not apply to the discharge or pollutants in
question, are not appropriate under the circumstances for application to the
discharge or pollutants in question, or where one or more alternate techniques
are available under 40 C.F.R. part 136, sampling and analysis shall be
performed using validated sampling and analytical methods and procedures
approved or required by the POTW Manager.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.162 SAMPLING FREQUENCY.
   Users shall sample their discharges to the POTW at a frequency necessary to
assess and assure compliance with the requirements of this chapter, any permit
or order issued pursuant to this chapter, all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements, other applicable state and federal laws and regulations, or
as otherwise determined necessary by the POTW Manager consistent with the
purposes and intent of this chapter. At a minimum, all significant industrial
users shall sample their effluent two times per year (once every six months) or
as often as provided by their permits, whichever is more frequent, and report
the results to the POTW. Each discharge point to the POTW shall be sampled and
reported individually. Data collected to assess and assure compliance shall be
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.163 SAMPLE TYPES.
   (A)   For facilities for which historical sampling data does not exist,
representative samples shall include a minimum of four grab samples for pH,
temperature, cyanide, phenols (T), oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile
organics (and any other parameters designated by the POTW Manager), unless a
greater number of grab samples is required in advance by the POTW Manager; for
facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the POTW may
authorize a lower minimum number of grab samples. In all cases, users shall
take the minimum number of grab samples determined necessary by the POTW to
assess and assure compliance by users with applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements. Grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous minimum or instantaneous maximum discharge limits. For all other
pollutants and sampling, 24-hour composite samples must be obtained through
flow-proportional composite sampling techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW. Where time-
proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the control
authority, the samples must be representative of the discharge and the decision
to allow the alternative sampling must be documented in the industrial user
file for that facility or facilities. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the
samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile
organics and oil and grease the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures
as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the POTW, as
appropriate.
   (B)   The POTW Manager may require any user (categorical or non-categorical)
to conduct continuous pH monitoring instead of using grab samples. A user
required to conduct continuous monitoring will be subject to enforcement under
§
53.305(H).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.164 SAMPLING METHODS, EQUIPMENT, AND LOCATION.
   (A)   General. A user shall use the sampling methods, sampling equipment,
and sampling location specified by the user’s user permit, or, in the absence
of a permit, as otherwise required by the POTW Manager.
   (B)   Contaminated groundwater. For discharges to the POTW from remedial
actions related to leaking underground storage tanks or other sources of
contaminated groundwater, the POTW Manager may require the following analyses
or such other analyses as determined appropriate by the Manager:
      (1)   Analysis for benzene, ethylbenzene, toluene, and xylene using the
latest methods approved by the EPA;
      (2)   For total petroleum hydrocarbons, samples shall be analyzed
according to the latest methods approved by the EPA; and
      (3)   The analysis required will be specific to the type of contamination
present at the remedial action site. Parameters requiring analysis may include,
but are not limited to, heavy metals, volatile and/or semi-volatile organics,
pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), chlorinated hydrocarbons,
phenolic compounds, and polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.165 COSTS OF MONITORING, SAMPLING, AND ANALYSES.
   All required monitoring, taking of samples, and sample analyses, whether
performed by the POTW or by a user including, but not limited to, the costs or
fees associated with inspection or surveillance, shall be at the sole cost of
the user.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.166 SELF-MONITORING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, self-monitoring shall be
conducted by each non-domestic user to ensure compliance with all applicable
requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   A user performing its own sampling shall submit the samples for
analysis to a laboratory (which may include the user’s own laboratory) approved
by the POTW.
   (C)   A user performing its own sampling or monitoring shall record and
maintain for all samples and monitoring (including any sampling and monitoring
associated with best management practices): the date, exact location (which
shall match sampling locations identified in the user’s user permit, as
applicable), time (including start time and stop time), and method of sampling
or measurement, and the name(s) of person(s) taking the samples or
measurements; sampler programming information; the sample preservation
techniques or procedures used; the full chain-of-custody for each sample; the
dates the analyses were performed and completed; who performed the analyses;
the analytical techniques and methods used; the detection limits and/or
quantification level used per parameter; quality assurance/quality control (QA/
QC) procedures used and QA/QC data; and the results of the analyses.
   (D)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user shall
notify the POTW Manager within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The
user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the POTW within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation. If the POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
user, the POTW must perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless the POTW
notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to perform the repeat
sampling and analysis. The user shall not be required to resample if: the POTW
performs sampling at the user at a frequency of at least once per month; or the
POTW performs sampling at the user between the time when the user performs its
initial sampling and the time when the user or the POTW receives the results of
the sampling that indicates the violation.
   (E)   If a user uses its own laboratory for sample analysis, the POTW
Manager may require the user to send split samples to an independent laboratory
at a frequency specified by the Manager as a quality control check.
   (F)   Users required to do monthly sampling shall submit sample results to
the POTW Manager by the tenth day of the following month, unless specified
otherwise in the user’s user permit.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.167 SAMPLING AND ANALYSES PERFORMED BY POTW.
   (A)   The sampling and analysis required by this chapter may be performed by
the POTW instead of the user, as determined necessary by the POTW Manager for
purposes of this chapter. The POTW shall provide the user with copies of
analytical results prepared by the POTW. If the results of any sampling and
analysis performed by the POTW instead of the user show that a pretreatment
standard has been violated, the POTW shall provide the user with copies of the
analytical results within ten days after the results are available.
   (B)   If the POTW performs the required sampling and analysis for a user,
the user shall pay a sampling fee to the POTW to fully reimburse the POTW for
the sampling, including administrative and overhead costs. The POTW may
contract with an independent firm to perform the sampling and analysis and the
user shall fully reimburse the POTW for amounts paid by the POTW to the
independent firm.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.168 SPLIT SAMPLES AND SAMPLE RESULTS.
   (A)   If requested by the POTW, the POTW shall be provided with splits of
any sample taken by a user. Splits shall be provided by the user to the POTW at
no cost to the POTW.
   (B)   If requested by a user prior to the collection of a sample of the
user’s discharge, the POTW shall leave a portion of the sample of the discharge
taken from any sampling point on or adjacent to the premises for the user’s
independent analysis.
   (C)   In cases of disputes arising over split samples, the portion taken and
analyzed by the POTW shall be controlling unless proven invalid. The burden of
proving the POTW’s results invalid shall be on the user and at the user’s sole
cost.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.169 MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, AND CALIBRATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A user who performs self-monitoring shall contract with an independent
company (unless the requirement to use an independent company is waived in
advance by the POTW Manager as determined appropriate by the Manager) to
maintain, repair, and calibrate the sampling and flow measurement equipment and
instruments used to monitor the user.
   (B)   The maintenance, repair, and calibration shall be performed as often
as necessary to ensure that monitoring data is accurate and representative, and
consistent with the accepted capability of the type of equipment used, and
shall be at the sole cost of the user.
   (C)   A user shall keep a complete and accurate written record of all
calibrations, inspections, and maintenance done (including, without limitation,
the date and time of the activity, a description of what was done and the
methods used, the names of persons conducting the activity, and any required or
recommended follow-up). The record shall also include a description of all
problems discovered regarding the equipment whether in response to a regularly
scheduled inspection or otherwise.
   (D)   The POTW, in any event, may inspect and test a user’s sampling and
flow measurement equipment and instruments at all times.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.170 REQUIRED SAMPLING STRUCTURES AND DEVICES.
   (A)   The POTW may require any user to install suitable control structures
(such as sampling manholes or sampling vaults) and necessary measuring and
sampling devices (including automatic devices) to facilitate the observation,
sampling, and measurement of the quantity, composition, and concentrations of
discharges to the POTW. The POTW may require the user to install control
structures and measuring and sampling devices at every discharge point and/or
outfall. Further, multiple separate and discrete control structures, and
measuring and sampling devices may be required for a single user, premises,
building, facility, or user, as determined necessary by the POTW Manager. The
structures and devices shall be maintained at all times in a safe, clean, and
proper operating condition at the sole expense of the user. All buildings of
significant industrial users constructed after January 1, 1993, shall include
monitoring facilities approved by the POTW Manager at every outfall that may
discharge non-domestic wastewater.
    (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the control structure to allow
accurate monitoring, measuring, sampling, and preparation of samples for
analysis, as determined necessary by the POTW Manager. At a minimum, all sewers
shall have an inspection and sampling manhole or structure with an opening of
no less than 24 inches in diameter and an internal diameter of no less than 36
inches containing flow measuring, recording, and sampling equipment as required
by the POTW Manager to assure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction for safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the verbal or written request of the POTW. The costs of clearing such access
shall be born by the user.
   (D)   The location and complexity of the required control structure or
devices may vary with sampling requirements determined necessary by the POTW
Manager to protect the POTW and to comply with applicable laws and regulations.
   (E)   The required sampling structures and devices shall be constructed and
installed at the user’s sole expense in accordance with plans submitted to the
POTW, and in compliance with all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Users shall submit to the POTW plans and specifications for
construction or modification of monitoring facilities at least 30 days before
the proposed commencement of construction or modification. If a user constructs
or modifies monitoring facilities before POTW approval or without an inspection
during construction and the POTW determines that the monitoring facilities are
not acceptable, then the user shall, at its cost, reconstruct or modify the
monitoring facilities according to the requirements of the POTW. Construction
shall be completed within 90 days following written notification by the POTW,
or within such other shorter or longer time period specified by the POTW
Manager as required by the particular circumstances to meet the requirements of
this chapter. The structures and devices shall be operated and maintained by
the user at the user’s sole expense so as to be safe and accessible to POTW
personnel at all times and so as to provide accurate and representative
monitoring data. If a user fails to install or maintain a required structure or
device, the POTW may do so and charge the costs to the user.
   (F)   The sampling structures and devices must be provided on the user’s
premises as approved by the POTW, but the POTW may, if it determines that such
a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship to the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (G)   Samples shall be taken at a control structure approved by the POTW.
However, in the absence of a suitable control structure as required by this
section, samples shall be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if pretreatment facilities exist, or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment facilities exist. If other wastewaters are
mixed with a regulated process waste stream prior to pretreatment, the user
must measure the flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the
combined waste stream formula under M.A.C. R 323.2311(7) or other methods
required by the POTW to evaluate compliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements.
   (H)   No user shall change monitoring points or monitoring methods without
first notifying and receiving the approval of the POTW Manager. The POTW
Manager shall not approve any change in a user’s monitoring point or points
that would allow the user to substitute dilution for adequate treatment to
achieve compliance with applicable standards.
   (I)   A user shall allow the POTW access to all sampling and monitoring
facilities as provided by §
53.300(B).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES
§ 53.185 GENERAL.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth minimum requirements for non-domestic users
(and any other users as required by the POTW Manager) to prepare for, respond
to, and report, accidental discharges to the POTW.
   (B)   Additional or more restrictive requirements may be required for
particular users under a user permit, a slug control plan, or by other
applicable laws and regulations.
      (1)   Each non-domestic user shall provide and continuously maintain
protection from accidental discharge of materials or other substances regulated
by this chapter as provided by this subchapter.
       (2)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide the protections required by this subchapter shall be submitted to the
POTW for review. All existing users shall submit the required plans and
information with their permit applications or upon request of the POTW. For new
sources, facilities and operating procedures to provide the protections
required by this subchapter shall be approved by the POTW prior to commencing
discharge. No user who commences discharging to the POTW after the effective
date of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system
until accidental discharge facilities and procedures as provided by this
section are in place and have been approved by the POTW.
      (3)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of regulated materials
or substances shall be provided and maintained at the user’s cost and expense.
Review and approval by the POTW of plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter shall not relieve a user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability that may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, or for any other damage to persons or property, or for any other
liability that may be imposed under this chapter or under other applicable laws
and regulations.
      (4)   No change shall be made in any plan or procedure approved by the
POTW as provided by this section without the prior review and approval of the
POTW.
      (5)   All users shall notify the POTW in writing within five days of any
change in the information required to be provided to the POTW as set forth
below in this section (including, without limitation, information regarding the
person in charge of discharge operations, the description of chemicals stored,
used, or manufactured by the user, the description of user discharges, and the
description of user premises).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.186 DESIGNATION OF PERSON IN CHARGE OF DISCHARGE OPERATIONS.
   Each non-domestic user shall designate at least one person to be in charge
of and responsible for the user’s discharges to the POTW, including
responsibility for maintaining pretreatment facilities and operations, if any,
and prevention of accidental discharges (“person in charge”). The person so
designated shall be an individual or a position with knowledge of all toxic
wastes or hazardous substances routinely or potentially generated by the user,
and of all process alterations that could, in any manner, increase or decrease
normal daily flow or waste strength to the POTW. The names of the person (or
persons) designated as provided by this section and a phone number where the
person can be reached for 24-hour contact shall be submitted by each user to
the POTW.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.187 DESCRIPTION OF CHEMICALS STORED, USED, OR MANUFACTURED BY USER; USER
DISCHARGES; USER PREMISES.
   Unless the following information has already been appropriately provided to
the POTW pursuant to other requirements of this chapter, each non-domestic user
shall:
   (A)   Catalog all chemicals stored, used, or manufactured by the user at the
user’s premises. The list of chemicals shall include specific chemical names
(not just manufacturer’s codes) and shall be provided to the POTW;
   (B)   Provide the POTW with a written description of the user’s discharge
practices, including an estimate of daily average flows, waste strengths, and
flow types, separated according to appropriate categories including process,
cooling, sanitary, and the like; and
   (C)   Provide to the POTW a sketch of the user’s plant building(s),
including the location of pretreatment equipment, process and chemical storage
areas, waste storage areas, floor drains located near process and storage
areas, manhole or other control structures, and sewer locations at the user’s
point of discharge into the POTW.
   (D)   Have or maintain a book of safety data sheets (SDS sheets) from
chemical manufacturers, which must be maintained and updated at all times.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.188 SEGREGATION OF WASTEWATERS REQUIRING PRETREATMENT.
   Non-domestic users shall segregate wastewaters requiring pretreatment
(including, without limitation, spent concentrates, toxics, and high strength
organic wa’stes) as necessary to prevent pollutants from interfering with or
passing through the POTW. All sludges generated by pretreatment shall be used
and disposed of only as permitted by applicable local, state, and federal laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.189 SECONDARY CONTAINMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each non-domestic user must provide and maintain, at the user’s sole
expense, secondary spill containment structures (including diking, curbing, or
other appropriate structures) adequate to protect all floor drains from
accidental spills and discharges to the POTW of any pollutants or discharges
regulated by this chapter.
   (B)   The containment or curbing shall be sufficient to hold not less than
150% of the total process area tank volume and not less than 150% of liquid
polluting material stored or used, unless a lesser containment area or
alternate control measures are approved in advance by the POTW Manager.
   (C)   The containment area shall be constructed so that no liquid polluting
material can escape from the area by gravity through the building sewers,
drains, or otherwise directly or indirectly into the POTW. All floor drains
found within the containment area must be plugged and sealed.
   (D)   Spill troughs and sumps within process areas must discharge to
appropriate pretreatment tanks.
   (E)   Emergency containment shall also be provided for storage tanks that
may be serviced by commercial haulers and for chemical storage areas.
   (F)   Solid pollutants shall be located in security areas designed to
prevent the loss of the materials to the POTW.
   (G)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to provide
the protection required by this section shall be submitted to the POTW Manager
for review, and shall be approved by the Manager before construction.
Construction of approved containment for existing sources shall be completed
within the time period specified by the POTW Manager.
   (H)   No new source shall be permitted to discharge to the POTW until
emergency containment facilities have been approved and constructed as required
by this section.
   (I)   The POTW Manager may order a user to take interim measures for
emergency containment as determined necessary by the Manager under the
circumstances.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.190 SUBMISSION OF POLLUTION INCIDENT PREVENTION PLAN.
   (A)   Each user required to develop a pollution incident prevention (“PIP”)
plan as provided by part 5 of the State Water Resources Commission Rules, 1979
A.C.R. §§ 323.1151 et seq., as amended (promulgated pursuant to Public Act 451
of 1994, part 31, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq., as amended), shall submit
a copy of that plan to the POTW Manager.
   (B)   The PIP plan shall be submitted to the Manager within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter for an existing source, or 30 days prior to the
date of discharge for a new source.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.191 POSTING OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE INFORMATION.
   (A)   All non-domestic users shall post a clearly legible set of
instructions in the area where the user manages wastewater so that the
applicable reporting and notice requirements are made known and are available
to the user’s employees.
   (B)   In addition, all non-domestic users shall instruct their employees on
the applicable reporting and notice requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.192 NOTICE OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In the case of an accidental discharge, a user shall immediately
notify the POTW of the incident by telephone.
   (B)   The notification shall include the name of the person placing the
call, the name of the user, and all available information regarding the
location of the discharge, its volume, duration, constituents, loading and
concentrations, corrective actions taken and required, and other available
information as necessary to determine what impact the discharge may have on the
POTW.
   (C)   A detailed written report providing the same and any additional
available information (including specifying the measures that will be taken by
the user to prevent similar future discharges) shall also be provided by the
user to the POTW Manager within five days of the incident.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.193 SLUG CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Each significant industrial user shall prepare and implement an
individualized slug control plan. Existing significant industrial users shall
submit a slug control plan to the POTW for approval within 90 days of the
effective date of this chapter. New sources that are significant industrial
users shall submit a slug control plan to the POTW for approval before
beginning to discharge. Upon written notice from the POTW, non-domestic users
that are not significant industrial users may also be required to prepare and
implement a slug control plan, and the plan shall be submitted to the POTW for
approval as specified in the notice. All slug control plans shall contain at
least the following elements:
      (1)   A description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   A description of stored chemicals, raw materials, and waste;
      (3)   The procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate any discharge
prohibition, limitation, or requirement under this subchapter, and procedures
for follow-up written notification within five days of the discharge; and
      (4)   The procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental spills,
including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and measures and
equipment for emergency response.
   (B)   If a user has submitted to the POTW plans or documents pursuant to
other requirements of local, state, or federal laws and regulations which meet
all applicable requirements of division (A) above, the POTW may, in its
discretion, determine that the user has satisfied the slug plan submission
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
UPSET AND ADDITIONAL AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES
§ 53.205 UPSET.
   (A)   Generally. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an
action brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if all
of the requirements of division (B) below are met. However, in the event of an
upset, the user may still be liable for surcharges for exceeding applicable
discharge limitations as provided by this chapter. In any enforcement
proceeding, the user seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset shall have
the burden of proof.
   (B)   Conditions necessary to demonstrate upset. A user seeking to establish
the affirmative defense of upset must demonstrate, through properly signed,
contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence, all of the
following:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW within
24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission containing the same information must be provided
within five days of becoming aware of the upset):
         (a)   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   The steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (C)   User responsibility in case of upset. The user shall control
production or all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards and other applicable limits upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.206 ADDITIONAL AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A user shall have an affirmative defense in any action brought against
it alleging a violation of the general prohibitions under §
53.085(B) and specific prohibitions under §
53.085(C)(5), (C)(6), (C)(7) or (C)(8) if the user can demonstrate that all of
the conditions necessary to establish the defense under M.A.C. R 323.2303(3)(a)
and (b) are met.
   (B)   However, even if the affirmative defense is established, the user may
still be liable for surcharges for exceeding applicable discharge limitations
as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
affirmative defenses provided by M.A.C. R 323.2303(3) shall have the burden of
proof.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
BYPASS
§ 53.220 BYPASS NOT VIOLATING APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR
REQUIREMENTS.
   A non-domestic user may allow any bypass to occur that does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if the bypass
is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. A bypass that meets
the requirements of the preceding sentence of this section is not subject to
the provisions in §§
53.221 through
53.223. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize a
discharge that exceeds a discharge prohibition or limitation under this chapter
or other applicable laws or regulations; nor to relieve a user for any expense,
loss, damage, or liability that may be incurred as a result of the bypass, such
as damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property;
nor to relieve the user of any fines, penalties, or other liability that may be
imposed by applicable laws or regulations as a result of the bypass.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.221 BYPASS PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided by §
53.220, the bypass of industrial wastes from any portion of a user’s facility
is prohibited, and shall be subject to enforcement action, unless all of the
following apply:
   (A)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage;
   (B)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste, or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime (This condition is not satisfied if
adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass that occurred during normal
periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance.); and
   (C)   The user submitted the notices as required under §
53.222.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.222 REQUIRED NOTICES.
   (A)   Anticipated bypass. If a user knows in advance of the need for a
bypass, he, she, or it must submit prior notice of the bypass to the POTW. Such
notice shall be submitted to the POTW as soon as the user becomes aware of the
need for the bypass and, if possible, at least ten days before the date of the
bypass.
   (B)   Unanticipated bypass. A user shall submit oral notice of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the POTW
within 24 hours from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes
aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain: a description of the
bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and
times and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Manager may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24
hours.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.223 POTW APPROVED BYPASS.
   (A)   The POTW Manager may approve an anticipated bypass after considering
its adverse effects, if the Manager determines that it meets the conditions set
forth in §
53.221(A), (B), and (C).
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a user to allow an
anticipated bypass to occur without the prior approval of the Manager.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 53.235 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   The following provisions shall apply regarding the treatment by the POTW of
confidential information submitted to or obtained by the POTW in the
administration of this chapter.
   (A)   Information and data regarding a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs, and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests at the time of
submission and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the POTW Manager,
and in accordance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations, that
the release of such information would divulge information, processes, or
methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   Information submitted by a user for which confidentiality is requested
shall be clearly marked on each page as to the portion or portions considered
by the user to be confidential and shall be accompanied by a written
explanation of why the user considers the information to be confidential or why
the release of the information would divulge information, processes, or methods
of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
   (C)   Information that may disclose trade secrets or trade secret processes,
and for which the user has requested, and been granted, confidentiality as
provided by this section, shall not be made available for inspection by the
general public; however, that information shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to matters regulated by this
chapter and shall be made available for use by the state, any state agency, or
the POTW in judicial review or enforcement proceedings that involve the user
that furnished the information. The POTW shall notify the user ten days in
advance if it intends to release confidential information to another
governmental agency as authorized by this section.
   (D)   Information furnished to the POTW on the volume or characteristics of
wastewater or pollutants discharged or proposed to be discharged into the POTW
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction.
   (E)   If a user has mass-based limits as allowed by certain categorical
pretreatment standards on a production basis, the production data necessary to
determine compliance must also be provided by the user to the POTW, and shall
be available to the public. If application of the combined waste stream formula
is necessary to apply categorical pretreatment standards to a user, the flow
measurements and other data used in the calculation must be provided by the
user to the POTW, and shall be available to the public.
   (F)   Observations made by POTW Inspectors shall be subject to the
confidentiality provisions of this section as if they were in writing, if the
user specifies to the POTW in writing for which particular observations made by
the Inspector the user seeks confidentiality.
   (G)   All confidential information and/or data with respect to a particular
user that is on file with the POTW shall be made available upon written request
by that user or its authorized representative during regular business hours.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
RECORDS RETENTION
§ 53.250 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Generally. All users shall retain and preserve records including,
without limitation, all books, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence,
and similar materials, related to matters regulated by this chapter as provided
by the minimum requirements of this section or as provided by a permit or order
issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Discharge records. A non-domestic user shall retain, preserve, and
make available to the POTW for inspection and copying, for the period specified
in division (D) below, all records related to matters regulated by this chapter
including, without limitation: all documents, memoranda, correspondence, and
similar materials; copies of all required reports, notifications, and
applications; all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip
chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation; copies of results
of all sampling, monitoring, measurements, and analyses; all documentation
associated with best management practices; and records of all data used to
complete the application for a permit. Any non-domestic user subject to the
sampling, monitoring, analysis, or reporting requirements of this chapter shall
maintain copies of all records and information pertaining to those requirements
or resulting from any monitoring activities (whether or not such monitoring
activities are required by this chapter). For all samples, the records shall
include, at a minimum, the information required to be recorded by §
53.166.
   (C)   Hazardous or solid waste. A non-domestic user shall retain and
preserve all records regarding its generation, treatment, storage, or disposal
of hazardous waste or solid waste for the period specified in division (D)
below, and shall make them available to the POTW for inspection and copying,
subject to the provisions in this chapter regarding confidential information.
(As used in this section, the terms hazardous waste and solid waste shall have
the same definition as provided in the State Hazardous Waste Management Act,
Public Act 451 of 1994, part 111, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11101 et seq., as
amended, and the rules promulgated under that act.)
   (D)   Retention period. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter (or of any permit or order issued pursuant to this chapter) shall
retain the records specified in divisions (B) and (C) above for a period of at
least three years from: the date the record was created; or the date the record
was first used or relied upon by the user, whichever is later. The three-year
retention period shall be extended during any administrative or judicial
action, enforcement proceeding, or litigation regarding matters regulated by
this chapter (or regarding discharges of the POTW under its NPDES permit),
until all such actions, proceedings, or activities have concluded and all
periods of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired. The
three-year retention period may also be extended at any time at the request of
the POTW, the State Department of Environmental Quality, or the EPA. The POTW
shall retain all records, notices, and other information regarding discharges
to the POTW submitted to it by non-domestic users of the POTW for a period of
not less than three years.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
ADMINISTRATION OF THE POTW
§ 53.265 OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT OF POTW.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly provided by this chapter, the operation,
maintenance, alteration, repair, and management of the POTW shall be under the
direct supervision and control of the POTW Manager.
   (B)   The POTW Manager is charged with the duty of investigating,
preventing, and abating violations and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, and may establish any rules, regulations, and procedures as determined
necessary to assure the efficient management and operation of the POTW.
   (C)   The village may employ additional persons as necessary to carry out
the efficient management and operations of the POTW.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.266 POWERS OF POTW MANAGER.
   The POTW Manager is empowered, either directly or through authorized
representatives, to take the following actions (subject to any required
approvals from the Village Council, as expressly provided by this chapter):
   (A)   Supervise the implementation of this chapter;
   (B)   Review plans submitted by users for pretreatment equipment;
   (C)   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered sampling, metering, or pretreatment
equipment to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (D)   Verify the completeness, accuracy, and representativeness of self-
monitoring data submitted and/or maintained by users;
   (E)   Investigate complaints of violations of this chapter, make inspections
and observations of discharges, and maintain a record of the investigations,
complaints, inspections, and observations;
   (F)   Issue orders and notices of violation and take other actions as
necessary to require compliance with this chapter;
   (G)   Develop and implement a control authority enforcement response (CAER)
plan as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(5). The CAER plan shall provide
procedures for the POTW to investigate and respond to instances of
noncompliance by users. The CAER plan and any associated regulations developed
by the POTW Manager shall become effective upon approval by the Village
Council;
   (H)   With the approval of the Village Council, and in conjunction with the
Village Attorney and any special legal counsel, institute necessary civil or
criminal judicial legal actions and proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction against all users violating this chapter to prosecute violations
of this chapter, to compel the abatement or prevention of violations, to compel
compliance with this chapter and any order, determination, permit, or agreement
issued or entered into under this chapter, and to pursue other necessary or
advisable judicial relief or remedies with respect to violations of this
chapter;
   (I)   Commence a municipal civil infraction action against any user
violating this chapter, and issue municipal civil infraction citations and
municipal civil infraction violation notices for violations of this chapter;
and
   (J)   Perform any other actions authorized by this chapter, or as necessary
or advisable for the supervision, management, and operation of the POTW and the
enforcement of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations (subject
to the rights, powers, and duties in respect thereto that are reserved by law
to the Village Council).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
USER POLLUTION CONTROLS
§ 53.280 PROVISION BY USERS OF NECESSARY PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply
with all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements within the time
limitations specified by applicable law or regulation, and as required to
comply with the requirements of a user permit or order issued pursuant to this
chapter. All facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user’s sole expense. Detailed, professionally
signed and sealed plans showing the pretreatment facilities, specifications,
and operating procedures shall be submitted to the POTW for review and approval
prior to construction. The POTW may approve, approve with conditions, or
disapprove the plans, specifications, and operating procedures. A user shall
not begin discharging from the treatment facilities until facilities have been
approved and all conditions and requirements of the approval have been met as
determined by the POTW. The review and approval by the POTW of such plans and
operating procedures does not in any way relieve the user from the
responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent
acceptable to the POTW under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and be approved by the POTW prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
(Users shall notify the POTW regarding the installation of new pretreatment
facilities or modification of existing facilities as provided by § 53.142.)
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.281 PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   A user shall at all times properly operate and maintain at the user’s sole
expense all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related
appurtenances) that are installed or used by the user to comply with the
requirements of this chapter. Proper operation and maintenance includes,
without limitation, effective performance, adequate funding, adequate operator
staffing, and adequate quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) procedures for
sampling and analysis.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
  § 53.282 REMOVED SUBSTANCES.
   Solids, sludges, filter backwash, or other pollutants removed in the course
of treatment or control of wastewaters shall be disposed of in accordance with
§ 405 of the Clean Water Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 1345, and Subtitles C and D of
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq. and
42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq., and other applicable local, state, and federal laws
and regulations.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.283 DUTY TO HALT OR REDUCE ACTIVITY.
   Upon reduction of efficiency of operation, or loss, or failure of all or
part of a user’s pretreatment equipment or facility, the user shall, to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
and other applicable standards, requirements, and limits, control its
production and all discharges until operation of the equipment or facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in situations including, without limitation, where the primary source
of power for the pretreatment equipment or facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
It shall not be a defense for a user in an enforcement action that it would
have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to
maintain compliance with the conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.284 DUTY TO MITIGATE.
   A user shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or correct any adverse
impact to the POTW or the environment resulting from noncompliance with this
chapter, including such accelerated or additional monitoring as necessary to
determine the nature and impact of the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.285 DUTY TO PRETREAT PRIOR TO DISCHARGE TO POTW.
   Except as otherwise expressly required by this chapter, by a user permit or
order issued pursuant to this chapter, or other applicable law or regulation,
the prohibitions and limitations provided by this chapter or a user permit
shall apply at the point where wastewater and pollutants are discharged or
caused to be discharged into the POTW and any required pretreatment shall, at a
minimum, be completed before that point of discharge is reached.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.286 IMPLEMENTATION OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BEST MANAGEMENT
PRACTICES PLAN.
   (A)   The POTW Manager may require any user to develop and implement best
management practices to control, contain, treat, prevent, or reduce the
discharge of wastewater, pollutants, or other substances from the user’s
premises to the POTW, as determined necessary by the manager.
   (B)   In addition, the POTW Manager may require a user to develop and submit
a best management practices plan (“BMPP”), including an enforceable
implementation schedule, for review and approval by the Manager. The BMPP shall
be submitted within 30 days after notification by the Manager or as otherwise
required by a user permit. The BMPP shall be directed at preventing the
entrance of pollutants, directly or indirectly, into the POTW. The BMPP shall
be available for inspection at all times at the user’s premises. At a minimum,
a user’s BMPP shall contain all of the following elements, as determined
necessary by the POTW Manager, at a level of detail and in units and terms as
determined necessary by the Manager to adequately evaluate the plan:
      (1)   A statement of the purpose and objectives of the plan;
      (2)   A description of the strategies, methods, policies, and procedures
to prevent, minimize, or reduce the introduction of pollutants into the user’s
discharge and to minimize waste generation;
      (3)   A description of the options available to the user to control
accidental spillage, leaks, and drainage;
      (4)   A description of best available or practicable control technologies
available for the user’s specific circumstances;
      (5)   A detailed facility layout and site diagram showing points of entry
into the POTW;
      (6)   A description of the waste handling, treatment, and discharge
disposal facilities, including flow diagrams and process schematics;
      (7)   A description of operating and maintenance processes and
procedures;
      (8)   Inventory of raw materials and a list of waste sources, including a
list of all chemicals used or stored at the facility;
      (9)   A description of employee training programs, policies, and
procedures; continuing education programs; and participation;
      (10)   A description of documentation, including record keeping and
forms;
      (11)   A description of monitoring activities;
      (12)   Information log of facility personnel, organization chart,
emergency phone numbers, contact persons, and maintenance or service
representatives;
      (13)   Certification by a qualified professional that the plan is
adequate to prevent spills, leaks, slug loads, or non-customary discharges of
regulated substances, directly or indirectly, to the POTW; and
      (14)   Such other information, documents, or diagrams as required by the
POTW Manager including, but not limited to, any of the information required
under §
53.108.
   (C)   The BMPs or BMPP required of a user or approved for a user shall be
incorporated in a user permit issued to the user. If the user already has a
user permit, the existing permit may be modified to incorporate the BMP
requirements. If the user does not currently have a user permit, a permit shall
be issued for that purpose.
   (D)   The POTW Manager may require revisions to user’s BMPP if the Manager
determines that the plan contains elements that are inadequate, or as otherwise
determined necessary by the Manager to ensure compliance with applicable
requirements of this chapter. Review of a BMPP by the Manager shall not relieve
the user from the responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to comply
with local, state, and federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.287 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS/TRAPS.
   (A)   Interceptors/traps required.
      (1)   Grease interceptors/traps shall be provided and maintained in
proper operating condition at all times at the expense of the property owner
for the proper handling of liquid waste containing grease. Grease interceptors/
traps shall be required for all food service establishments and may be required
for other users as determined necessary by the POTW Manager. Grease
interceptors/traps shall be sized, constructed, and installed as required by
the POTW Manager’s specifications and subject to the POTW Manager’s approval.
At a minimum, grease interceptors/traps shall be cleaned and maintained per the
manufacturer’s specifications and as provided by this section at the property
owner’s expense.
      (2)   Oil and sand interceptors/traps may be required in any
establishment where sand, oil, and flammable wastes or other harmful
ingredients could enter the wastewater. If a plug or backup occurs and is
directly caused by sand and/or oil, the POTW Manager may require that
establishment to install an oil and sand interceptor/trap. Oil and sand
interceptors/traps are required for establishments engaged in the washing of
motor vehicles.
      (3)   All interceptors/traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the POTW Manager and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme
changes in temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight,
and equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted into place, shall
be gastight and watertight. Grease interceptors shall provide a minimum
capacity of 750 gallons.
      (4)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors/traps shall
be cleaned and maintained by the owner, at the owner’s sole expense, and shall
be kept in continuously efficient operation at all times. At a minimum, any
user required to install an interceptor shall comply with the best management
practices as provided by division (B) below.
   (B)   Best management practices (“BMPs”) for interceptors/traps.
      (1)   Any user required to install and maintain an interceptor/trap of
any kind shall develop and carry out a system of maintenance and clean out of
such device(s) and shall document and keep:
         (a)   A maintenance schedule;
         (b)   The identity of the person(s) who cleaned and maintained the
interceptor; and
         (c)   The method and location of grease, oil, and sand disposal.
      (2)   Any problems with or damage to an interceptor/trap shall be
reported immediately to the owner and the POTW Manager.
      (3)   Any damage to an interceptor/trap shall be immediately repaired.
      (4)   No interceptor/trap clean out material shall be discharged into a
sewer.
      (5)   No bacteria or enzyme products shall be used in the maintenance of
interceptors/traps.
      (6)   All users shall implement BMPs for grease management to minimize
the discharge of food grease to the POTW.
      (7)   Specific BMPs for grease interceptors/traps. All users required to
install and maintain grease interceptors (traps) shall comply with the
following minimum requirements.
         (a)   Under sink grease traps shall be cleaned weekly, at a minimum,
or more frequently as needed or as required by the POTW Manager.
         (b)   Clean outs of all other interceptors/traps shall be scheduled
such that the interceptor/trap does not exceed 25% solids content (including
both the top and bottom layers of solids) and there is no visible discharge of
grease or oil. At a minimum, an interceptor/trap shall be cleaned out at least
once every three months.
         (c)   The clean out shall be accomplished by pumping to remove the
entire grease mat, liquids, sludges, and solids from screens, baffles, air-
relief chambers, and wash down of interior walls. The interceptor/trap shall be
refilled with clear water before being returned to service.
         (d)   The user shall witness all clean out and maintenance of
interceptors/traps.
   (C)   Documentation. The documentation required by this section shall be
available for review by the POTW and copies shall be provided to the POTW upon
request.
   (D)   Inspection. The POTW shall have the right to inspect a restaurant or
other establishment where an interceptor/trap is required at any time for any
reason.
   (E)   Failure to comply. If a user fails to provide or maintain a required
interceptor/trap, the village may do so (or cause the same to be done) and
charge the costs to the user. The failure of any establishment where an
interceptor/trap is required to comply with this section may subject the
violator to enforcement action and the remedies as may be available by law and
the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.288 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   The POTW may require users to take additional pretreatment measures, as
determined necessary by the POTW including, but not limited to, the following.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW may require users to restrict
their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain wastewater be
discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate points of
discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste streams, and
such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The POTW may require any person discharging into the POTW to install
and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable storage and
flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow.
   (C)   Users with the reasonable potential to discharge explosive or
flammable substances may be required to install and maintain an approved
explosion hazard meter, combustible gas detection meter, or similar device, as
determined appropriate by the POTW.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.300 POTW INSPECTION, SURVEILLANCE, AND MONITORING AUTHORITY; RIGHT OF
ENTRY.
   (A)   In general. The POTW is authorized to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, sampling, and monitoring activities and procedures as necessary
to determine, independent of information supplied by users or any other
persons, compliance or noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements with this chapter and with other applicable laws and regulations.
This authority includes, without limitation, the authority:
      (1)   To verify the completeness, accuracy, and representativeness of
self-monitoring data submitted by users;
      (2)   To determine compliance with the terms, conditions, and
requirements of this chapter or of any permit, order, notice, or agreement
issued or entered into under this chapter;
      (3)   To support enforcement actions taken by the POTW against
noncompliant users;
      (4)   To determine if users have corrected problems identified in
previous inspections;
      (5)   To identify which (and to what degree) users influence the quality
of the POTW’s influent, effluent, and sludge quality;
      (6)   To evaluate the impacts of the POTW’s influent on its treatment
processes and receiving stream;
      (7)   To evaluate the need for revised local limits;
      (8)   To maintain current data on each user;
      (9)   To assess the adequacy of each user’s self-monitoring program and
user permit;
      (10)   To provide a basis for establishing sampling and monitoring
requirements for users;
      (11)   To evaluate the adequacy of each user’s operation and maintenance
activities on its pretreatment system;
      (12)   To assess the potential for spills and/or slug discharge control
measures, and evaluate the effectiveness of spill and slug discharge control
measures;
      (13)   To gather information for user permit development;
      (14)   To evaluate compliance with existing enforcement actions;
      (15)   To require any user to submit one or more representative samples
of the wastewater discharged or that the user proposes to discharge into the
POTW; and
      (16)   To determine compliance with requirements regarding implementation
of best management practices; accidental discharge controls and protections;
spill prevention or containment measures; and pollution prevention,
minimization, or reduction measures.
   (B)   Right of entry.
      (1)   The POTW Manager and other authorized representatives of the
village bearing proper credentials and identification are authorized to enter a
non-domestic user’s premises (and any other user’s premises, as determined
necessary by the POTW Manager) to conduct inspection, surveillance, and
monitoring activities as necessary to determine compliance with this chapter,
and in that regard shall have, without limitation, the following minimum
authority:
         (a)   To enter into any premises of any user in which a discharge
source, treatment system, or activity is located or in which records are
required to be kept as provided by this chapter, for the purpose of inspecting,
observing, measuring, sampling, and testing the wastewater discharge, removing
samples of wastewater for analysis, and inspecting and making copies of
required records. This shall include the right to take photographs;
         (b)   To set up and maintain on the user’s property such devices as
are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring, and/or
metering operations, or to require the user to do so, at the user’s sole
expense;
          (c)   To randomly sample and analyze the effluent from users and
conduct surveillance activities to identify occasional and continuing
noncompliance with applicable standards and requirements. The POTW shall
inspect and sample the effluent from each significant industrial user at least
once a year;
         (d)   To inspect any production, manufacturing, fabrication, or
storage area where pollutants, subject to regulation under this chapter, could
originate, be stored, or be discharged to the POTW; and
         (e)   To enter all private properties through which the POTW, the
village, or other governmental agency holds an easement for the purposes of,
but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the POTW or wastewater transmission facilities
lying within the easement.
      (2)   POTW representatives entering a user’s premises for purposes
authorized by this chapter shall comply with the user’s plant safety
requirements regarding such matters as entry into confined spaces, use of
safety glasses, and hearing protection requirements, as requested by the user.
Entry shall be commenced and completed as expeditiously as practicable,
consistent with the purposes for which the entry was made.
   (C)   Access without delay required. Users shall allow the POTW ready access
at all times to all parts of the user’s facility or premises where wastewater
governed by this chapter is created, handled, conveyed, treated, or discharged,
or where any production, manufacturing, fabrication, or storage area where
pollutants regulated under this chapter could originate, be stored, or be
discharged to the POTW, or where wastewater records are kept, for the purposes
of inspection, sampling, records examination, or in the performance of any of
the POTW’s duties. If a user has security measures in force that would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into the premises by the POTW,
the user shall make necessary arrangements in advance with its security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, authorized
representatives of the POTW (or authorized state or federal personnel) will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities. Upon arrival at a user’s premises, POTW
representatives shall inform the user or its employees that inspections,
sampling, compliance monitoring, metering, or other POTW procedures are to be
performed and that the user has the right to accompany the POTW employee/
representative during the performance of his or her duties.
   (D)   Refusal to allow entry. If a user refuses to permit access (or
unreasonably delays access) to an authorized POTW representative or to permit
the representative to obtain, take, and remove samples or make copies of
documents or undertake other authorized inspection, surveillance, and
monitoring activities as provided by this chapter, the POTW Manager may order
the termination of the discharge of wastewater to the POTW; order the user to
permit access within a time certain; issue the user a notice of violation of
this section; or take other appropriate action as provided by this chapter and
other applicable laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, seeking
the issuance of a search warrant). Further, the refusal to permit access (or
causing an unreasonable delay in access) as provided by this section shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.301 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating a provision of this chapter may be
served with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction of the violation. The
person shall, within the period of time stated in notice, permanently cease all
violations. The notice of violation (NOV) shall be served and shall contain the
information as provided by §
53.303.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified by the NOV, the following provisions shall
apply: within 30 days of the date of the NOV, the user shall submit to the POTW
a written explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions.
Submission of the required plan shall not in any way relieve the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the village or
the POTW to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation, or otherwise
require the village or the POTW to first issue a notice of violation before
initiating a civil or criminal action against a person for violating this
chapter.
   (D)   Failure to comply with any requirement of a notice of violation shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.302 ORDERS AND SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT TOOLS.
   (A)   Generally. The POTW Manager may issue an order to any user as
determined by the Manager to be appropriate under the circumstances, as
provided by this section. Multiple orders may be issued simultaneously or in
combination as a single order with respect to a single user.
   (B)   Service. An order shall be served upon a user and shall contain the
information as provided by §
53.303. However, orders to immediately cease and desist discharge, or to
terminate sewer services, or other emergency orders where delay might endanger
human health, the environment, or the POTW, may be oral and may be served by
telephone (to be followed within five days by written confirmation of the order
by the POTW Manager).
    (C)   Types of orders. The POTW Manager may issue the following types of
orders.
      (1)   Order to immediately cease and desist discharge. The POTW Manager
may issue an order to cease and desist from discharging any wastewater,
pollutant, or discharge not in compliance with this chapter. The order shall
have immediate effect if the actual or threatened discharge to the POTW
presents, or may present, imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons, to the environment, or causes, or may cause, interference
or pass-through. The POTW Manager shall implement whatever action is necessary
to halt or prevent the discharge including, but not limited to, emergency
suspension of service. The user shall be assessed for any penalties, fines,
charges, surcharges, expenses, or losses incurred due to the actual or
threatened discharge of pollutants as provided by this chapter.
      (2)   Order to cease discharge within a time certain. The POTW Manager
may issue an order to cease and desist from discharging any wastewater,
pollutant, or discharge not in compliance with this chapter by a certain time
and date. The proposed time for remedial action shall be specified in the
order. In addition to any other circumstances as determined appropriate by the
POTW Manager, an order may be issued under this section for the failure to pay
applicable permit fees or to comply with any term of a user permit.
      (3)   Order to effect pretreatment. The POTW Manager may issue an order
to a user requiring the user to pretreat its discharge in accordance with this
chapter. Any user subject to an order to pretreat shall prepare a plan to
pretreat its discharge so that the discharge complies with the requirements of
the order and this chapter. The plan shall be submitted to the POTW Manager
within a reasonable period as specified in the order. The plan shall be
prepared in accordance with good engineering practice and shall state whether
construction is necessary, as well as identify measures that can be completed
without construction. The plan shall contain a schedule of compliance for
completion of each of the various phases necessary to implement full
pretreatment. The schedule of compliance must be approved by the POTW Manager.
The schedule of compliance shall consist of one or more remedial measures,
including enforceable timetables for a sequence of actions or operations
leading to compliance with an effluent standard, or other prohibition or
standard. The following steps or phases shall be included in the schedule of
compliance as determined necessary by the POTW Manager:
         (a)   Retain a qualified engineer and/or consultant;
         (b)   Obtain any engineering or scientific investigation or surveys
deemed necessary;
         (c)   Prepare and submit a preliminary plan to achieve pretreatment;
         (d)   Prepare plans and specifications, working drawings, or other
engineering or architectural documents that may be necessary to effect
pretreatment;
         (e)   Establish a time to let any contract necessary for any
construction;
         (f)   Establish completion times for any construction necessary;
         (g)   Establish a time limit to complete full pretreatment pursuant to
the final order; and
         (h)   If a phase or unit of construction or implementation may be
effected independently of another phase or unit, establish separate timetables
for the phases or unit.
      (4)   Order to affirmatively respond. The POTW Manager may issue an order
requiring a user to perform any action required under this chapter including,
without limitation requiring a user to: submit samples; to install sampling,
metering, and monitoring equipment; to submit reports; to permit access for
inspection, sampling, testing, monitoring, and investigations; to reduce or
eliminate a discharge or pollutants in a discharge; or to pay permit fees or
other applicable charges.
      (5)   Order to terminate sewer services.
         (a)   The POTW Manager may issue an order to terminate the sewer
services of a user including, but not limited to, immediate physical blockage
of the user’s sewer connection, for reasons including, without limitation, the
following:
            1.   A discharge that violates any general or specific discharge
prohibition, including any pretreatment standard or requirement, and that
reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to human health, the
environment, or the POTW;
            2.   Failure of a user to notify the POTW of any discharge as
described in this division (C)(5)(a) of which the user was aware or reasonably
should have been aware;
            3.   Failure of a user to sample, monitor, pretreat, or report, or
failure to install monitoring or pretreatment facilities, as required by an
order of the POTW Manager;
            4.   A knowing, willful violation of any term, condition, or
requirement of an order or user permit, or any provision of this chapter; and
            5.   A negligent violation of any major term, condition, or
requirement of an order or user permit. For purposes of this section, a MAJOR
TERM, CONDITION, OR REQUIREMENT is one the violation of which is reasonably
likely to endanger human health, the environment, the POTW, or cause the POTW
to violate its NPDES permit.
         (b)   If the POTW determines that physical blockage is necessary, the
POTW shall make a reasonable attempt to deliver to the person who appears to be
in control of the user’s facility a written notice describing the reason for
the physical blockage order. After delivery of the notice (or after a
reasonable attempt to deliver the notice, even if delivery was unsuccessful),
the POTW may immediately install the physical blockage. No person shall remove
or tamper with a physical blockage installed by the POTW without prior written
permission from the village.
      (6)   Order to show cause. The POTW Manager may issue an order requiring
a user to appear and explain any noncompliance with the requirements of this
chapter or any permit, order, decision, or determination promulgated, issued,
or made under this chapter, and to show cause why more severe enforcement
actions against the user should not go forward. A show cause hearing shall be
held within ten days after the order to show cause is issued, as follows.
         (a)   The hearing shall be conducted and evidence shall be taken by
the POTW Board of Appeals. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to require
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in the hearing.
         (b)   Any testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath and
recorded. A copy of the transcript of the hearing shall be made available at
cost to any person upon payment of applicable charges for the transcript.
         (c)   After reviewing the evidence taken at the hearing, the POTW
Board of Appeals shall decide whether further enforcement action is required
and, if so, the nature and extent of that further action including, without
limitation, the issuance of any order or imposition of any fines, fees,
surcharges, or penalties as authorized by this chapter.
   (D)   Immediate response to order by user may be required. Any user issued
an order as provided by this section to immediately suspend its discharge to
the POTW shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge using whatever means
are necessary to do so, or take any other action as required by the order. If
the user fails to comply voluntarily with the order to immediately suspend its
discharge, the POTW shall take any action determined necessary as authorized by
this chapter including, without limitation, immediate suspension of water
service and/or severance of the sewer connection or commencement of judicial
proceedings, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW or endangerment to
public health, safety, or the environment. The POTW may reinstate the
wastewater treatment service and terminate any judicial proceedings, as
applicable, upon satisfactory proof or other demonstration by the user that the
noncomplying discharge has been eliminated or will not reoccur. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
noncomplying discharge and the measures taken to prevent any further occurrence
shall be submitted to the POTW Manager within 15 days of the occurrence.
   (E)   Noncompliance due to factors beyond user’s control. If noncompliance
with an order is unintentional and temporary and due to factors beyond the
reasonable control of a user, and the user can demonstrate the conditions
necessary for demonstration of an upset as provided by §
53.205(B), the POTW Manager may modify the order or take other actions as
determined appropriate. However, a user shall not be relieved of liability for
noncompliance with an order to the extent caused by operational error,
improperly designed or inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   (F)   Amendment, suspension, and revocation of orders. An order shall be
subject to amendment, suspension, or revocation as determined appropriate by
the POTW Manager. Notice of the amendment, suspension, or revocation shall be
served upon the user in the same manner as notice was provided for the original
order. An amendment, suspension, or revocation of an order shall be subject to
the same procedures for review and appeal as the original issuance of the
order, as provided by this chapter.
   (G)   Consent orders and agreements. The POTW Manager may enter into a
consent order or agreement with a user to resolve disputed claims and address
identified and potential deficiencies in the user’s compliance status. The
order or agreement shall be in the form of a written agreement with the user
and may contain appropriate provisions including, without limitation,
compliance schedules and stipulated fines and remedial actions.
   (H)   POTW authority to require financial assurances. The POTW may require
any user to post a performance bond (or other form of surety acceptable to the
POTW Manager) sufficient to cover expenses (direct and/or indirect) that might
reasonably be incurred by the POTW as a result of the user’s discharges to the
POTW (including, but not limited to, the costs to restore or repair any damage
to the POTW) or sufficient to achieve consistent compliance with applicable
laws and regulations, as determined necessary by the POTW Manager. Further, any
user that has in the prior two years been responsible for causing interference
or pass-through at the POTW may be required to obtain liability insurance
sufficient to cover the reasonable costs of responding or restoring the POTW in
the event of a second such incident. These financial assurance requirements may
also be made conditions of a user permit.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.303 SERVICE OF NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS, ORDERS, AND NOTICES OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise expressly provided by this chapter, all
orders, notices of violations, and notices of assessments shall be served upon
persons and shall contain the information as provided by this section.
   (B)   Service. Service shall be by personal delivery or certified mail
(return receipt requested), addressed to the user, alleged violator, or other
person, as applicable, at the person’s last known address as shown by POTW’s
records. The person served shall sign and date the order or notice and shall
return the signed original copy to the POTW; provided, that the failure to do
so shall not affect the person’s obligation to comply with the order or notice.
Further, a notice or order served by mail may not actually be received by the
user, but this shall not nullify any enforcement action subsequently taken by
the POTW against the user under authority of this chapter.
   (C)   Contents. All orders and notices shall contain at least the following
information, to the extent known by the POTW and as determined by the POTW to
be applicable to the situation:
      (1)   The name and address of the violator;
      (2)   The location and time that the violation occurred or was observed,
and the duration of the violation;
      (3)   The nature of the violation, including the provisions of this
chapter or of any permit, order, decision, determination, or agreement
violated;
      (4)   The basis for determining that a violation has occurred (personal
observation, pollutant analysis, and the like);
      (5)   The amount of the fine, penalty, or charge assessed or due, if any;
      (6)   The manner in which, and time and date by which, any fine, penalty,
or charge must be paid, including any penalty or charge for late payment;
      (7)   The remedial action ordered, the time within which required actions
must be taken, and any consequences for failure to do so;
      (8)   The right to appeal the issuance of the order or notice and a
summary of the procedures for appeal, or other applicable administrative
procedures; and
      (9)   The date and time the order or notice was issued.
   (D)   Request for additional information. A person served may request
additional information from the POTW Manager regarding the contents or
requirements of any order or notice. However, a request for additional
information shall not extend the time for compliance with an order or notice.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.304 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The POTW shall publish once per year in the largest newspaper
circulated in the village, a list of categorical users that, at any time during
the previous 12 months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a user shall be considered to be in
significant noncompliance if its violations meet one or more of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violation of discharge limits, defined as results of
analyses in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude); a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l);
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as results of
analyses in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of
the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits
as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(l), times the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for
BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants, except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (instantaneous
minimum, instantaneous maximum, daily maximum, or longer-term average, or
narrative standard) that the POTW determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including
endangering the health of Department personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent the discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a permit or enforcement order, for
starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide any required reports within 30 days after the
due date;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, that the POTW Manager determines will
adversely affect the POTW or the operation or implementation of the POTW’s
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.305 NUMBER OF VIOLATIONS.
   The number of violations resulting from a user’s noncompliance with
applicable discharge prohibitions or effluent limitations shall be determined
as follows.
   (A)   Applicable concentration limitations and mass (or loading) limitations
shall be treated as separate limitations, and a user may be liable and
penalized separately for exceeding any of those limitations for a single
pollutant or sampling parameter.
   (B)   Each violation of a daily maximum limit for a single pollutant or
sampling parameter shall constitute a separate violation for each day on which
the violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Each violation of an instantaneous minimum or instantaneous maximum
limit for a single pollutant or sampling parameter shall constitute a separate
violation for each such occurrence, and there may be multiple violations for
each day on which such a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Each violation of a monthly average limit (or of some other average
limit period) for a single pollutant or sampling parameter shall constitute a
separate violation for each day of the month (or other stated period) during
which the violation occurred, regardless of the number of days on which samples
were actually taken. (For example, in a month with 31 days, a violation of the
monthly average limit for that month constitutes 31 violations for each
pollutant parameter for which the monthly average limit was exceeded during the
month.)
   (E)   Except with regard to violations of average limits as provided by
division (D) above, a violation will be deemed to have continued to occur each
day beginning with the first day the violation occurred to the day the user is
able to demonstrate through appropriate sampling results that the violation is
no longer occurring.
   (F)   If, for any period, a user has violated both a daily maximum limit and
an average limit for a particular pollutant parameter, then the total number of
violations is the sum of the days on which the daily maximum limit was violated
plus the number of days in the averaging period.
   (G)   If a user permit regulates more than one outfall, each outfall shall
be considered separately in computing the number of violations as provided by
this section.
   (H)   If a user is discharging a waste stream that is required to be
monitored and analyzed under continuous monitoring procedures (such as for pH
or any other parameter that is required to be monitored and analyzed under
continuous monitoring), then all of the following shall apply.
      (1)   If at any time during a daily 24-hour period the continuous
monitoring shows that the monitored parameter exceeded the instantaneous
minimum, instantaneous maximum, or daily maximum limit for that parameter, then
a violation has occurred.
      (2)   If during a daily 24-hour period under continuous monitoring the
monitored parameter exceeds the instantaneous minimum, instantaneous maximum,
or daily maximum limit more than once after returning to compliance during that
period, then each such exceedance shall be considered a separate violation.
      (3)   If during a daily 24-hour period under continuous monitoring the
monitored parameter exceeds the instantaneous minimum, instantaneous maximum,
or daily limit into the next daily 24-hour period (i.e., the exceedance occurs
both before and after midnight), then the exceedance will be considered a
separate violation on both days.
      (4)   If during a daily 24-hour period under continuous monitoring the
monitored parameter exceeds instantaneous minimum, instantaneous maximum, or
the daily limit for more than 66% of the 24 hours, as determined in minutes of
the day, and, in the opinion of the Superintendent, has impacted WWTP processes
or the collection system, then the user will be considered to be in significant
noncompliance.
   (I)   One violation occurs on: each day that a report is late; and each day
after an action required to be completed is not completed.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.306 NUISANCE.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter, or of any permit, order, notice, or
agreement issued or entered into under this chapter, is deemed to be a public
nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the village.
   (B)   In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available under
the law, any person creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of state law, this chapter, or other ordinances of the village
governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the village for any costs
incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance, as applicable.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.307 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who discharges to the POTW (including, but not
limited to, any person who causes or creates a discharge that violates any
provision of this chapter, produces a deposit or obstruction, or otherwise
damages, injures, or impairs the POTW, or causes or contributes to a violation
of any federal, state, or local law governing the POTW, whether any such act is
intentional or unintentional) shall be liable to and shall fully reimburse the
village for all expenses, costs, losses, or damages (direct or indirect)
payable or incurred by the POTW or the village as a result of any such
discharge, deposit, obstruction, damage, injury, impairment, violation,
exceedance, noncompliance, or act. The costs that must be reimbursed to the
village shall include, but shall not be limited to, all of the following:
         (a)   All costs incurred by the POTW and/or the village in responding
to the violation or discharge including expenses for any cleaning, repair, or
replacement work, and the costs of sampling, monitoring, and treatment, as a
result of the discharge, violation, or noncompliance;
         (b)   All costs to the POTW and/or the village of monitoring,
surveillance, and enforcement in connection with investigating, verifying, and
prosecuting any discharge, violation, or noncompliance;
         (c)   The full amount of any fines, assessments, penalties, and claims
including natural resource damages, levied against the POTW and/or the village,
or any POTW or village representative, by any governmental agency or third
party as a result of a violation of the POTW’s NPDES permit (or other
applicable law or regulation) that is caused by or contributed to by any
discharge, violation, or noncompliance; and
         (d)   The full value of any POTW and/or the village staff time
(including any administrative and overhead costs and any required overtime),
consultant and engineering fees, and actual attorney fees and defense costs
(including the POTW’s and/or the village’s legal counsel and any special legal
counsel), associated with responding to, investigating, verifying, and
prosecuting any discharge, violation, or noncompliance or otherwise incurred by
the POTW and/or the village in administering and enforcing the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   Further, the village is authorized to correct any violation of this
chapter or damage or impairment to the POTW caused by a discharge and to bill
the person causing the violation or discharge for the amounts to be reimbursed.
The costs reimbursable under this section shall be in addition to fees,
amounts, or other costs and expenses required to be paid by users under other
sections of this chapter.
   (B)   In determining the amounts to be reimbursed, the POTW may consider
factors such as, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The volume of the discharge;
      (2)   The length of time the discharge occurred;
      (3)   The composition of the discharge;
      (4)   The nature, extent, and degree of success the POTW may achieve in
minimizing or mitigating the effect of the discharge;
      (5)   The toxicity, degradability, treatability, and dispersal
characteristics of the discharges;
      (6)   The direct and indirect costs incurred by the POTW and/or the
village, or imposed upon the POTW and/or the village to treat the discharges,
including sludge handling and disposal costs;
      (7)   Fines, assessments, levies, charges, expenses, and penalties
imposed upon and/or incurred by the POTW and/or the village, including the
POTW’s and village’s costs of defense of actions, or suits brought or
threatened against the POTW and/or the village by governmental agencies or
third parties; and
      (8)   Such other factors, including the amount of any attorney’s fees,
consultant and expert fees, expenses, costs, sampling and analytical fees,
repairs, and the like as the POTW and/or the village deems appropriate under
the circumstances.
   (C)   Costs to be reimbursed to the POTW and/or the village as provided by
this section may be assessed to the user as provided by §
53.303, or as otherwise determined appropriate by the POTW Manager in
conjunction with an enforcement action.
   (D)   The failure by any person to pay any amounts required to be reimbursed
to the POTW and/or the village as provided by this section shall constitute an
additional violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.308 REVIEW OR APPROVAL BY VILLAGE.
   In no case shall the review and/or approval by the village of a user’s
plans, specifications, or operating procedures entitle a user to relief from
enforcement actions for failure to achieve compliance with the applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.309 SEVERANCE OR SUSPENSION OF SEWER AND/OR WATER SERVICE.
   If a user violates or continues to violate any provision of this chapter
(including, without limitation, any notice, order, permit, decision, or
determination promulgated, issued, or made by the POTW under this chapter), or
if the village determines that the user’s actual or proposed discharge may
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or the environment, the village may sever or suspend sewer and/or water
service provided to the user by the village. If severed or suspended, the sewer
and/or water service shall recommence only after the user has satisfactorily
demonstrated to the village the user’s ability to comply with all applicable
provisions of this chapter, and only at the user’s sole expense.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.310 JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   With the approval of the Village Council, in conjunction with the village’s
legal counsel, the POTW Manager may institute legal proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction to seek all appropriate relief for violations of this
chapter or of any permit, order, notice, or agreement issued or entered into
under this chapter. The action may seek temporary or permanent injunctive
relief, damages, penalties, costs, and any other relief, at law or equity, that
a court may order. The POTW Manager may also seek collection of surcharges,
fines, penalties, and any other amounts due to the POTW and/or the village that
a user has not paid.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.311 CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   The imposition of a single penalty, fine, order, damage, or surcharge upon
any person for a violation of this chapter, or of any permit, order, notice, or
agreement issued or entered into under this chapter, shall not preclude the
imposition by the POTW, the village, or a court of competent jurisdiction of a
combination of any or all of those sanctions and remedies or additional
sanctions and remedies with respect to the same violation, consistent with
applicable limitations on penalty amounts under state or federal laws or
regulations. A criminal citation and prosecution of a criminal action against a
person shall not be dependent upon and need not be held in abeyance during any
civil, judicial, or administrative proceeding, conference, or hearing regarding
the person.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW AND APPEALS
§ 53.325 PROCEDURES AVAILABLE.
   Any person aggrieved by a notice, citation, order, charge, fee, surcharge,
penalty, fine, or other action taken by the POTW Manager under this chapter may
request an informal hearing before the POTW Manager or an appeal to the POTW
Board of Appeals as provided by this subchapter. If an informal hearing or
appeal is not properly and timely requested in connection with an action as
provided by this chapter, the action shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.326 INFORMAL HEARING BEFORE THE POTW MANAGER.
   A request for an informal hearing before the POTW Manager must be made in
writing within seven days from the date of the POTW Manager’s action in
question. The request must state the reasons for the appeal and shall include
all supporting documents and dates. The informal hearing shall be scheduled at
the earliest practicable date, but not later than seven days after receipt by
the village of the request, unless the seven-day time period is extended by the
mutual written agreement of the aggrieved party and the POTW Manager. The
hearing shall be conducted on an informal basis at the Village Hall or at
another location designated by the POTW Manager. The hearing shall be conducted
by the POTW Manager as determined appropriate by the POTW Manager under the
circumstances. Following the informal hearing, the POTW Manager may affirm or
reverse, in whole or in part, the action appealed from, or may make any order,
requirement, decision, or determination as, in the Manager’s opinion, ought to
be made in the case under consideration. The decision of the Manager may be
appealed to the POTW Board of Appeals as provided by §
53.327.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.327 APPEAL TO POTW BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Village Council shall act as the POTW Board of Appeals to consider
appeals from final decisions of the POTW Manager.
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern appeals of final decisions of
the POTW Manager made to the POTW Board of Appeals under this chapter.
      (1)   An appeal from any final action of the POTW Manager must be made to
the POTW Board of Appeals within seven days from the date of the action
appealed. The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved by the action. The
appellant shall file a notice of appeal with the POTW Manager and with the POTW
Board of Appeals and shall be accompanied by payment of the appeal fee in the
amount as established by resolution of the Village Council. The notice of
appeal shall specify the grounds for the appeal and shall include all
documentation that will be submitted in support of the appeal. All
documentation and evidence in support of the appeal shall be provided at the
sole cost of the appellant. Failure to file a timely notice of appeal shall be
deemed to be a waiver of the right to appeal.
      (2)   Prior to a hearing before the POTW Board of Appeals regarding an
appeal, the POTW Manager shall transmit to the POTW Board of Appeals a written
summary of all previous action taken in connection with the action being
appealed. The POTW Board of Appeals may, at its discretion, request the POTW
Manager to provide further information regarding the action that is the subject
of the appeal.
      (3)   The POTW Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to require the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in the hearing. Any testimony taken at the hearing shall
be under oath and recorded. A copy of the transcript of the hearing shall be
made available at cost to any person upon payment of applicable charges for the
transcript. The POTW Board of Appeals shall decide the appeal within a
reasonable time.
      (4)   The POTW Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, the action appealed from, or may make any order, requirement, decision,
or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made in the case under
consideration. To that end, the POTW Board of Appeals shall have all the powers
of the POTW Manager as provided by this chapter.
      (5)   The final disposition of the appeal shall be in the form of a
ruling by the POTW Board of Appeals, either reversing, modifying, or affirming,
in whole or in part, the action of the POTW Manager. The action of the POTW
Manager shall not be reversed or modified, in whole or in part, and the POTW
Board of Appeals shall not otherwise find in favor of the appellant except by a
majority vote of the POTW Board of Appeals. The decision of the POTW Board of
Appeals shall be final.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.328 PAYMENT OF CHARGES, PENALTIES, FINES, AND OTHER COSTS OR FEES PENDING
OUTCOME OF APPEAL.
   (A)   All service charges, penalties, fines, fees, surcharges, costs, or
expenses outstanding during any appeal process shall be due and payable to the
village.
   (B)   Upon resolution of any appeal, the village shall adjust the amounts
due and payable accordingly, provided that any refunds shall be retroactive to
the previous four monthly billings only.
   (C)   The village may terminate wastewater treatment services if a
corrective course of action is not taken or if service charges, penalties,
fines, fees, surcharges, costs, or expenses are not paid.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.329 FINALITY OF ACTION.
   If an appeal is not demanded as provided by this subchapter within the
periods specified by this subchapter, the POTW Manager’s action shall be deemed
final. If an appeal is properly demanded, the action appealed shall be
suspended until a final determination has been made by the POTW Board of
Appeals, except for: orders to immediately cease and desist discharge; orders
to terminate sewer services; other emergency orders or actions where a
suspension or delay might endanger human health, the environment, or the POTW;
and as otherwise expressly provided by this chapter (such as for permit
appeals, §
53.118).
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.330 APPEALS FROM DETERMINATION OF POTW BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Appeals from the determination of the POTW Board of Appeals may be made to
circuit court as provided by law. All findings of fact made by the POTW Board
of Appeals, if supported by the evidence, shall be deemed conclusive.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
MUNICIPAL LIABILITY
§ 53.345 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   Neither the POTW nor the village (including, but not limited to, village
staff, employees, and officials) shall be responsible for interruptions of
service due to natural calamities, equipment failures, or the actions of users.
It shall be the responsibility of the users that all connected equipment remain
in good working order so as not to cause disruption of service of any sewer or
treatment plant equipment.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM FEES
§ 53.360 PURPOSE.
   It is a purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery from users of
the POTW of all costs incurred by the POTW for the administration and
implementation by the POTW of the industrial pretreatment program (IPP)
established by this chapter. The IPP fees provided for by this subchapter are
separate from, and in addition to, amounts chargeable to users for sewage
disposal services by the village and/or the POTW and costs required to be
reimbursed to the village and/or the POTW under any other provisions of this
chapter or other laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.361 RATES, CHARGES, AND FEES FOR NON-DOMESTIC USERS.
   (A)   Sewerage system rates, charges, or fees payable by non-domestic users
shall be established by resolution by the Village Council, and shall be subject
to amendment or revision from time to time.
   (B)   Such rates, charges, or fees shall be sufficient to meet the costs of
the operation, maintenance, improvement, or replacement of the sewerage system
and the treatment plant, and may include any of the following:
      (1)   Fees to reimburse the village for the costs of development and
operation of an industrial pretreatment program, and fees to reimburse the POTW
for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures, including expenses
incurred for analysis of samples;
      (2)   Fees for reviewing discharge reports, and for related enforcement
procedures;
      (3)   Fees for permit applications;
      (4)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (5)   Fees for removal by the POTW of pollutants subject to federal or
state pretreatment standards;
      (6)   User fees based on volume of waste and concentration or quantity of
specific pollutants in the discharge;
      (7)   Other charges or fees for services or procedures performed by the
POTW as are required by law; and
      (8)   Such other charges or fees as the Village Council may deem
necessary to perform fully the provisions of applicable federal and state laws,
this chapter, rules, and regulations issued or adopted pursuant to law or
ordinance, and terms and conditions of service.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.362 IPP FEE AMOUNTS.
   IPP fees shall be paid by users to the POTW in amounts determined necessary
by the POTW Manager from time to time to reimburse the POTW for all expenses
incurred by the POTW and/or the village in administering the IPP. To the extent
practical, the fees shall be set in an amount to include at least the POTW’s
and the village’s average total costs for that purpose. With regard to IPP
activities undertaken by the POTW and/or the village with regard to particular
users, the fees shall be charged to the users on a time and materials basis,
plus general administrative expenses, based on the nature and requirements of
the IPP activities undertaken.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.363 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Surcharges are intended to reimburse the POTW for all costs incurred
by the POTW in handling or treating a discharge that contains pollutants in
excess of specified surcharge concentrations, loadings, or other applicable
limits.
   (B)   Any user exceeding applicable surcharge limitations or other
applicable limits shall be subject to the imposition of one or more surcharges
as provided by this section to reimburse the POTW for any costs or expenses,
direct or indirect, the POTW may incur in handling or treating the discharge,
or which may be imposed upon the POTW, where the exceedance of applicable
limits causes or contributes to those costs or expenses.
   (C)   The amount of a surcharge assessed shall be as specified in the
surcharge rate schedule and associated surcharge provisions prepared by the
POTW and approved from time-to-time by resolution of the Village Council.
   (D)   All violations of applicable discharge prohibitions and limitations
and all instances of noncompliance with applicable discharge requirements shall
constitute a violation of this chapter, subject to applicable fines, penalties,
and other enforcement actions provided by this chapter. In no event shall the
imposition of a surcharge for a discharge that does not meet the applicable
prohibitions, limitations, or requirements be construed as authorizing the
illegal discharge or otherwise excuse a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.364 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF IPP FEES.
   (A)   User permit application fees shall be due upon submission of permit
applications.
   (B)   All other IPP fees shall be due within 30 days of the date of the
activity or service for which the fee is required.
   (C)   IPP fees provided for by this subchapter shall be billed, collected,
and enforced pursuant to the same procedures as provided by the Village Council
for sewerage system rates and charges as provided by §§
53.375 through
53.382 and/or as otherwise established by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
53.999
RATES AND CHARGES FOR SEWER SERVICE
§ 53.375 RATES FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   The Village Council shall, by resolution, prescribe rates for sewer service
and other sewer charges for all users of the sewerage system, and rates shall
be subject to revision from time to time. The POTW shall submit such
information, data, and recommendations as the Village Council may require for
the determination of sewer service rates.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.376 SERVICE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The terms and conditions of sewerage system use and/or service shall
be as prescribed by the POTW; provided, however, that such terms and conditions
shall not be less stringent than federal or state laws or regulations issued
pursuant thereto by governmental agencies having jurisdiction in the premises.
   (B)   The terms and conditions of sewerage system services shall include a
provision for the discontinuance of service in the event of nonpayment or
delinquency in payment of sewer service rates or charges.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.377 LIEN.
   The village shall have as security for the collection of sewerage system
rates or charges a lien upon the real property to which service is provided.
Such lien shall become effective immediately upon the supplying of the sewerage
system service, and shall be enforceable as provided by law.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.378 COLLECTION ACTION.
   The village may, in any court having jurisdiction in the premises, initiate
an action for the collection of unpaid sewer service rates or charges, and to
recover court costs and reasonable attorney fees. With respect to the
collection of sewerage system rates and charges, the village shall have all
powers granted to villages by applicable state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.379 SEPARATE BOOKS, RECORDS, AND ACCOUNTS; AUDIT.
   (A)   The POTW shall maintain and keep books of records and accounts,
separate from all other records and accounts, in which shall be made full and
correct entries of all matters relating to the sewerage system and to the
wastewater treatment plant.
   (B)   An annual audit of such books of record and accounts for the preceding
operating year shall be by an independent certified public accountant, who
shall make available such audit reports to the village.
   (C)   The operating year of the POTW shall commence on October 1 and shall
end on September 30.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.380 ANNUAL REVIEW OF RATES, FEES, CHARGES, AND SURCHARGES.
   In conjunction with the annual sewerage works audit of the POTW, the village
shall review sewer rates, fees, charges, and surcharges for the purpose of
meeting anticipated expenditures for the following operating year.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.381 ANNUAL REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   A review shall be performed by the POTW at the end of each operating year of
the classifications of all industrial users.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.382 INSURANCE.
   The village shall obtain and maintain in full force and effect such
insurance on the physical properties of the sewerage works, said insurance to
be of such kinds and in such amounts as are customarily carried by
municipalities engaged in the operation of public sewage disposal systems. All
monies received for losses under any such insurance coverages shall be used
solely for the repair, restoration, or replacement of the sewerage system or of
the wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infractions.
      (1)   Violation; municipal civil infraction. Except as provided by
division (B) below, and notwithstanding any other provision of the village’s
laws, ordinances, and regulations to the contrary, a person who violates any
provision of this chapter (including, without limitation, any notice, order,
permit, decision, or determination promulgated, issued, or made by the POTW
under this chapter) is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to
payment of a civil fine of not less than $1,000 per day for each infraction and
not more than $10,000 per day for each infraction, plus costs and other
sanctions.
       (2)   Repeat offenses; increased fines. Increased fines may be imposed
for repeat offenses. As used in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or
any subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provision of this chapter: committed by a person within any 90-day period; and
for which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
The increased fine for a repeat offense under this chapter shall be as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
a minimum of $1,500, plus costs; and
         (b)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be a minimum of $3,000, plus costs.
      (3)   Amount of fines. Subject to the minimum fine amounts specified in
this division (A) and division (B) below, the following factors shall be
considered by the court in determining the amount of a municipal civil
infraction fine following the issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation
for a violation of this chapter: the type, nature, severity, frequency,
duration, preventability, potential and actual effect, and economic benefit to
the violator (such as delayed or avoided costs or competitive advantage) of a
violation; the violator’s recalcitrance or efforts to comply; the economic
impacts of the fine on the violator; and such other matters as justice may
require. A violator shall bear the burden of demonstrating the presence and
degree of any mitigating factors to be considered in determining the amount of
a fine. However, mitigating factors shall not be considered unless it is
determined that the violator has made all good faith efforts to correct and
terminate all violations.
      (4)   Authorized local official. Notwithstanding any other provision of
the village’s laws, ordinances, and regulations to the contrary, the following
persons are designated as the authorized local officials to issue municipal
civil infraction citations directing alleged violators to appear in district
court for violations of this chapter (or, if applicable, to issue municipal
civil infraction notices directing alleged violators to appear at a municipal
ordinance violations bureau): the POTW Manager and the POTW Manager’s
designees; any sworn law enforcement officer; and any other persons so
designated by the village.
      (5)   Other requirements and procedures. Except as otherwise provided by
this section, the requirements and procedures for the following shall be as set
forth in Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended: commencing municipal civil
infraction actions; issuance and service of municipal civil infraction
citations; determination and collection of court-ordered fines, costs, and
expenses; appearances and payment of fines and costs; failure to answer,
appear, or pay fines; disposition of fines, costs, and expenses paid; and other
matters regarding municipal civil infractions.
    (B)   Criminal penalties; imprisonment. Any person who does any of the
following shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of $500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both
in the discretion of the court: at the time of a violation knew or should have
known that a pollutant or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of
this chapter, or contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision, or
determination promulgated, issued, or made by the POTW under this chapter;
intentionally makes a false statement, representation, or certification in an
application for, or form pertaining to, a permit, or in a notice, report, or
record required by this chapter, or in any other correspondence or
communication, written or oral, with the POTW regarding matters regulated by
this chapter; intentionally falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any
sampling or monitoring device or record required to be maintained by this
chapter; or commits any other act that is punishable under state law by
imprisonment for more than 90 days.
    (C)   Continuing violation. Each act of violation, and each day or portion
of a day that a violation of this chapter (or of any permit, order, notice, or
agreement issued or entered into under this chapter) exists or occurs,
constitutes a separate violation subject to the fines, penalties, and other
sanctions and remedies as provided by this chapter.
   (D)   Damage to POTW equipment. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
maliciously or willfully break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment that is part of the POTW. Any
person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
charge of disorderly conduct, and shall be subject to other sanctions and
remedies as provided by this chapter including, but not limited to,
reimbursement of the POTW as provided by §
53.307.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 7-20-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Adoption of Uniform Traffic Code
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   Code and amendments and revisions adopted. The Uniform Traffic Code
for Cities, Townships, and Villages as promulgated by the Director of the State
Department of State Police pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act of
1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 through 24.328, and made
effective in this state are incorporated and adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in code. References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships, and Villages to a “governmental unit” shall mean the village.
   (C)   Notice to be published. The Village Clerk shall publish this section
in the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice
stating the purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and
Villages and the fact that a complete copy of the code is available to the
public at the office of the Village Clerk, Village of Eau Claire, 6625 East
Main Street, Eau Claire, Michigan 49111, for inspection.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 1-19-2004; Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships,
and Villages are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2003-4, passed 1-19-2004; Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-20-2009)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
71.01   Establishment
   
71.02   Location
   
71.03   Violations; dispositions
   
71.04   Settling a violation
   
71.05   Notice of violation is allegation only
   
71.06   Schedule of offenses and fines
§ 71.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act of the state, as
added by Public Act 154 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8101 et seq., a Parking
Violations Bureau, for the purpose of handling alleged parking violations
within the village, is hereby established.
   (B)   The Parking Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and
control of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 71.02 LOCATION.
   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the approval of the Village Council,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint
qualified village employees to administer the Bureau, and adopt rules and
regulations for the operations thereof.
(Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 71.03 VIOLATIONS; DISPOSITIONS.
   (A)   No violation not scheduled in §
71.06 shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau.
   (B)   The fact that a particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle
the alleged violator to disposition of the violation at the Bureau and, in any
case, the person in charge of having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn
complaint before any court having jurisdiction of the offense as provided by
law.
(Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 71.04 SETTLING A VIOLATION.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any act or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have any such
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges, and protection accorded to him or her by law.
(Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 71.05 NOTICE OF VIOLATION IS ALLEGATION ONLY.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police officer
of the village shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation. Such
traffic ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in
which the person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking
Violations Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours
during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the
offense for which the ticket was issued, and the amount that will be sought if
such a person fails to respond within the time limit.
(Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 71.06 SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND FINES.
Uniform Traffic Code Violations
Offense UTC Section Penalty
Uniform Traffic Code Violations
Offense                                                     UTC Section Penalty
Angle parking violation                                     8.3         $5
Bicycle parking violations                                  5.17        $5
Bus, parking other than bus                                 8.19        $5
Bus, taxicab stand violations                               8.20        $5
Failure to set brakes                                       5.58        $5
In alley                                                    8.13        $5
In prohibited zone (sign required)                          8.10(r)     $5
Loading zone violation                                      8.16, 8.17  $5
Obstructing traffic                                         8.5         $5
Parked on grade wheels not turned to curb                   5.58        $5
Parking for prohibited purpose - displaying advertising     8.14        $5
Parking for prohibited purpose - displaying vehicle for     8.14        $5
sale
Parking for prohibited purpose - selling merchandise        8.14        $5
Parking for prohibited purpose - storage over 48 hours      8.14        $5
Parking for prohibited purpose - working or repairing       8.14        $5
vehicle
Prohibited parking (no signs) - beside street excavation    8.10        $5
when traffic obstructed
Prohibited parking (no signs) - blocking emergency exit     8.10        $5
Prohibited parking (no signs) - blocking fire escape        8.10        $5
Prohibited parking (no signs) - double parking              8.10        $5
Prohibited parking (no signs) - in front of drive           8.10        $5
Prohibited parking (no signs) - on bridge or viaduct or     8.10        $5
within tunnel
Prohibited parking (no signs) - on crosswalk                8.10        $5
Prohibited parking (no signs) - on sidewalk                 8.10        $5
Prohibited parking (no signs) - within 15 feet of hydrant   8.10        $5
Prohibited parking (no signs) - within 20 feet of crosswalk 8.10        $5
or within 15 feet of corner lot lines
Prohibited parking (no signs) - within 20 feet of fire      8.10        $5
station entrance
Prohibited parking (no signs) - within 30 feet of street    8.10        $5
side traffic sign or signal
Prohibited parking (no signs) - within 50 feet of railroad  8.10        $5
crossing
Prohibited parking (no signs) - within 200 feet of accident 8.10        $5
where police in attendance
Prohibited parking (no signs) - within intersection         8.10        $5
Taxicab, parking other than cab stand                       8.19        $5
Wrong side boulevard roadway                                8.15        $5
Additional Offenses and Penalty Variations
Offense First Offense Second Offense Third and Subsequent
Additional Offenses and Penalty Variations
Offense                             First Offense Second Offense Third and
                                                                 Subsequent
Abandoned vehicle (plus towing and  $5            $10            $15
storage charge)
All night parking                   $5            $10            $15
Between sidewalk and curb           $5            $10            $15
Disabled vehicle, failure to move   $5            $10            $15
In prohibited zone - fire lane      $5            $10            $15
In prohibited zone - prohibited     $5            $10            $15
zone
Keys in vehicle or motor running    $5            $10            $15
Parking on grade prohibited (signs  $5            $10            $15
required)
Parking prohibited from 2:00 a.m.   $5            $10            $15
to 6:00 a.m. designated streets
Private property, without owner’s $5            $10            Court
consent
 
(Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1968; Ord. 1998-6, passed 9-14-1998)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Trucks; weight limits
SCHEDULE I. TRUCKS; WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle with a gross weight of 5,000 pounds or more shall be
parked on any of the streets, or other property of the village, with the
exception of Main Street, except as otherwise provided in this schedule.
   (B)   Such motor vehicles may deliver or pick up items on streets other than
Main Street; provided however, they shall be parked only for the length of time
necessary to make the pick up or delivery.
   (C)   Trucks of any weight or size may be parked on First Street, which will
be known as the truck parking area.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating this schedule shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not exceeding $100 for each violation.
   (E)   This schedule shall be effective 30 days after adoption.
(Ord. 25, passed - -)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   PARKS AND BALLFIELDS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Fire Protection
   
90.01   Prohibition
   
90.02   Yard waste
Noxious Weeds
   
90.15   Title
   
90.16   Definitions
   
90.17   Duty to destroy/cut noxious weeds and uncontrolled plant growth
   
90.18   Public nuisance
   
90.19   Administrative procedures and remedial actions to enforce
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Abandonment of vehicles
   
90.32   Leaving of wrecked, nonoperating vehicle on street
   
90.33   Disposition of wrecked or discarded vehicles
   
90.34   Impounding
   
90.35   Notifying owner of impounded vehicle
   
90.36   Notifying Secretary of State of impounded vehicle
 
   
90.99   Penalty
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 90.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person or persons shall burn or fire papers, shavings, offal, rubbish, or
any other materials or things at, within, or upon the village fire limits, nor
shall build any trash fire of any kind thereon or therein except as shall be
contained in a commercial type incinerator approved by the Fire Marshal, with
the exception of fall or early spring burning of leaves within the village
limits. Any other exceptions must have a burning permit issued by authorized
personnel.
(Ord. 1977-1, passed 5-9-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      YARD WASTE. Organic materials grown/cultivated on residential property.
   (B)   Rules. 
      (1)   This section is written for yard waste only and specifically does
not address all other burning/fires of any other materials, chemicals, or
items.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the property owner to ensure all fires
are conducted in a safe manner to protect both personal and property
protection. If ordered by any jurisdictional or enforcement official to
extinguish, the property owner shall immediately comply in a safe and timely
manner.
      (3)   Burning, from ignition to a minimum of one hour after
extinguishing, shall be monitored at all times by a responsible adult with a
prepared supply of water or alternative means capable of extinguishing all
burnable materials. Burning shall be conducted on the property for which the
permit is granted and shall be located no closer than two feet from any roadway
nor 20 feet from any combustible structure.
(Ord. 2001-3, passed 5-21-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 90.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Eau
Claire Noxious Weed Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 90.16 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings stated herein:
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Canada thistle (Circium Arvense), dodders (any species of
Cascuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of
Brassica or Sunapis), wild carrot (Daucus Carota), bindweed (Convolvulus
Arvensis), perennial sowthistle (Sonchus Arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa
Incana), ragweed (Ambrosia Elatior 1.), poison ivy (Rhus Toxicodendron), poison
sumac (Toxicodendron Vernix), and any other plant species which the Village
Council determines, by resolution, is regarded in the community as a common
nuisance weed.
   OWNER and OCCUPANT. Any person or entity with any ownership or possessory
right or interest, including deed holders and land contract vendees (whether
recorded or unrecorded), mortgagees, lessees, and other tenants, residents, and
any agent of any of same.
   UNCONTROLLED PLANT GROWTH. Any non-woody vegetation exceeding a height of
six inches; except where such vegetation is not out of character with the
development of and landscaping in the surrounding area within 500 feet, and
also excepting all small grain or food crops.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 DUTY TO DESTROY/CUT NOXIOUS WEEDS AND UNCONTROLLED PLANT GROWTH.
   The owner and occupant of a land on which noxious weeds are found growing
shall destroy such weeds before they reach a seed bearing stage, or a height of
six inches, whichever occurs first, and shall prevent their regrowth; provided
that this requirement shall not apply to any incidental noxious weeds in fields
devoted to growing any small grain or vegetable crop.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 90.18 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All noxious weeds and uncontrolled plant growth in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 90.19 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES AND REMEDIAL ACTIONS TO ENFORCE.
   (A)   The village shall give notice of the application of this subchapter by
one or both of the following means:
      (1)   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the village during
the month of March a notice that weeds and/or plant growth in violation of this
subchapter not destroyed/cut by May 1 of that year as required by this
subchapter may be destroyed/cut by the village, and that the owner of any such
land shall be charged with the expenses incurred by the village to destroy/cut
such weeds/plant growth as many times as is necessary to keep the land in
compliance with this subchapter, and that the village shall have a lien against
the land for the amount of such expenses, and that such lien shall be enforced
in the manner provided by state law for the enforcement of real property tax
liens; and/or
      (2)   Mail by first class mail through the United States Postal Service a
notice to the owner, occupant or agent of any lands in violation of this
subchapter, describing the methods of treating and eradicating the weeds and/or
of otherwise complying with this subchapter, and giving notice of those matters
referenced in division (A)(1) immediately above. Failure to give such notice
shall not constitute a defense to any action to enforce the payment of any
penalty or debt provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   If the owner/occupant/agent has failed or refuses to comply with this
subchapter after either form of notice provided for in division (A) above, the
village or its agent/designee may enter upon such land with or without
mechanical equipment and destroy/cut the weeds/plant growth thereon in
violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   All expenses incurred in such destruction/cutting shall be paid by the
owner of such land. The village shall have a lien upon such land for the full
amount of such expenses, which may be enforced in the same manner as the
enforcement of real property tax liens through entry upon the next tax roll of
the village and assessment as a general village tax. Such expenses shall be
subject to all interest and penalties provided for taxes due and collectible
within the village under the general tax laws of the state of Michigan. In
addition to the foregoing, the village may sue the owner in an appropriate
court of law for the collection of such expenses.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-16-2020)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by the use of wheels, treads, or runners and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon.
(Ord. 15, passed - -)
§ 90.31 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the village and no person shall
leave any vehicle at any place within the village for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
(Ord. 15, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 LEAVING OF WRECKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLE ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the village.
(Ord. 15, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the village, whether
as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than 48 hours; except that this subchapter shall not apply
with regard to: a vehicle in an enclosed building; a vehicle on the premises of
a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to
the operation of such business enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
village.
(Ord. 15, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or other appropriate official, or any member of
his or her Department designated by him or her, is hereby authorized to remove,
or have removed, any vehicle left at any place within the village which
reasonably appears to be in violation of this subchapter or lost, stolen, or
unclaimed.
   (B)   Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of.
(Ord. 15, passed - -)
§ 90.35 NOTIFYING OWNER OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in this
subchapter, and the officer knows or is able to ascertain the name and address
of the owner thereof, such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given
notice in writing to such owner of the fact of such removal, and the reasons
therefor, and of the place to which such vehicle has been removed. In the event
any such vehicle is stored in a garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to
the proprietor of such garage.
(Ord. 15, passed - -)
§ 90.36 NOTIFYING SECRETARY OF STATE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in this
subchapter, and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of the
owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as
hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the
owner within a period of three days, then and in that event the officer shall,
within a reasonable period of time, send or cause to be sent a written report
of such removal by mail to the Secretary of State, and shall file a copy of
such notice with the proprietor of any garage in which the vehicle may be
stored. Such notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the
date, time, and place from which removed, the reasons for such removal, and the
name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
(Ord. 15, passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §
90.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than
$100 and the costs of prosecution or by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period of not more than 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.30 through
90.36 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100 or be imprisoned in the county
jail for a period not exceeding 30 days or be both so fined and imprisoned.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Any person or entity who violates, disobeys, neglects or
refuses to comply with any provision of §§
90.15 through
90.19, or any order issued under those sections, including any conditions
imposed thereon, or who causes, allows, or consents to any of same, shall be
deemed to be responsible for a violation of §§
90.15 through
90.19.
         (b)   Any person or entity responsible for a violation of §§
90.15 through
90.19, whether as an occupant, owner, licensee, agent, contractor, servant,
employee, or otherwise, shall be liable as a principal. Each day that a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
90.15 through
90.19 shall constitute a basis for such judgment, write or order necessary to
compel compliance with the sections and/or to restrain and prohibit
continuation of the violation, or other appropriate relief in any court of
competent jurisdiction, in addition to any other relief or sanction herein set
forth or allowed by law.
      (3)   (a)   A violation of §§
90.15 through
90.19 is a municipal civil infraction as defined by Michigan statute and shall
be punishable by a civil fine determined in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
                            Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
First offense               $150         - - -
Second offense              $325         - - -
Third or subsequent offense $500         - - -
 
         (b)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, which the village has incurred in connection
with the municipal civil infraction.
      (4)   §§
90.15 through
90.19 shall be administered and enforced by the person designated by the
Village Council as the Village Noxious Weed Commissioner, by the ordinance
enforcement officer(s) of the village, or by such other persons(s) as the
Village Council may designate from time to time.
(Ord. 15, passed - -; Ord. 1977-1, passed 5-9-1977; Ord. 2009-4, passed - -
2009; Ord. 2020-1, passed 3-16- 2020)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND BALLFIELDS
Section
   
91.01   Hours of operation
   
91.02   Camping
   
91.03   Alcohol and drugs
   
91.04   Fires; hunting; firearms
   
91.05   Animals
   
91.06   Reservation of pavilions
   
91.07   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The parks shall remain open from 8:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. each day.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-15-2011)
§ 91.02 CAMPING.
   No camping shall be allowed on park premises.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-15-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ALCOHOL AND DRUGS.
   The possession or use of alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs shall be
prohibited from all park areas and arrests may be made per state statutes or
local ordinance.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-15-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 FIRES; HUNTING; FIREARMS.
   No open fires, hunting, or firearms shall be allowed in the park.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-15-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ANIMALS.
   All animals must remain on a leash; all animal waste must be removed by
owner.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-15-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 RESERVATION OF PAVILIONS.
   The pavilions may be reserved for use through the Village Clerk’s office.
The phone number is (269)-461-6173.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-15-2011)
§ 91.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter went into effect 30 days after the date of legal publication.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-15-2011)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Littering on park property is punishable by a $100 fine.
   (B)   Vandalism to park property is punishable by a $500 fine, plus repair
costs.
   (C)   Violations of §
91.05 are punishable by a $100 fine.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 8-15-2011)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Backyard chickens
Animal Regulations
   
92.15   Dog limit
   
92.16   Licensing
   
92.17   Kennels
   
92.18   Leash requirements
   
92.19   Noisy dogs/pets
   
92.20   Livestock, horses, and fowl
   
92.21   Defecation disposal
   
92.22   Destruction of the animal
   
92.23   Grandfather clause
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 BACKYARD CHICKENS.
   (A)   Generally. No village residences may be in possession of chickens
without completing an application and written consent forms signed by all
neighbors connected to the property line.
   (B)   Keeping of chickens.
      (1)   Any person who keeps chickens in the village shall obtain a permit
from the village prior to acquiring the chickens. No permit shall be issued to
a person, by the village, and no chickens shall be allowed to be kept unless
the owners of all residentially zoned adjacent properties consent in writing to
the permit and this consent is presented along with an application for a
permit. Written statements waiving the distance requirement in division (B)(3)
below shall also be submitted at the time of application and become a part of
the permit as issued. Application shall be made to the Village Clerk and the
fee for the permit shall be as determined by Council resolution. Permits expire
and become invalid one year after the date of issuance. A person who wishes to
continue keeping chickens shall have obtained a new permit on or before the
expiration date of the previous permit. Application for a new permit shall be
pursuant to the procedures and requirements that are applicable at the time the
person applies for a new permit.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit by the village, private
restrictions on the use of property shall remain enforceable and take
precedence over a permit. Private restrictions include, but are not limited to,
deed restrictions, condominium master deed restrictions, neighborhood
association bylaws, and covenant deeds. A permit issued to a person whose
property is subject to private restrictions that prohibit the keeping of
chickens is void. The interpretation and enforcement of the private restriction
is the sole responsibility of the private parties involved.
      (3)   A person who keeps or houses chickens on his or her property shall
comply with all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Have been issued the permit required under division (B)(1)
above;
         (b)   Keep no more than four chickens;
         (c)   The principal use of the person’s property is for a single-
family dwelling or two-family dwelling;
         (d)   No person shall keep any rooster;
         (e)   No person shall slaughter any chickens;
         (f)   The chickens shall be provided with a covered enclosure and must
be kept in the covered enclosure or a fenced enclosure at all times;
         (g)   A person shall not keep chickens in any location on the property
other than in the backyard. For purposes of this section, BACKYARD means that
portion of a lot enclosed by the property’s rear lot line and the side lot
lines to the points where the side lot lines intersect with an imaginary line
established by the rear of the single-family or two-family structures and
extending to the side lot lines;
         (h)   No covered enclosure or fenced enclosure shall be located closer
than ten feet to any property line of an adjacent property;
         (i)   All enclosures for the keeping of chickens shall be so
constructed or repaired as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being
harbored underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure. A covered
enclosure or fenced enclosure shall not be located closer than 40 feet to any
residential structure on an adjacent property provided, however, this
requirement can be waived as follows:
            1.   If the principal use of applicant’s property is for a single-
family dwelling, to obtain such a waiver, the applicant shall present, at the
time of applying for a permit, the written statements of all adjacent
landowners that there is no objection to the issuance of the permit; and
            2.   If the principal use of the applicant’s property is for a two-
family dwelling, to obtain such a waiver the applicant shall present, at the
time of applying for a permit, the written statements of all adjacent
landowners and of the occupants of the other dwelling stating that there is no
objection to the issuance of the permit.
         (j)   For purposes of this section, ADJACENT PROPERTY means all
parcels of property that the applicant’s property comes into contact with at
one or more points, except for parcels that are legally adjacent to, but are in
fact separated from, the applicant’s property by a public or private street;
         (k)   All enclosures for the keeping of chickens shall be so
constructed or repaired as to prevent rats, mice, or other rodents from being
harbored underneath, within, or within the walls of the enclosure;
         (l)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens
that are likely to attract or to become infested with or infected by rats,
mice, or other rodents shall be protected so as to prevent rats, mice, or other
rodents from gaining access to or coming into contact with them; and
         (m)   If the above requirements are not complied with, the village may
revoke any permit granted under this section and/or initiate prosecution for a
civil infraction violation.
      (4)   A person who has been issued a permit shall submit it for
examination upon demand by any police officer or Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 2009-2B, passed 5-18-2009) Penalty, see §
92.99
ANIMAL REGULATIONS
§ 92.15 DOG LIMIT.
   No village residences may be in possession of any more than three adult
dogs, nor may any residence be in possession of any more than three dogs of any
age one month past weaning. It is prohibited for residential zoned property to
raise or breed any animal for sale or profit.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.16 LICENSING.
   All animals legally possessed must have and wear a current valid license
when required by Berrien County ordinance or a state statute or regulation, and
must have had all shots and inoculations required by county ordinance or state
statute or regulation. Evidence of all shots or inoculations shall be shown
upon request to any enforcement officer.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.17 KENNELS.
   Kennels used as commercial boarding or breeding of animals for sale or
profit are prohibited in areas zoned as residential in the village proper.
Kennels in areas zoned as commercial require a “special” use permit in
accordance with the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.18 LEASH REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, keeper or person in charge of any dog or
animal to permit or allow any such dog or animal to stray or go beyond the
premises of its owner, keeper or custodian, unless such dog or cat or animal is
held properly in leash. The maximum leash length shall be five feet in length.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.19 NOISY DOGS/PETS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dog or any other pet or animal owned or
possessed to make continuous or intermittent barking, yelping, growling or
other loud or disturbing noises which cause annoyance to neighbors or third
parties.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.20 LIVESTOCK, HORSES, AND FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful to stable or keep, unless the property is zoned
agricultural, except temporarily during parades or festival periods, when the
same will be ridden, driven or shown with the village, any horses, ponies,
mules, donkeys, calves, cows, steers, bulls, pigs, shoats, sheep, goats,
chickens (see § 92.01), turkeys, geese, ducks, or any other domestic livestock.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.21 DEFECATION DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, caretaker or attendant of a dog, cat or animal shall
allow that animal to defecate on public or private property other than their
own.
   (B)   If such dog, cat or animal does defecate upon such public or private
property, the owner, keeper, caretaker or attendant shall immediately clean the
fecal material from such public or private property.
   (C)   PUBLIC PROPERTY shall include any park, school ground, street or
sidewalk in the village.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.22 DESTRUCTION OF THE ANIMAL.
   In addition to all other remedies provided by this subchapter, any animal
that has been impounded for 20 days or more and the requirements for release of
impoundment are not satisfied or any dog living within the village as described
in §
92.15 may be destroyed at the direction of the village.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017)
§ 92.23 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   (A)   Village residents in possession of more than three dogs at the time of
adoption of this chapter are allowed to keep their animals until death or other
means of permanent removal from premises.
   (B)   But in no case shall any other dogs be added to the residence to raise
the total amount over three.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or any
other party found guilty of violating the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.23 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100 or imprisoned in the county jail not more than 90 days
or both. Further, the village may enforce the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.23 in any manner permissible by law; including seeking injunctive remedies.
      (2)   The village may impound an animal that is required to be licensed
or is prohibited under §§
92.15 through
92.23. The impoundment may be at the village or the Berrien County Animal
Control facility. The animal shall be impounded and shall not be released
until:
         (a)   The cost of impoundment has been paid.
         (b)   Satisfactory arrangements have been made to comply with §§
92.15 through
92.23.
(Ord. 1995-1A-2001, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1, passed 4-17-2017)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Public nuisances
   
93.02   Dangerous structures
   
93.03   Smoke and steam
   
93.04   Noises
   
93.05   Animals, birds, and bees
   
93.06   Litter
   
93.07   Handbills, stickers, dodgers, and the like
   
93.08   Restrictions as to posting
   
93.09   Vehicle storage and repair
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Whatever annoys, injures, or endangers the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs, or
renders dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake, or stream; or in any way
renders the public insecure in life or property is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, whatever is
forbidden by any provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall commit, create, or maintain any nuisance.
(Ord. 17, passed 2-14-1966) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 DANGEROUS STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No person shall maintain any structure which is unsafe or which is a
menace to the health, morals, or safety of the public.
   (B)   The Council may, after investigation, condemn such structure by giving
notice to the owner of the land upon which such structure is located,
specifying in what respect said structure is a public nuisance and requiring
said owner to alter, repair, tear down, or remove same within five days after
service of said notice.
   (C)   If, at the expiration of the time limit in said notice, the owner has
not complied with the requirements thereof, the Village President shall carry
out the requirements of said notice. The cost of such abatement shall be
charged against the premises and the owner thereof.
   (D)   The Village President may abate any such public nuisance if the public
safety requires immediate action without preliminary order of Council.
Thereafter, the cost of abating such nuisance shall be charged against the
premises and the owner thereof.
(Ord. 17, passed 2-14-1966) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 SMOKE AND STEAM.
   No person who is responsible therefor shall permit the emission from any
chimney or smoke stack of dense smoke or smoke containing soot or other
substance in sufficient quantity to noticeably permit the deposit of soot or
other substance within the village. The emission of smoke or other substance as
herein described shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 17, passed 2-14-1966) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 NOISES.
   No person operating or in control of a parked or moving motor vehicle
(including motorcycles and mopeds) shall operate, or permit the operation of,
an electronically amplified sound system in or on the vehicle so as to produce
sound that is clearly audible more than 50 feet from the vehicle, except as
follows:
   (A)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine, or emergency vehicle while
engaged in emergency or necessary public activities; or
   (B)   Sound made to alert persons to the existence of an emergency, danger,
or attempted crime, or for warning purposes authorized by law.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 9-20-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ANIMALS, BIRDS, AND BEES.
   (A)   No person shall be cruel to any animal or bird.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit any poisonous substance on any
exposed public or private place where it may endanger any animal, bird, or bee.
   (C)   Except by written permission of the Police Chief, no person, except a
peace officer in his or her official capacity, shall molest, injure, kill, or
capture any wild bird, or molest any wild bird’s nest, beehive, or the contents
thereof.
   (D)   No person shall harbor or keep any swine.
   (E)   No person shall harbor or keep any animal, bird, or bee which causes
annoyance in the neighborhood, either by:
      (1)   Barking, howling, braying, crowing, or other sound common to its
species;
      (2)   Failure of the owner, caretaker, or custodian to maintain in a
clean and sanitary condition, devoid of rodents and vermin, and free from
objectionable odor, all structures, pens, coops, or yards wherein any animal,
fowl, or bee is kept; or
      (3)   In the case of bees, stinging or molesting any person.
   (F)   No person shall permit any vicious dog of which he or she is the
owner, caretaker, or custodian to be unconfined unless securely muzzled and led
by leash. Any dog shall be deemed vicious which has bitten a person or domestic
animal without molestation, or which, by its actions, gives indication that it
is liable to bite any person or domestic animal without molestation.
   (G)   Whenever notice of a dog quarantine shall be published in the official
newspaper by the Health Officer, no person shall, during the period of such
quarantine, permit any dog, of which he or she is the owner, caretaker, or
custodian, to be unconfined except under the conditions specified in such
notice.
   (H)   No person shall deposit, place, or throw any dead or fatally sick or
injured animal, or part thereof, on any public or private place, or into, or on
the banks of, any stream, lake, pond, sewer, well, or other body of water.
   (I)   No person shall bury any dead or fatally sick or injured animal, or
part thereof, in the village except that the owner or occupant of any unplatted
property may bury thereon any dead animal owned by him or her dying on such
premises, after having obtained a written permit to do so from the Health
Officer. Such burial shall be made at a distance of not less than 200 yards
from any residence and the carcass shall be placed underground and well covered
with at least four feet of earth from the surface of the ground to the upper
part of the carcass.
   (J)   No person shall carry or convey any dead animal through or upon any
street, alley, or public place unless the same is so covered that no part of it
is exposed to view and no odors can emanate therefrom.
   (K)   Any dead animal, or part thereof, lying upon any street, alley, or
public place shall be removed by the Police Department forthwith. If any dead
animal, or part thereof, is upon private property, the owner or person in
charge of such animal at the time of its death shall dispose of the same, or
shall immediately report the facts to the Police Department, which Department
shall remove such animal forthwith. When any dead animal, or part thereof, is
removed from private property by the Police Department, a fee shall be charged
to the owner of the animal for such removal, which fee shall be determined by
administrative regulation.
(Ord. 17, passed 2-14-1966) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 LITTER.
   (A)   Name and purpose. This section shall be known and cited as the
“Village of Eau Claire Litter Ordinance.” The purpose of this section is to
limit and restrict the storage or unreasonable accumulation of junk upon the
premises within the township; to provide restrictions concerning the storage;
to avoid injury and hazards to children and others attracted to such litter;
and to minimize the devaluation of property and the psychological ill effects
of the presence of the same upon adjoining residents and property owners.
   (B)   Definitions. LITTER as used in this section means all garbage, scrap
and waste materials including rags, cartons, paper, cans, bottles, used lumber,
boxes, wooden skids or pallets or parts therefrom (excluding those stored and
used in connection with an industrial or commercial operation on the site),
inoperable and/or discarded/unused appliances and equipment, cut or broken tree
branches, and broken or discarded plaster, unused concrete, or unused brick
building materials.
   (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the
public authority having supervision of public property or the owner or occupier
of private property, to dump, deposit, place, throw or leave, or cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter or any
other materials on any public or private property or waters within the village
other than property designated and set aside for such purposes. The phrase
"public or private property or waters" includes, but is not limited to, the
right-of-way of any road or highway, any body of water or water course, or the
shores or beaches thereof, and including the ice above such waters; any park,
playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation area; and any
residential, commercial, industrial, or farm properties or vacant or unimproved
lands.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to aid, assist, or abet another
to violate any of the provisions of the section.
      (3)   The owner or occupant of any building or premises within the
village shall not permit or cause the outdoor storage of litter on such
premises, subject to the following exceptions:
         (a)   Such litter is temporarily stored outdoors for not more than 14
days or for longer than any period which would cause the same to be odoriferous
or a breeding place of insects or rodents, whichever is the lesser period.
         (b)   Such litter does not include garbage or other putrescible
liquids or solids, is screened from the view of all adjacent properties and
abutting public or private right-of-ways, and is being stored only between
monthly or more frequent regular disposal by the owner or occupant of the
premises in a lawful manner, or by monthly or more frequent regular collection
by a public or private litter or garbage disposal service.
         (c)   Logs, branches, or other scrap wood may be neatly stacked
outdoors on an occupied premises, provided such storage (1) does not exceed 640
cubic feet in area; (2) is not located within any required building setback
areas as specified in the Village Zoning Ordinance; and (3) complies with all
applicable fire codes and other ordinance requirements. The limitation of 350
cubic feet shall not apply to logs, branches, or other scrap wood stored and
used in connection with a lawful industrial, commercial or agricultural
operation on the site or in circumstances where the burning of wood is the main
source of heat for a residence.
         (d)   Such litter is located in a duly licensed and properly zoned
junk yard, salvage yard, or landfill where such uses or operations are legally
authorized under the Village Zoning Ordinance.
         (e)   A special permit is first obtained therefore for a period of not
to exceed 30 days from the Village Clerk or such other officer or official as
the Village Council may designate to be granted only in special hardship cases
beyond the control of the applicant, where special or peculiar circumstances
exist, where no adjoining property owner is adversely affected thereby and
where the spirit and purpose of these regulations are still observed. A special
permit granted hereunder may be renewed for not more than one additional 30 day
period upon a showing of due diligence and continued satisfaction of the
criteria set forth above for the issuance of the initial permit.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 HANDBILLS, STICKERS, DODGERS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall distribute, throw, drop, or scatter in any street, alley, or
public place of, in, or upon any vehicle located in any street, alley, or
public place any posters, handbills, cards, samples, or other matter used for
the purpose of advertising in such a manner as to result in the littering of
any street, alley, or public place.
(Ord. 17, passed 2-14-1966) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 RESTRICTIONS AS TO POSTING.
   (A)   No person shall attach, place, paint, write, stamp, or paste any sign,
advertisement, or other matter upon any: lamp post, electric light, railway,
telephone, or telegraph pole, shade tree, fire hydrant, or boxing covering
them; or bridge, pavement, sidewalk, or crosswalk, public building, or any
property or thing belonging to the village, or any article or thing within any
park; provided, that this division (A) shall not be construed to prevent any
public officer from so doing for any public purpose.
   (B)   No person shall attach, place, paint, write, stamp, or paste any sign,
advertisement, or other matter upon any house, wall, fence, gate, post, or tree
box without first having obtained the written permission of the owner, agents,
or occupants of the premises and having complied with the Building Code.
(Ord. 17, passed 2-14-1966) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 VEHICLE STORAGE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Name. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of
Eau Claire Vehicle Storage and Repair Ordinance.”
   (B)   Purpose and definitions.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to limit and restrict the
outdoor storage, parking, repair or unreasonable accumulation of junk, unused,
partially dismantled or nonoperating vehicles, including any conveyance,
trailer, boat, aircraft or new or used parts thereof upon premises within the
village; to provide restrictions concerning the repairing of said vehicles; to
avoid injury and hazards to children and others attracted to such vehicles; and
to minimize the devaluation of property and the psychological ill effects of
the presence of the same upon adjoining residents and property owners.
      (2)   Definitions. As used in this section the following words and
phrases shall have the following meaning:
         INOPERABLE. A vehicle or machinery with any of the following
conditions in existence:
            1.   Where it is being dismantled for the sale, salvage, repair or
reclamation of parts thereof.
            2.   Where it does not have all of its main component parts
properly attached.
            3.   Where any other or additional conditions exist which cause the
vehicle to be incapable of being driven under its own power, lawfully, upon the
public streets.
            4.   Where any other or additional conditions exist which cause the
machinery to be incapable of being used for the purpose for which it was
designed.
         MACHINERY. Any machine, motorized or not, operated or designed to be
operated for the purpose of agriculture, manufacturing, processing,
construction or transportation.
         MAIN COMPONENT PARTS. Fenders, hood, radiator, motor, windows, doors,
muffler, transmission, wheels, clutches, pulleys, and safety guards or any
other parts required by state law or by necessity for its operation upon a
public roadway, waterway or airway.
         VEHICLE. Any vehicle, motorized or not, operated or designed to be
operated on public highways, streets or roads.
   (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or store or permit to be
parked or stored upon any premises within the village any vehicle, including
any conveyance, boat, aircraft, or trailer of any kind or new or used parts
therefrom unless one or more of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Such parking or storage is located within a fully-enclosed
building or in an area that is totally obscured from adjacent premises or
adjacent roads or highways by natural land contours, evergreen screening or
fencing;
         (b)   Such vehicle or conveyance is licensed and registered in
accordance with the statutes and administrative rules of the State of Michigan
or of any state when actual ownership or control of that vehicle can be
established by a corporation or resident of that state, is an operable vehicle
or conveyance, has all of its main component parts attached, as hereinafter
defined, and is, in fact, regularly operated for its designed purpose.
         (c)   Such vehicles, boats, trailers, aircraft or conveyances are
located in a duly licensed and properly zoned junkyard, salvage yard, new or
used car dealer's lot, automobile repair facility or storage yard where such
uses or operations are legally authorized under the Village Zoning Ordinance;
         (d)   Such vehicle or vehicles are awaiting repairs or delivery to
owners at an authorized service station, garage, paint shop, or body shop
registered with the State of Michigan pursuant to 1974 PA 300, as amended,
provided such vehicle or vehicles are locked, licensed and registered by the
State of Michigan, and are not a public nuisance;
         (e)   Such vehicle, boat, trailer, aircraft or conveyance, although
temporarily inoperable because of minor mechanical failure, has substantially
all of its main component parts attached as hereinafter defined; is, where
subject to a license or registration, licensed or registered by the State of
Michigan; is not in any manner a dismantled vehicle; and the premises do not
contain any such vehicle, boat, aircraft, trailer or conveyance for more than
14 days in any one calendar year.
      (2)   No repairing, redesigning, modifying or dismantling work or
operations shall be allowed upon any vehicle, boat, trailer, aircraft or
conveyance or parts thereof upon any public right-of-way or public property
(except for emergency minor repairs not exceeding one hour in duration) or upon
any property not zoned for such purpose except such occasional minor work by
the owner thereof as may infrequently be required to maintain the same in
normal operating condition and as shall be accomplished within fully enclosed
buildings; will not constitute a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining property
owners or occupants; and does not violate any provisions of the Village Zoning
Ordinance.
   (D)   Nuisance. Any parking, storage, placement or operations in violation
of the provisions of this section are hereby declared to be a public nuisance
which may be enjoined or which may subject the violator to the fines and
penalties herein provided for.
(Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $10 or more than
$100 and the costs of prosecution or by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period of not more than 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
   (B)   A person who violates §
93.04 is responsible for a civil infraction, subject to a civil fine of not
more than $100 and costs.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
governmental entity who violates any of the provisions of §
93.06 shall be deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as
defined by Michigan statute which shall be punishable by a civil fine
determined in accordance with the following schedule:
 
                                                   Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
First offense within a three year period*          $75          $500
Second offense within a three year period*         $150         $500
Third offense within a three year period*          $325         $500
Fourth or more offense within a three year period* $500         $500
*Determined on the basis of the date of commission of the offense(s).
 
      (2)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, to which village has been put in connection with
the municipal civil infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less than
$10 nor more than $500 be ordered. In addition, the village shall have the
right to proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of
obtaining an injunction, restraining order, or other appropriate remedy to
compel compliance with §
93.06. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
governmental entity who violates any of the provisions of §
93.09 shall be deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction as
defined by Michigan statute which shall be punishable by a civil fine
determined in accordance with the following schedule:
 
                                                   Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
First offense within a three year period*          $75          $500
Second offense within a three year period*         $150         $500
Third offense within a three year period*          $325         $500
Fourth or more offense within a three year period* $500         $500
*Determined on the basis of the date of commission of the offense(s).
 
      (2)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, to which the village has been put in connection
with the municipal civil infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less
than $10 nor more than $500 be ordered. In addition, the village shall have the
right to proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of
obtaining an injunction, restraining order, or other appropriate remedy to
compel compliance with this §
93.09. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 17, passed 2-14-1966; Ord. 2004-1, passed 9-20-2004; Ord. 2020-2, passed
3-16-2020; Ord. 2020-3, passed 3-16-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   AUTO PARTS DEALERS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
114.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
116.   MEDICAL MARIHUANA
      
117.   ADULT USE MARIHUANA
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Public exhibitions and entertainments
   
110.02   Residential sales
Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants, and Solicitors
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   License requirement
   
110.17   Application procedure
   
110.18   Standards for issuance
   
110.19   Revocation procedure
   
110.20   Standards for revocation
   
110.21   Appeal procedure
   
110.22   Exhibition of identification
   
110.23   City policy on soliciting
   
110.24   Notice regulating soliciting
   
110.25   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
110.26   Prohibited solicitation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS AND ENTERTAINMENTS.
   (A)   No person or persons shall make or exhibit in the village any circus,
menagerie, caravan, theatrical or other exhibition, or give any concert, vocal
or instrumental, or exhibit any natural or artificial curiosity, or give any
public entertainment or amusement of any kind, without a license therefor, but
this section shall not be construed to extend to any exhibition, concert, fair,
or festival, by or in behalf of any public or private school, or any church or
benevolent society, or by any organization the primary object of which shall
not be the earning of money, nor to any lecture on historic, liter-art, or
scientific subjects. There shall be charged and collected for said license, for
the use of the village, under this section, $10 per day for every circus,
caravan, or menagerie, and $5 for every side show accompanying the same, and
for every theatrical or other entertainment mentioned in this section, and not
expected from its provisions, not less than $5 per day.
   (B)   All applications for a license shall be made to the Village Clerk.
Before issuing any license, the fee therefor as provided in this section shall
be paid to the Village Clerk, and each license shall be signed by the Clerk. No
license shall be granted for any time beyond the first Monday in June
thereafter, and all licenses, not expiring before said time, shall expire at
that time, and no license shall be transferable and the Village Council may
cancel any license at any time for cause.
(Ord. 12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 RESIDENTIAL SALES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPOSIT. A refundable fee set to ensure compliance with ordinance rules
and requirements.
      LICENSE. An official document providing permission to conduct a sale.
      RESIDENTIAL SALES. The sale of items from a noncommercial or
nonindustrial property. This definition includes, but is not limited to,
garage, rummage, estate, and moving sales.
   (B)   Rules.
      (1)   No residential sales will be held within the village limits without
first obtaining a license and paying a deposit to the Village Clerk’s office.
      (2)   The license and deposit fee shall be set by vote of the Village
Council.
      (3)   The deposit fee shall be refunded on completion of cleanup of all
items associated with the sale including, but not limited to, all signs,
postings, and notices.
      (4)   The refund of the cleanup deposit is subject to satisfactory
inspection by an official of the village or individual as designated by the
village.
      (5)   Cleanup shall be completed within 24 hours from completion of the
sale.
      (6)   Failure to comply with the requirements in this section will cause
forfeiture of deposit.
      (7)   The license fee shall be waived for sales held by charitable
organizations and senior citizens over the age of 65.
      (8)   No single property, location, or organization shall be licensed for
more than four sales within a calendar year. A break of a minimum period of
four days shall be between any two sales conducted at the same physical site or
property.
      (9)   No sale shall exceed a four-day consecutive period. The sale must
run consecutive days.
(Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-21-2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
§ 110.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
§ 110.16 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 110.19 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
110.20. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 110.20 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.21 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.18 or
110.20 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
110.19.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.22 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 110.24 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 110.25 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
110.24 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
110.24 above.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any clause, provision, or section of §
110.01 shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $50 or
by imprisonment in the county jail or the jail of the village not exceeding 30
days, or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court,
together with the costs of prosecution, the offender may be imprisoned in the
county jail or the jail of the village for a term not exceeding 30 days, unless
payment of such costs and fine be sooner paid. Every day that a violation of §
110.01 continues shall be treated as a separate offense.
(Ord. 12, passed - -)
CHAPTER 111: AUTO PARTS DEALERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Application for license
   
111.04   Granting of license; fence requirements
   
111.05   License fee
   
111.06   License rules and regulations
   
111.07   Revocation of license
   
111.08   Pawning, loaning, advances, and the like
   
111.09   Record book
   
111.10   Prohibitions on transacting business; reporting car information to
Police Department
   
111.11   Display of goods
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business regulations, general provisions, see
Chapter 110
   International Property Maintenance Code, see §
150.01
   Land usage, general provisions, see
Chapter 150
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEALER IN USED AUTO PARTS. Any person who engages in the business of
dismantling automobiles, or who deals in, buys, sells, or receives junk cars,
wrecked cars, used or second hand auto parts, accessories, or salvaged
automobiles.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons, firms, co-partnerships, corporations,
and all associations of natural persons, incorporated or unincorporated,
whether acting by themselves, or by a servant, agent, or employee, shall be
equally liable as principals.
(Ord. 14, passed - -)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, directly or indirectly, himself or herself, or by his or her
clerk, agent, or employee shall engage in the business of a dealer in used auto
parts, within the corporate limits of the village, without having first
obtained a license thereof from the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village
Council and filed with the Village Clerk; it shall give all such information as
may be deemed necessary for the proper enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, including the name and address of the applicant, the business or trade
name under which the applicant is to operate, previous experience in the
business, the names and addresses of all persons interested in the issuing of
the license, and, if the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of
the officers. It shall contain an agreement upon the part of the applicant that
he or she will accept the license, if granted him or her, upon the condition
that it may be suspended or revoked by the Village Council on proper cause
shown.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 GRANTING OF LICENSE; FENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   If the village is satisfied that the applicant is a suitable person to
engage in the business of dealer in used auto parts, it shall grant such
license; if the business of a dealer in used auto parts is to be conducted on a
vacant lot or in a partially enclosed structure, no license shall be granted
until the applicant therefor shall have enclosed such property with a properly
painted tight board fence at least eight feet high and erected in such manner
as to obliterate the premises from view, which fence shall at all times be
properly maintained, painted, and kept in repair by the licensee.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 LICENSE FEE.
   When such license has been granted, the Village Clerk shall issue the same
upon payment of the following license fee to the Village Treasurer: dealer in
used auto parts, $25 per year.
(Ord. 14, passed - -)
§ 111.06 LICENSE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Each license issued under this chapter shall designate the particular place
in said village where such business may be conducted and it shall be unlawful
for any licensee to engage in such business at any place other than that
designated in such license. Such license shall be subject to all the terms and
conditions of this chapter. It shall be always conspicuously displayed on the
licensed premises. It shall not be assignable or transferable. No person,
except the licensee, directly or indirectly shall do business or be permitted
to do business under said license. It shall be unlawful for such licensee to
remove, deface, or obliterate anything contained in such license.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be revoked by the
Village Council at any time for a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, or if it shall be satisfied that said business as conducted is
detrimental to the interest of the public. All licenses shall expire on
February 1 of each year unless sooner revoked by the Council.
(Ord. 14, passed - -)
§ 111.08 PAWNING, LOANING, ADVANCES, AND THE LIKE.
   No licensee shall receive, in the course of his or her business, any article
by way of pledge or pawn, nor shall he or she loan or advance any sum of money
on the security of any article or thing.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 RECORD BOOK.
   Each licensee shall keep a record book in accordance with the provisions of
the state law, relative to description of articles received in the course of
business.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 PROHIBITIONS ON TRANSACTING BUSINESS; REPORTING CAR INFORMATION TO
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   No licensee shall purchase, receive, or take any article mentioned in this
chapter from any person under the age of 18 years, from any intoxicated person,
from a habitual drunkard, or from any person known by reputation or suspected
by him or her to be a thief or an associate of thieves, or a receiver of stolen
property. No licensee shall wreck or cause to be wrecked, dismantled, or
disassembled any used or second-hand automobile, without first having reported
the license number, motor number, and serial number of such used or second hand
automobile to the Police Department. Such report shall be made 24 hours before
dismantling upon official forms to be furnished by the Police Department.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   No licensee shall make use of any street, sidewalk, or other part of the
highway, or any other property not in his or her possession, or under his or
her control for the storage or display of second-hand auto parts, accessories,
dismantled or salvaged automobiles, or other second hand goods.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine, not to exceed $100, and costs of prosecution, or
by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in
the discretion of the court, and when such fine and costs are imposed the court
shall provide that in default of the payment thereof, the offender shall be
imprisoned for a period not to exceed 90 days, unless such fine and costs shall
be sooner paid; provided no person shall be imprisoned for a single violation
of this chapter for a longer period than 90 days.
(Ord. 14, passed - -)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Liquor Licenses
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Applications; contents; fees
   
112.03   Public hearing; approval
   
112.04   Refusal to approve
   
112.05   Length of approval
   
112.06   Standards and guidelines for objection to renewal of request to State
Liquor Control Commission or request for revocation
   
112.07   Public hearing; refusal to renew or revocation
   
112.08   Procedure at public hearing; findings and determination; notification
   
112.09   Effective date
   
112.10   Application for approval of State Liquor Control Commission License
LIQUOR LICENSES
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Eau Claire
Liquor License Ordinance” and may be referred to herein as “this subchapter” or
“subchapter”.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 112.02 APPLICATIONS; CONTENTS; FEES.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever a person, joint venture, partnership, limited
liability company, or corporation which is in the process of obtaining a
license from the State Liquor Control Commission to sell alcoholic beverages
requests approval from the village for the issuance of the license from the
State Liquor Control Commission, the person, joint venture, partnership,
limited liability company, or corporation shall file a formal application for
approval with the Village Council.
   (B)   Application verification/information. The application to be filed with
the Village Clerk shall be verified by oath or affidavit and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; or, in the case of a partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the names and addresses of
the officers, directors, and shareholders;
      (2)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (3)   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application;
      (4)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this subchapter or the laws of the state;
      (5)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or of the United States or any ordinances of the village in the
conduct of its business; and
      (6)   The application shall be accompanied by building and plat plans
showing the entire structure and premises and in particular the specific areas
where the license is to be utilized. The plans shall demonstrate adequate off-
street parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities, and, where appropriate,
adequate plans for screening and noise control. The premises at which the
license is to be located shall be inspected by the appropriate village official
prior to the public hearing set forth in §
112.03. The premises shall comply with all ordinances of the village.
   (C)   Processing fee. Along with the application, the applicant shall pay a
processing fee which shall be set by the Village Council by resolution from
time to time.
   (D)   Restrictions on licenses. No license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person whose license, under this subchapter, has been revoked for
cause;
      (2)   A person who, at the time of application or renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      (3)   A joint venture, unless all of the members of such joint venture
shall qualify to obtain a license;
      (4)   A partnership, unless all of the members of such partnership shall
qualify to obtain a license;
      (5)   A limited liability company, if any officer, member, manager, or
director thereof would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason;
      (6)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or a
stock owner or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason;
      (7)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
      (8)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor
or a controlled substance;
      (9)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for which the
license is issued, or to a person, joint venture, partnership, limited
liability company, or corporation that does not have sufficient financial
assets to carry on or maintain the business;
      (10)   Any law enforcing public official or any member of the Village
Council, and no such official shall be interested in any way either directly or
indirectly in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
      (11)   For premises where there exists a violation of the applicable
building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, or fire codes, applicable zoning
regulations, applicable public health regulations, or any other applicable
village ordinance;
      (12)   For any new license or for the transfer of any existing license
unless the sale of beer, wine, or spirits is shown to be incidental and
subordinate to other permitted business uses upon the site such as, but not
limited to, food sales, motel operations, or recreational activities;
      (13)   For premises where it is determined by a majority of the Village
Council that the premises do not or will not, reasonably soon after
commencement of operations, have adequate off-street parking, lighting, refuse
disposal facilities, screening, noise, or nuisance control or where a nuisance
does or will exist; and
      (14)   Where the Village Council determines, by majority vote, that the
proposed location is inappropriate considering: the desirability of
establishing a location in developed, commercial areas, in preference to
isolated, undeveloped areas; the attitude of adjacent residents and property
owners; traffic safety; accessibility to the site from abutting roads;
capability of abutting roads to accommodate the commercial activity; distance
from public or private schools for minors; proximity of the inconsistent zoning
classification; and accessibility from primary roads or state highways.
   (E)   Term of license. Approval of a license shall be for a period of one
year subject to annual renewal by the Village Council upon continued compliance
with the regulations of this subchapter. Approval of a license shall be with
the understanding that any necessary remodeling or new construction for the use
of the license shall be commenced within six months of the action of the
Village Council or the State Liquor Control Commission approving such license,
whichever last occurs. Any unusual delay in the completion of such remodeling
or construction may subject the license to revocation.
   (F)   Reservation of authority. No such applicant for a liquor license has
the right to the issuance of such license to him, her, or it, and the Village
Council reserves the right to exercise reasonable discretion to determine who,
if anyone, shall be entitled to the issuance of such license. Additionally, no
applicant for a liquor license has the right to have such application processed
and the Village Council further reserves the right to take no action with
respect to any application filed with the Village Council. The Village Council
further reserves the right to maintain a list of all applicants and to review
the same when, in its discretion, it determines that the issuance of an
additional liquor license is in the best interests of the village at large and
for the needs and convenience of its citizens.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 PUBLIC HEARING; APPROVAL.
   The Village Council shall set a date for a public hearing at which time
comments can be received from the general public in regard to the application
and at which time the applicant or its agents can be questioned by the Council.
After passing a resolution setting a public hearing, the Village Clerk shall
cause notice to be published in a local newspaper in general circulation in the
village at least ten business days prior to the hearing. Approval of the
application shall be by a majority of the Council.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 112.04 REFUSAL TO APPROVE.
   The Village Council’s determination to approve or refuse to approve shall be
based upon satisfactory compliance of the restrictions set forth in §
112.02(D). If the Village Council refuses to approve the application, the
applicant shall be advised in writing and shall be advised as to the basis for
the refusal.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 112.05 LENGTH OF APPROVAL.
   Approval of the applicant as a licensee of the State Liquor Control
Commission shall be continuing until a transfer to a subsequent applicant or
until action is taken by the Village Council as set forth hereafter to object
to the annual renewal required by the State Liquor Control Commission or until
request by the Village Council to the State Liquor Control Commission that the
license be revoked.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 112.06 STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FOR OBJECTION TO RENEWAL OF REQUEST TO STATE
LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION OR REQUEST FOR REVOCATION.
   The Village Council may object to the annual renewal of the license by the
State Liquor Control Commission or may request that the license be revoked upon
a determination based on a preponderance of the evidence presented at the
public hearing described hereafter, that any of the following exists:
   (A)   Violation of any law of the state or United States, or violation of
any ordinance of the village;
   (B)   Maintaining of a nuisance upon the premises including, but not limited
to, any of the following:
      (1)   A pattern of patron conduct in the neighborhood of the licensed
establishment which is in violation of the law and/or disturbs the peace,
order, and tranquility of the neighborhood; and/or
      (2)   Entertainment which disturbs the peace, order, and tranquility of
the neighborhood.
   (C)   Making a false or fraudulent statement or answer in the application
described in §
112.02(B);
   (D)   Nonpayment of real property taxes and/or personal property taxes as
same come due; and/or
   (E)   Violation of any of the restrictions on licenses set forth in §
112.02(D).
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 112.07 PUBLIC HEARING; REFUSAL TO RENEW OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon objection to the annual renewal of a license by the State Liquor
Control Commission or a request for revocation of a license by the Village
Council, as referenced in §
112.06, a public hearing shall be conducted by the Village Council as a whole
at a regular or special meeting.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall serve the license holder by first-class mail,
mailed not less than ten days prior to the public hearing, which notice shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Notice of proposed action;
      (2)   Date, time, and location of the public hearing;
      (3)   A detailed statement as to the reasons for the proposed action
citing specific standards and guidelines the licensee has not complied with or
has otherwise violated;
      (4)   A statement as to the licensee’s rights at the hearing, including
the opportunity to defend against the allegations by confronting any adverse
witness and by presenting witnesses, evidence, and arguments; and
      (5)   A statement that the licensee has the right to be represented by an
attorney.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 112.08 PROCEDURE AT PUBLIC HEARING; FINDINGS AND DETERMINATION; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   At the public hearing referenced in §
112.07, the supervisor shall act as the presiding official. The village
representative shall present witnesses and evidence in support of the proposed
action; the witnesses called by or on behalf of the village may be cross-
examined by the licensee or the licensee’s attorney. The licensee shall
thereafter present any witnesses, evidence, or argument against the proposed
action; the village representative may thereafter cross-examine the licensee’s
witnesses. Any individual Council member may question witnesses called by
either the licensee or the village. There shall be an opportunity for comments
from the general public.
   (B)   Following the public hearing, the Village Council shall make specific
findings of fact and determinations in regard to the proposed action.
   (C)   If the Village Council passes a resolution to request that the license
not be renewed by the State Liquor Control Commission or to have the license
revoked, a certified copy of the resolution and a certified copy of the
separate statement of findings and determinations shall be delivered to the
licensee and to the State Liquor Control Commission.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 112.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter became effective 20 days after the date of its enactment.
(Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 112.10 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF STATE LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION LICENSE.
VILLAGE OF EAU CLAIRE’S
APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF
MICHIGAN LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION LICENSE
   I.   APPLICATION INFORMATION
   1.   Name of applicant:
______________________________________________________
   2.   Current residential address of applicant:
   __________________________________
                        __________________________________
   3.   Current business address of applicant:
   __________________________________
                        __________________________________
   4.   Date of birth of applicant: ________________________
   5.   Social Security number of applicant: ________________
   6.   Is applicant a business entity (corporation, partnership, limited
liability company)? If so, please identify the type of entity and provide the
following information:
      a.   Name of each corporate shareholder, partner or member:
         _______________________________________________________________
      b.   Address of each shareholder, partner or member:
________________________
         _______________________________________________________________
      c.   Nature and extent of investment of each shareholder, partner or
member:
         _______________________________________________________________
      d.   Name and address of each officer, director and shareholder if the
applicant is a corporation:
         _______________________________________________________________
         _______________________________________________________________
 
   II.   LOCATION INFORMATION
   1.   Address of proposed location:
____________________________________________
   2.   Description of the premises or place of business which is to be
operated under the license:
      _____________________________________________________________________
      _____________________________________________________________________
   3.   Has the applicant, or any person associated with the applicant made
application for a similar or other license on premises other than premises
described in this application?
      _____________________________________________________________________
      If so, please state the date of each such application and please state
the location of the premises for each such application:
__________________________
      _____________________________________________________________________
   III.   CRIMINAL HISTORY
   1.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a felony?
____________________________
      If so, please state the date of each conviction, court of each
conviction, and crime related to each conviction:
______________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________
   2.   Has any person affiliated with the applicant been convicted of a
felony?___________
      If so, please state the date of each conviction, court of each
conviction, and the charge related to each conviction:
_______________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________
   IV.   AFFIRMATION
I hereby swear and affirm that applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the State of Michigan, the United States of America or any ordinances of the
Village of Eau Claire in the conduct of applicant’s business. I hereby swear
and affirm that the information contained in this application is true and
accurate.
   Dated: __________________         ______________________________
                     Applicant signature
STATE OF MICHIGAN   )
            )ss:
COUNTY OF BERRIEN   )
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this _____ day of ________,
20___, by ___________________________.
                                 ____________________________________
                                 _______________________ , Notary Public
                                  _____________________ County, Michigan
                                 My Commission Expires: ________________
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DEEMED PART OF THIS APPLICATION:
Please be advised that in accordance with the Ordinances of the Village of Eau
Claire, this Application must be accompanied by building and plat plans showing
the entire structure and premises; and in particular the specific areas where
the license is to be utilized. The plans shall demonstrate adequate off-street
parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities and, where appropriate, adequate
plans for screening and noise control. The premises at which the license is to
be located shall be inspected by the appropriate Village of Eau Claire
Officials prior the public hearing. The premises shall comply with all
Ordinances of the Village of Eau Claire.
(Ord. 2006-1A, passed 3-20-2006)
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Title
   
113.02   Purpose and intent
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   Business use requirements
   
113.05   Prohibited activities related to nudity
   
113.06   Regulations specifically applicable to adult physical culture
businesses
   
113.07   Licensing requirements
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Eau Claire Sexually
Oriented Business Ordinance” and may be referred to herein as “this chapter” or
“chapter”.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 113.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of these provisions is to regulate sexually
oriented businesses and related activities to promote the health, safety, and
welfare of patrons and employees of such businesses, and to promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the village.
   (B)   In the development and execution of this chapter, it is recognized
that there are some uses which, because of their very nature, have serious
objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when several of them
are concentrated under certain circumstances or when one or more of them is
located in proximity to a residential zone, thereby having a deleterious effect
upon the adjacent areas. These controls are for the purpose of preventing a
concentration of these uses within any one area, or to prevent deterioration or
blighting of a surrounding residential neighborhood.
   (C)   There is convincing documented evidence, consulted by the village, of
the deleterious effect that sexually oriented businesses have on both existing
businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas to which they are
adjacent.
   (D)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place
the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators of the
sexually oriented businesses. Further, a licensing procedure will place an
incentive on the operators to see that the sexually oriented business is run in
a manner consistent with the health, safety, and welfare of its patrons and
employees, as well as the citizens of the village. It is appropriate to require
reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual operator of the sexually
oriented business, fully in possession and control of the premises and
activities occurring therein.
   (E)   These provisions are not intended, nor shall they have the effect of,
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials including, but not limited to, sexually oriented materials that are
protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or by
Article I, § 5 of the State Constitution.
   (F)   Additionally, it is not the intent of the provisions of this chapter,
nor shall it have the effect of, restricting or denying access by adults to
sexually oriented materials that are protected by said federal and state
constitutions.
   (G)   Further, it is not the intent of these provisions, nor shall they have
the effect of, denying access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their target market.
   (H)   These regulations shall not be interpreted as intending to legitimize
any activities that are prohibited by federal or state law, or by any other
ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment that, as one of its business purposes or
services, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration, any one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed and/or
electronic or digital matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual representations or media
which depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other business purposes or
services that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of the material
identified in divisions (1)(a) or (1)(b) above, and still be categorized as an
ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE. The sale or rental
of such material shall be deemed to constitute a business purpose or service of
an establishment if: such materials occupy 20% or more of the floor area of
visible inventory within the establishment; or the business derives a
significant or substantial portion of its revenues from such materials.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, lounge, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, electronic,
digital, other photographic reproductions, or visual media that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment which, for any form
of consideration, regularly and primarily shows films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions or visual media that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT PHYSICAL CULTURE BUSINESS. Any commercial establishment, club, or
business, by whatever name designated, which regularly offers or advertises or
is equipped or arranged to provide massages, body rubs, alcohol rubs, physical
stimulation, baths, or other similar treatment by any person. An ADULT PHYSICAL
CULTURE BUSINESS may include, but is not limited to, establishments commonly
known as massage parlors, health spas, sauna baths, Turkish bathhouses, and
steam baths. The following uses shall not be included within the definition of
an ADULT PHYSICAL CULTURE BUSINESS:
      (1)   Businesses which routinely provide such services by a licensed
physician, a licensed chiropractor, a licensed osteopath, a licensed physical
therapist, a licensed practical nurse practitioner, a professional massage
therapist, or any other similarly licensed medical professional;
      (2)   Fitness and recreation centers;
      (3)   Electrolysis treatment by a licensed operator of electrolysis
equipment;
      (4)   Continuing instruction in martial or performing arts, or in
organized athletic activities;
      (5)   Hospitals, nursing homes, medical clinics, or medical offices;
      (6)   Barbershops or beauty parlors and salons which offer massages to
the scalp, the face, the neck, or the shoulders only; and
      (7)   Adult photography studios whose principal business does not include
the taking of photographs of specified anatomical areas.
   PROFESSIONAL MASSAGE THERAPIST. An individual graduated from a school of
massage licensed by the state’s Post Secondary Proprietary School Unit, having
completed a minimum of 500 hours of formal training and a member of the
American Massage Therapy Association.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, video store, or novelty
store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, or a commercial enterprise
that regularly features the sale, rental, or exhibition for any form of
consideration, of books, films, videos, DVDs, magazines, or other visual
representation of live performances which are characterized by an emphasis on
the exposure or display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas. For purposes of this chapter, an adult physical culture business shall
also be considered as a SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, or anus; or female breast immediately below the top of the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, or female breast.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Village Board to
administer the provisions of this chapter.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. Zoning ordinance of Village of Eau Claire, Berrien County,
Michigan, as amended.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 113.04 BUSINESS USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All sexually oriented businesses must be located within a zone
district of the village zoning ordinance in which sexually oriented businesses
are specifically listed as a special land use and comply with all regulations
in the village zoning ordinance applicable to the use.
   (B)   Any sexually oriented business shall not be located within a 1,000-
foot radius of any other such use, measured in a straight line from the nearest
lot line to the nearest lot line.
      (1)   The Village Council may grant a waiver of this requirement. Waivers
of these provisions shall only be granted after the Village Council makes the
following findings:
         (a)   The proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest or
injurious to nearby properties, and that the spirit and intent of this section
will be observed;
         (b)   The proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development
of a blighted or deteriorating area in its immediate surroundings;
         (c)   The establishment of a regulated use, or an additional regulated
use, in the area will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood
conservation; and
         (d)   All applicable state laws and local ordinances will be observed.
      (2)   As part of the granting of any waiver, the Village Council may
impose any conditions or limitations upon the establishment, location,
construction, maintenance, or operation of the sexually oriented business as
may, in its judgment, be necessary for the protection of the public interest.
Any evidence or guarantee may be required as proof that the conditions
stipulated in connection therewith will be fulfilled.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the requirement of any other village ordinance,
parking spaces shall be provided at the ratio of one space per person permitted
by the maximum occupancy load established by local, county, state, fire,
health, or building codes.
   (D)   No sexually oriented business shall be open for business prior to 10:
00 a.m. nor after 11:00 p.m. However, employees or other agents or contractors
of the business are permitted to be on the premises at other hours for
legitimate business purposes such as maintenance, clean-up, preparation, record
keeping, and similar purposes.
   (E)   No alcohol shall be served at any sexually oriented business.
   (F)   No sexually oriented business shall permit any person under the age of
18 to be on the premises of the business either as an employee or customer.
Signs shall be conspicuously posted on both the exterior and interior walls of
the entrances, in a location which is clearly visible to those entering or
exiting the business, and using lettering which is at least two inches in
height, that states: “Persons under the age of 18 years are not permitted to
enter the premises.”
   (G)   All parking areas and the building shall be well lighted to ensure the
safety and security of patrons. These areas shall remain lighted for one hour
after closing each night.
   (H)   (1)   No person shall operate or maintain, or cause to be operated or
maintained, a sexually oriented business within 500 feet of:
         (a)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or other building used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
         (b)   A public or private educational facility including, but not
limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, public or private schools, vocational schools, secondary
schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities. For purposes of this section, the term SCHOOL shall include the
school grounds, but does not include facilities used primarily for another
purpose and only incidentally as a school;
         (c)   Family day care homes or group day care homes;
         (d)   An entertainment use which has as its principal use children or
family entertainment;
         (e)   Any other sexually oriented business;
         (f)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trail, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis court, wilderness area, or other similar public land within the
village which is under the control, operation, or management of the village or
county; and
         (g)   The zoning district boundary of a residential district as
defined in this chapter.
      (2)   For purposes of the uses listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)
(1)(g) above, the distance limitations shall be measured in a straight line
without regard to intervening structures or objects from the lot line occupied
by the sexually oriented business to the nearest point of the lot line occupied
by any of the uses listed in divisions (H)(1)(a) through (H)(1)(g) above.
   (I)   No advertisement, display of product, or entertainment on the
premises, signs, or other exhibits which depict, describe, or relate to
specified sexual activities and/or specified anatomical areas shall be
displayed in window areas or any other area where they can be viewed by
pedestrians and motorists on any street, sidewalk, or other public place.
   (J)   Any sign or signs proposed for sexually oriented business must comply
with the requirements of this chapter and the village zoning ordinance, and
shall not include photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial
representations of any type, nor include any animated illumination or flashing
illumination, that depict or appear to depict any specified sexual activities
and/or specified anatomical areas.
   (K)   No building, premises, structure, or other facility that contains any
sexually oriented business shall contain any other kind of sexually oriented
business.
   (L)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from the sales counter to every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. The view required in this division (L) must be by direct line of
sight from the manager’s station and/or sales counter.
   (M)   Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.
   (N)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
No openings of any kind are permitted between viewing rooms or booths.
   (O)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level. Required illumination shall be maintained at all times that any
patron is present in the premises.
   (P)   The proposed site shall front upon and have direct access to a major
or minor arterial road, as classified in the Village Master Plan. All ingress
and egress shall be from that arterial road.
   (Q)   (1)   Sexually oriented businesses shall not be enlarged, increased,
or expanded in any manner without first applying for and receiving the approval
of the Village Council as set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Further, if a use subject to the control of this section is
discontinued or abandoned for a period of more than 30 days, the use may not be
reestablished without applying for and receiving the approval of the Village
Council as set forth in this chapter.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, enlarging, increasing, or expanding a
sexually oriented business shall mean an increase in floor areas occupied by
the establishment or business by more than 25% as the floor areas exist on the
date of the original license issuance.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-18-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES RELATED TO NUDITY.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person who knowingly and
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appears in a state of nudity or
engages in specified sexual activities.
   (B)   It shall also be a violation of this chapter for a person who
knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appears in a
seminude condition unless the person is an employee who, while seminude, shall
be at least six feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least two
feet from the floor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an employee, while
seminude in a sexually oriented business, to receive directly any pay or
gratuity from any patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or
give any gratuity directly to any employee, or another employee while that
employee is seminude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an employee, while
seminude, to knowingly and intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a
customer.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-18-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 REGULATIONS SPECIFICALLY APPLICABLE TO ADULT PHYSICAL CULTURE
BUSINESSES.
   The requirements of this section apply to every adult physical culture
business and to every massage technician in the village.
   (A)   No person shall give, or assist in the giving of, any massage to any
person under the age of 18 years, unless the parent or guardian of such minor
person has consented thereto in writing.
   (B)   Each operator shall erect and maintain, after obtaining the necessary
permits, a recognizable and readable sign that will be posted adjacent to the
main entrance identifying the premises as an adult physical culture business.
The signs may not use any strobe lights or other flashing lights to illuminate
the front of the business. Each operator shall have posted, in a conspicuous
location upon the premises where the massage operation is to be conducted, the
operator’s permit as issued by the village.
   (C)   Each operator shall provide, in each room where massages are given,
sufficient lighting and ventilation as required by the adopted Building Code of
the village.
   (D)   Every adult physical culture business shall, from time to time and at
least once a year, be inspected and approved by the County Health Department
for the purpose of determining that the health provisions of the laws of the
state and ordinances of the village are met.
   (E)   A minimum of one tub or shower, and one toilet and washbasin, shall be
provided for the patrons in every adult physical culture business. If male and
female patrons are to be served simultaneously, and if steam rooms and saunas
are provided, separate steam rooms or saunas shall be provided for male and
female patrons. Hot and cold running water under pressure shall be provided to
all washbasins, bathtubs, showers, and similar equipment. Each washbasin shall
be provided with soap or detergent and sanitary towels placed in permanently
installed dispensers. No common use of towels or linens shall be permitted and
reuse is prohibited unless they have been first laundered.
   (F)   In addition to the washbasin provided for patrons, a minimum of one
separate washbasin shall be provided in each adult physical culture business,
which basin shall provide soap or detergent and hot running water at all times
and shall be located within or as practical to the area devoted to the
performing of massage services.
   (G)   In addition, there shall be provided at each washbasin sanitary towels
placed in permanently installed dispensers. If the washbasin for patrons is not
in the toilet room but it is adjacent thereto, this washbasin shall meet the
separate washbasin requirement if it is reasonably close to the area devoted to
the performing of massages.
   (H)   A trash receptacle shall be provided in each toilet room.
   (I)   No person shall operate an adult physical culture business, or
administer a massage as herein defined in any adult physical culture business,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (J)   No person licensed to do business as herein provided shall operate
under any name or conduct business under any designation not specified in his
or her permit.
   (K)   No person shall enter, be, or remain in any part of an adult physical
culture business licensed under this chapter while in possession of, consuming,
using, or under the influence of any alcoholic beverage or drug. The owner,
operator, and manager shall be responsible for ensuring that no such person
shall enter or remain upon the licensed premises.
   (L)   No building or part thereof used as an adult physical culture business
shall be equipped with any electronic, mechanical, or artificial device used,
or capable of being used, for recording or videotaping, for monitoring the
activities, conversation, or other sounds in the treatment room or room used by
the business customers; nor shall any such equipment be used to record,
videotape, or monitor a person receiving a massage without that person’s
written consent.
   (M)   No adult physical culture business issued a permit under this chapter
shall send massage technicians off the premises for the purposes of
administering a massage, nor shall the adult physical culture business or any
part thereof be used by any employee, operator, manager, or owner to receive or
accept such requests for off-premises massages, except as permitted by this
chapter.
   (N)   Every massage technician working in an adult physical culture business
shall display his or her license as required by this chapter in a conspicuous
place within the adult physical culture business so that the same may be
readily seen by persons entering the premises.
   (O)   No massage technician shall, while performing any massage or
associated task, expose his or her genitals, buttocks, or, in the case of a
female, her breast(s) or make intentional contact or occasional and repetitive
contact with the genitals or anus of another person.
   (P)   All massage technicians and all other persons working in adult
physical culture business shall wear clean outer garments. These garments must
be of a fully opaque material and provide complete covering of the genitals,
genital area, buttocks, and female breasts of such employees, massage
technicians, and attendants.
   (Q)   Each establishment shall provide to all patrons clean, sanitary, and
opaque coverings capable of covering the patron’s specified anatomical areas,
including the genital area and buttocks and female breasts. No common use of
such coverings shall be permitted and reuse is prohibited unless coverings are
adequately cleaned between uses.
   (R)   No massage technician, while performing any massage or associated
task, shall be present in any room with another person unless that person’s
genitals, genital area, buttocks, and female breasts are fully covered.
   (S)   Standard or portable massage tables with durable, washable plastic or
other waterproof material as covering shall be used for massage. Foam pads more
than four inches thick or with a width of more than four feet may not be used.
Beds, mattresses, and waterbeds may not be used in the administration of a
massage.
   (T)   (1)   Every person operating an adult physical culture business and
each person doing business as a massage technician shall keep a record of the
dates and hour of each treatment or service, name, address, and birth date of
the patron to be verified by legal identification, name of technician
administering such service, and description of the treatment or service
rendered.
      (2)   These records shall be open to inspection by the village and/or
county charged with the responsibility of preventing the spread of communicable
and contagious diseases and to officials charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The information furnished or secured as a result of any of these
records shall be used only to ensure and enforce compliance with this chapter
and other applicable laws and shall otherwise remain confidential. Officials
charged with enforcement of this chapter shall periodically inspect these
records to ensure compliance with this section.
      (4)   The records required by this division (T) shall be maintained for a
period of not less than one year.
   (U)   No person holding an off-premises massage technician permit shall
conduct massage, whether or not for compensation, at any hotel, motel, or other
commercial establishment except in the office of the customer. For purposes of
this division (U), a hotel room shall not be considered an office.
   (V)   All massage establishments and employees thereof shall comply with the
licensing requirements and provisions of §
113.07.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-18-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person operating a sexually oriented business shall be required to
obtain a valid sexually oriented business license issued by the village
pursuant to this chapter. This requirement is in addition to the requirement of
possessing a valid business license from the village, county, and/or state as
required. For purposes of licensing of the establishment and its employees, the
requirements of this section apply to any adult physical culture business in
the same manner as a sexually oriented business.
   (B)   Employees of a sexually oriented business shall be required to obtain
a license from the village as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to
this chapter prior to beginning employment.
   (C)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
village. All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually
oriented business employee license shall file with the Zoning Administrator a
notarized, completed application made on a form prescribed and provided by the
Village Clerk. An application shall be considered complete if it includes the
following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full true name and any other names used in the
preceding five years;
      (2)   The current business address;
      (3)   Either a set of fingerprints suitable for conducting necessary
background checks pursuant to this chapter, or the applicant’s Social Security
number, to be used for the same purpose;
      (4)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name, business location, legal description, business mailing address, and phone
number of the proposed sexually oriented business;
      (5)   Written proof of age in the form of either a copy of a birth
certificate and current photo, a current driver’s license with picture, or
other picture identification document issued by a governmental agency;
      (6)   If applicable, the issuing jurisdiction and the effective dates of
any license or permit held by the applicant relating to a sexually oriented
business, and whether any such license or permit has been denied, revoked, or
suspended, and if so, the reason or reasons therefor;
      (7)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to receive
service of process; and
      (8)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
   (E)   If the person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he or she shall sign the application for a license as applicant, if
the person that wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual (such as a corporation), each officer, director, general partner,
shareholder, and/or other person who will participate directly in decisions
relating to management of the business shall sign the application for a license
as the applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under this chapter, and each
applicant shall be considered as a licensee if a license is granted.
   (F)   Any change in circumstance related to the information provided
pursuant to divisions (D)(1) through (D)(8) above, which would render the
information originally submitted false or incomplete, shall be forwarded, in
writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Zoning
Administrator within ten working days of the change of circumstances.
   (G)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with the
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the Zoning
Administrator on a confidential basis, and may be disclosed only to other
governmental agencies in connection with a law enforcement or public safety
function, or as may otherwise be required by law or a court order.
   (H)   (1)   Upon the filing of a completed application for a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee license, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue a temporary license to the applicant, which
shall expire upon the final decision of the Zoning Administrator to deny or
grant the license.
      (2)   Within 30 days after the receipt of a completed application, the
Zoning Administrator shall either issue a license or issue a written notice of
intent to deny a license to the applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall not
approve the license if one or more of the following is found to be true:
         (a)   An applicant is less than 18 years of age;
         (b)   An applicant is delinquent in the payment to the village of
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against, or imposed upon, the
applicant in relation to a sexually oriented business;
         (c)   An applicant has failed to provide information, as required by
division (D) above, for issuance of the license;
         (d)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
activity. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
under this division (H)(2)(d). For the purpose of this division (H)(2)(d),
CONVICTION means a conviction or a guilty plea, and includes a conviction of
any business entity for which the applicant had, at the time of the offense
leading to the conviction for a specified criminal activity, a management
responsibility or a controlling interest;
         (e)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not
been paid;
         (f)   An applicant has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form; and/or
         (g)   The proposed sexually oriented business is located in a zoning
district other than a district in which sexually oriented businesses are
allowed to operate under the zoning ordinance, or has not received the required
approval in accordance with this chapter.
   (I)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
that applicant, the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. A sexually
oriented business employee license shall contain a photograph of the licensee.
      (1)   The sexually oriented business license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time.
      (2)   A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the employee’s
license on his or her person or on the premises where the licensee is then
working or performing, and shall produce such license for inspection upon
request by a Zoning Administrator, law enforcement officer, or other authorized
village official.
   (J)   For the purpose of ensuring compliance with this chapter, an
applicant, operator, or licensee shall permit Zoning Administrators and any
other federal, state, county, or village agency in the performance of any
function connected with the enforcement of this chapter, normally and regularly
conducted by such agencies, to inspect, at any time the business is occupied or
open for business, those portions of the premises of a sexually oriented
business which patrons or customers are permitted to occupy.
   (K)   (1)   Each sexually oriented business license, including licenses for
employees, shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be renewed
only by making application as provided in this chapter. An application for
renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date, and when
made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the
license will not be affected.
      (2)   When the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall
not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
the denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license
has been corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date that the denial became final.
   (L)   (1)   The village shall issue a written intent to suspend a license
for a period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licence or an
employee of a licensee has:
         (a)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
chapter or applicable provision of the village zoning ordinance, or any other
applicable village ordinances; or
         (b)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
      (2)   An applicant that is ineligible for a license due to a suspension
may qualify for a sexually oriented business license only when the time period
required as a result of the suspension has elapsed.
   (M)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a written statement of
intent to revoke a sexually oriented business license if a cause of suspension
in division (L) above occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months. The Zoning Administrator shall issue a written statement
of intent to revoke a sexually oriented business license if he or she
determines any one of the following:
         (a)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
         (b)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
         (d)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business
during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended; and/or
         (e)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any specified sexual activities
to occur in or on the licensed premises.
      (2)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the revocation of the license.
      (3)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in division
(N) below, the Zoning Administrator revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for one year from the date revocation becomes effective,
provided that, if the conditions of this section are met, a provisional license
will be granted. If, subsequent to revocation, the Zoning Administrator finds
that the basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant
shall be granted a license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the
revocation became effective.
   (N)   (1)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that facts exist for
denial, suspension, or revocation of a license under this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant or licensee (respondent) in writing of
the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, including the grounds
therefor, by personal delivery, or by certified mail.
      (2)   The notification shall be directed to the most current business
address on file with the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Within five working days of receipt of such notice, the respondent
may provide to the Village Supervisor, in writing, a response that shall
include a statement of reasons why the license or permit should not be denied,
suspended, or revoked. Within three days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response, the Village Supervisor shall notify respondent in writing of the
hearing date on respondent’s denial, suspension, or revocation proceeding.
      (4)   Within ten working days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response, the Village Board shall conduct a hearing at which respondent shall
have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf.
      (5)   The Village Board shall issue a written opinion and decision within
five business days of the hearing. If a response is not received by the Village
Council in the time stated or, if after the hearing, the Village Council finds
that grounds as specified in this chapter exist for denial, suspension, or
revocation, then such denial, suspension, or revocation shall become final five
days after the Village Supervisor sends, by certified mail, written notice that
the license has been denied, suspended, or revoked.
      (6)   Such notice shall include a statement advising the applicant or
licensee of the right to appeal such decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (7)   If the Village Council finds that no grounds exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license, then, within five days after the
hearing, the Village Supervisor shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or
revoke the license, and shall so notify the respondent in writing by certified
mail of such action and shall contemporaneously issue the license.
      (8)   When a decision to deny, suspend, or revoke a license becomes
final, the applicant or licensee (aggrieved party) whose application for a
license has been denied, or whose license has been suspended or revoked, shall
have the right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (9)   Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain,
or otherwise enjoin the village’s enforcement of the denial, suspension, or
revocation, the Zoning Administrator shall immediately issue the aggrieved
party a provisional license. The provisional license shall allow the aggrieved
party to continue operation of the sexually oriented business or to continue
employment as a sexually oriented business employee, as the case may be, and
will expire upon the court’s entry of a judgment or order on the aggrieved
party’s action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or otherwise enjoin the
village’s enforcement.
   (O)   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall
a licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-18-2006) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fine shall be in accordance with the following:
      (1)   First violation: $1,500;
      (2)   Second violation within a three-year period from the date of the
first violation: $2,000;
      (3)   Third violation within a three-year period from the date of the
first violation: $3,000; and
      (4)   Fourth and any subsequent violations within a three-year period
from the date of the previous violation: $5,000.
   (B)   In addition to the above fines, the guilty party is subject to all
other costs, damages, expenses, and other penalties as provided by law.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, offenses committed on
subsequent days within a period of one week following the issuance of a
citation for a first offense shall all be considered separate first offenses.
Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (D)   The rights and remedies provided herein are cumulative, and in
addition to other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4-18-2006)
CHAPTER 114: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Conflict
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Permit required
   
114.05   Issuance of permit
   
114.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
114.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
114.08   Route maps
   
114.09   Repair of damage
   
114.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
114.11   Modification of existing fees
   
114.12   Savings clause
   
114.13   Use of funds
   
114.14   Annual report
   
114.15   Cable television operators
   
114.16   Existing rights
   
114.17   Compliance
   
114.18   Reservation of police powers
   
114.19   Authorized village officials
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120,
(“Act”) and other applicable law, and to ensure that the village qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120, or other applicable law.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight
Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120, as amended
from time to time.
   AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumer
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term “Commission”
in the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120.
   PERMIT. A nonexclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
484.3101 to 484.3120, and this chapter to a telecommunications provider to use
the public rights-of-way in the village for its telecommunications facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, alley, easement, or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a
federal, state, or private right-of-way.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of title III of the
Communications Act of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Those
terms as defined in § 102 of the State Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179
of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include
a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed
commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of the
Communications Act of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120, and this chapter only, a
PROVIDER also includes all of the following:
      (1)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101
to 484.3120, a person who owns telecommunication facilities located within a
public right-of-way; and
      (3)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Eau Claire.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Eau Claire or its
designee. This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the Village Council.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120, a telecommunications provider using or
seeking to use public rights-of-way in the village for its telecommunications
facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act.
A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
Village Clerk and one copy with the Village Attorney. Upon receipt, the Village
Clerk shall make copies of the application and distribute a copy to [identify
additional recipients]. Applications shall be complete and include all
information required by the Act including, without limitation, a route map
showing the location of the provider’s existing and proposed facilities in
accordance with § 6(5) of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 through 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications
provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time nonrefundable application fee in
the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The Village Clerk may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the Village Council deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the Village Council. If the village and the applicant cannot
agree on the requirement of additional information requested by the village,
the village or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the
Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the village under § 251 of the
State Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the village to
telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the State
Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of
this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
484.3101 to 484.3120, a telecommunications provider with facilities located in
a public right-of-way in the village as of such date, that has not previously
obtained authorization or a permit under § 251 of the State Telecommunications
Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251, shall submit to the
village an application for a permit in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, a telecommunications provider
submitting an application under this division (G) is not required to pay the
$500 application fee required under division (D) above. A provider under this
division (G) shall be given up to an additional 180 days to submit the permit
application if allowed by the Authority, as provided in § 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Village Council. Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act, the Village Clerk shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under §
114.04(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the village. Pursuant to §
6(6) of the Act, the Village Clerk shall notify the MPSC when the village has
granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the date on which
the application was filed and the date on which permit was granted or denied.
The Village Clerk shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the Village
Clerk shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2), and 15
of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the Village Clerk may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the Village Clerk may require that a bond be
posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.06 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the village without first
obtaining a construction or engineering permit as required under the village
zoning ordinance, as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way.
No fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120, or under this
chapter does not give a telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or
utility poles.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the village, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
village. The route maps should be in [paper or electronic] format unless and
until the MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
village, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to
the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or within the
public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the nonrefundable application fee paid to the village set
forth in §
114.04(D) above, a telecommunications provider with telecommunications
facilities in the village’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual
maintenance fee to the Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the village
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120, relating to access and usage of
the public rights-of-way, to an amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and
charges required under the Act, which shall be paid to the Authority.
   (B)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, the village
also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers with
telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the village’s
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act.
   (C)   The village shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act.
   (D)   To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers in
excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the village’s policy and intent and, upon application by a provider or
discovery by the village, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
114.11 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.13 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the village from the
Authority shall be used by the village solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the
village from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or
the Local Street Fund maintained by the village under Public Act 51 of 1951.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.14 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the Village Clerk shall file an annual
report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.15 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the village shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.16 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the village may have under a permit issued by
the village or under a contract between the village and a telecommunications
provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.17 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The village hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting
this chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120, and the provisions hereof should be construed
in such a manner as to achieve that purpose.
   (B)   The village shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246, as provided in
§
114.04(C);
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
114.04(F);
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
114.04(G);
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the village, in
accordance with §
114.05(A);
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the village has granted or denied a permit,
in accordance with §
114.05(A);
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
114.05(A);
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
114.05(B);
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
114.05(C);
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
114.05(D);
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
114.06;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the
village’s right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
114.11;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
114.14; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
114.15.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the village’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the village’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.19 AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Village Clerk or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized village official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Chapter Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by
this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to §
10.99. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies
available to the village in the event of a violation by a person of this
chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
Pool Halls; Bowling Alleys; Shooting Galleries
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   License fee
   
115.03   Minors
   
115.04   Curtains, screens, blinds, and the like
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Chapter 112
   Zoning adopted by reference, see §
150.02
POOL HALLS; BOWLING ALLEYS; SHOOTING GALLERIES
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company, or association to
have or keep for gain or profit within the limits of the village any billiard
table, pool table, bowling alley, or shooting gallery without first having
obtained a license therefor, and complying in all respects with the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person, firm, company, or association desiring to engage in any
business herein before numbered may secure the license above provided by making
application to the Village Council therefor.
(Ord. 7A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   All applications for license under this subchapter shall be
accompanied by the fee therefor as set forth by the Village Council, which fee
shall be returned in case the Village Council shall not approve of said
application.
   (B)   If the Council shall approve said application, it may order the
Village Clerk to issue said license, which license shall be issued and signed
by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 7A-2001, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 115.03 MINORS.
   No minor may be in attendance of a billiard hall, pool room, bowling alley,
or shooting gallery, or other business mentioned in §
115.01, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(Ord. 7A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 CURTAINS, SCREENS, BLINDS, AND THE LIKE.
   At no time shall there be in the room, place, or building in which the said
occupation or business shall be conducted any curtain, screen, partition,
blinds, or other device which shall be calculated to or shall so operate as to
interfere wholly or partly with a clear, clean unobstructed view of the entire
interior of said room, place, or building from the sidewalk, street, or ground
immediately in front thereof. No license shall be granted until the provisions
of this section shall first be complied with.
(Ord. 7A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In case of the violation of any of the terms of §§
115.01 through
115.04, either by the proprietor or one employed by or working under him or
her, in addition to all other penalties herein provided for, the license
granted to said proprietor shall be forfeited. Such forfeiture shall be
declared by the Village Council.
(Ord. 7A-2001, passed 10-15-2001)
CHAPTER 116: MEDICAL MARIHUANA
Section
   
116.01   Title
   
116.02   Legislative intent
   
116.03   Definitions, interpretation and conflicts
   
116.04   Operation without license prohibited
   
116.05   License required, number of licenses available
   
116.06   License application submission
   
116.07   License application evaluation
   
116.08   License renewal application
   
116.09   Licenses generally
   
116.10   Minimum operational standards of a medical marihuana provisioning
center
   
116.11   Minimum operational standards of a medical marihuana grower facility
   
116.12   Minimum operational standards of a medical marihuana safety compliance
facility
   
116.13   Minimum operational standards of a medical marihuana processor
facility and a medical marihuana secure transporter
   
116.14   Location of medical marihuana provisioning centers
   
116.15   Location of medical marihuana safety compliance facilities, medical
marihuana processor facilities, medical marihuana grower facilities, and
medical marihuana secure transporters
   
116.16   License revocation; bases for revocation; appeal of license denial
   
116.17   Penalties; temporary suspension of a license
§ 116.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Amended and Restated
Medical Merihuana Facilities Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.02 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to exercise the police, regulatory, and
land use powers of the village by licensing and regulating medical marihuana
provisioning centers, medical marihuana grower facilities, medical marihuana
safety compliance facilities, medical marihuana secure transporters, and
medical marihuana processor facilities to the extent permissible under State of
Michigan and federal laws and regulations and to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the village; and as such this chapter
constitutes a public purpose.
   (B)   The village finds that the activities described in this chapter are
significantly connected to the public health, safety, security and welfare of
its citizens and it is therefore necessary to regulate and enforce safety,
security, fire, police, health and sanitation practices related to such
activities and also to provide a method to defray administrative costs incurred
by such regulation and enforcement.
   (C)   It is not the intent of this chapter to diminish, abrogate, or
restrict the protections for medical use of marihuana found in the Michigan
Medical Marihuana Act as defined herein.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.03 DEFINITIONS, INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Any term defined by the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A §
333.26421 et seq., as amended (“MMMA”), the Medical Marihuana Facilities
Licensing Act, M.C.L.A. § 333.2701, et seq. (“MMFLA”), shall have the
definition given in those acts, as amended, and the Marihuana Tracking Act
(“MTA”), M.C.L.A. § 333.27901, et seq, if the definition of a word or phrase
set forth in this chapter conflicts with the definition in the MMMA or MMFLA,
or if a term is not defined but is defined in the MMMA or MMFLA, then the
definition in the MMMA, MMFLA, or MTA shall apply.
   (B)   Any term defined by 21 U.S.C. § 860(e) referenced in this chapter
shall have the definition given by 21 U.S.C. § 860(e).
   (C)   This chapter shall not limit an individual’s or entity’s rights under
the MMMA, MTA, and the MMFLA supersede this chapter where there is a conflict
between them.
   (D)   All activities related to medical marihuana, including those related
to a medical marihuana provisioning center, a medical marihuana grower
facility, a medical marihuana secure transporter, a medical marihuana processor
or a medical marihuana safety compliance facility shall be in compliance with
the rules of the (Michigan) Medical Marihuana Licensing Board, the Michigan
Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, or any successor agency, the
rules and regulations of the village, the MMMA, and the MMFLA.
   (E)   Any use which purports to have engaged in the cultivation or
processing of medical marihuana into a usable form, or the distribution of
medical marihuana, or the testing of medical marihuana either prior to or after
enactment of this chapter without obtaining the required licensing set forth in
this chapter, shall be deemed not a legally established use and therefore not
entitled to legal nonconforming status under the provisions of this chapter or
state law. The village finds and determines that it has not heretofore
authorized or licensed the existence of any medical marihuana establishment, as
defined herein, in the village.
   (F)   The following words and phrases shall have the following definitions
when used in this chapter:
      APPLICATION. An application for a license pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth in §§
116.06 and
116.07.
      APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE RENEWAL. An application for a license renewal
pursuant to the terms and conditions of §
116.08.
      BUILDING. An independent, enclosed structure having a roof supported by
columns or walls, intended and/or used for shelter or enclosure of persons or
chattels. When any portion of a structure is completely separated from every
other part by dividing walls from the ground up, and without openings, each
portion of such structure shall be deemed a separate structure, regardless of
whether the portions of such structure share common pipes, ducts, boilers,
tanks, furnaces, or other such systems. This definition refers only to
permanent structures, and does not include tents, sheds, greenhouses and
private garages on residential property, stables, or other accessory
structures. A BUILDING does not include such structures with interior areas not
normally accessible for human use, such as gasholders, tanks, smoke stacks,
grain elevators, coalbunkers, oil-cracking towers or similar structures.
      CHURCH. An entire building set apart primarily for purposes of public
worship which is tax exempt under the laws of this state, and in which
religious services are held, and the entire building structure of which is kept
for that use and not put to any other use inconsistent with that use.
      COUNCIL or VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of Eau Claire, Michigan.
      CULTIVATION or CULTIVATE. All phases of growth of marihuana from seed to
harvest.
      DISQUALIFYING FELONY. A felony that makes an individual ineligible to
serve as a registered primary caregiver under the MMMA or MMFLA.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who is employed by an employer in return for the
payment of direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, under contract, and any
individual who volunteers his or her services to an employer for no monetary
compensation, or any individual who performs work or renders services, for any
period of time, at the direction of an owner, lessee, of other person in charge
of a place.
      LICENSE or MEDICAL MARIHUANA BUSINESS LICENSE. A license issued for the
operation of a medical marihuana establishment pursuant to the terms and
conditions of this chapter and includes a license that has been renewed
pursuant to §
116.08.
      LICENSE APPLICATION. An application submitted for a license pursuant to
the requirements and procedures set forth in §§
116.06 and
116.07.
      LICENSEE. A person issued a license for an establishment pursuant to this
chapter.
      MARIHUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT. As defined in the MMMA and the MMFLA.
      MARIHUANA TRACKING ACT or MTA. Public Act 282 of 2016.
      MEDICAL MARIHUANA. Any marihuana intended for medical use that meets all
requirements for medical marihuana contained in the MMMA and the MMFLA.
      MEDICAL MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT(S) or ESTABLISHMENT. Any facility,
establishment and/or center that is required to be licensed under this chapter,
including: a medical marihuana provisioning center, a medical marihuana grower
facility; a medical marihuana processor facility; a medical marihuana secure
transporter; and a medical marihuana safety compliance facility.
      MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITIES LICENSING ACT or MMFLA. Public Act 281 of
2016, M.C.L.A. § 333.27101, et. seq.
      MEDICAL MARIHUANA GROWER FACILITY. A commercial entity located in the
village that is licensed to operate by the state pursuant to the MMFLA and is
licensed by the village pursuant to this chapter that cultivates, dries, trims
or cures and packages marihuana in accordance with state law.
      MEDICAL MARIHUANA LICENSING BOARD. That certain board established by the
MMFLA.
      MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROVISIONING CENTER. A commercial entity located in the
village that is licensed to operate by the state pursuant to the MMFLA and is
licensed by the village pursuant to this chapter that sells, supplies, or
provides marihuana to registered qualifying patients only as permitted by state
law. Medical marihuana provisioning center, as defined in the MMFLA, includes
any commercial property where marihuana is sold in conformance with state law
and regulation. A noncommercial location used by a primary caregiver to assist
a qualifying patient, as defined in the MMMA, and connected to the caregiver
through the department’s marihuana registration process in accordance with the
MMMA, is not a medical marihuana provisioning center.
      MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, as amended, at M.C.L.A. §
333.26421.
      PARK. An area of land designated by the village as a park on its master
plan or on a Council-approved list of village parks.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, sole proprietorship, limited liability company, joint venture,
estate, trust, or other legal entity.
      PROCESSOR or MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROCESSOR FACILITY. A commercial entity
located in the village that is licensed to operate by the state pursuant to the
MMFLA and is licensed by the village pursuant to this chapter that extracts
resin from the marihuana or creates a marihuana-infused product, to the extent
permitted by state law.
      SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY or MEDICAL MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE
FACILITY. A commercial entity that is licensed to operate by the state pursuant
to the MMFLA and is licensed by the village pursuant to this chapter, that
receives marihuana from a medical marihuana establishment or a registered
qualifying patient or a registered primary caregiver, tests it for contaminants
and for tetrahydrocannabinol and other cannabinoids in accordance with state
law.
      SCHOOL. Includes buildings used for school purposes to provide
instruction to children and youth in grades pre-kindergarten through 12, and
Headstart, when that instruction is provided by a public, private,
denominational, or parochial school.
      SECURE TRANSPORTER or MEDICAL MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A commercial
entity that is licensed to operate by the state pursuant to the MMFLA and is
licensed to operate by the village pursuant to this chapter, that is a
commercial entity located in the village that stores marihuana and transports
marihuana between medical marihuana facilities for a fee and in accordance with
state law.
      STAKEHOLDER. With respect to a trust, the beneficiaries, with respect to
a limited liability company, the managers or members, with respect to a
corporation, whether profit or non-profit, the officers, directors, or
shareholders, and with respect to a partnership or limited liability
partnership, the partners, both general and limited.
      STATE. The state of Michigan.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Eau Claire, Michigan.
   (G)   Any term defined by the MMMA, the MMFLA, or the MTA and not defined in
this chapter, shall have the definition provided in those acts.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.04 OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the operation of a medical
marihuana establishment in the village unless such person has obtained a
license from the village under this chapter to do so for each location and
additionally has a license to operate from the state pursuant to MMFLA. Every
medical marihuana establishment in the village shall be licensed pursuant to
the terms and provisions set forth in this chapter, and no person shall operate
a medical marihuana establishment in the village without first obtaining a
license. A medical marihuana establishment operating without a license under
the provisions of this chapter is deemed a public nuisance.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall issue a license for a medical marihuana
establishment only after the Village Clerk determines that the application and
proposed facility comply with the terms, conditions, and provisions of this
chapter. The term of each license shall be one year. A license issued under
this chapter may be conditioned on the approval of the operator by the state at
the location under the MMFLA.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.05 LICENSE REQUIRED; NUMBER OF LICENSES AVAILABLE.
   (A)   The village hereby authorizes the operation of the following types of
medical marihuana establishments, subject to the number of available licenses
issued in this section:
      (1)   Growers, Class C;
      (2)   Processors;
      (3)   Provisioning centers;
      (4)   Safety compliance facilities; and
      (5)   Secure transporters.
   (B)   The number of medical marihuana establishment licenses in effect at
any time shall not exceed the following maximums within the village:
      (1)   Grower licenses, Class C (not more than 1,500 marihuana plants):
one;
      (2)   Processor licenses: one;
      (3)   Provisioning center licenses: one;
      (4)   Safety compliance facility licenses: one; and
      (5)   Secure transporter licenses: one.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.06 LICENSE APPLICATION SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Each medical marihuana establishment must be licensed by the village.
Applications for a license shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk. All
applications submitted to the Village Clerk in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter shall be considered for the issuance of a license. Each
application shall contain a signed acknowledgment that the applicant is aware
and understands that all matters related to marihuana growing, cultivation,
possession, dispensing, testing, safety compliance, transporting, distribution,
and use are currently subject to state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations, and that the approval or granting of a license hereunder does not
exonerate or exculpate the applicant from abiding by the provisions and
requirements and penalties associated with those laws, rules, and regulations
or exposure to any penalties associated therewith; and further the applicant
waives and forever releases any claim, demand, action, legal redress, or
recourse against the village, its elected and appointed officials and its
employees and agents for any claims, damages, liabilities, causes of action,
damages, and attorney fees the applicant may incur as a result of the violation
by applicant, its officials, members, partners, shareholders, employees and
agents of those laws, rules, and regulations and hereby waives, and assumes the
risk of, any such claims and damages, and lack of recourse against the village,
its elected and appointed officials, employees, attorneys, and agents.
   (B)   A complete application for a license required by this ordinance shall
be made under oath on forms provided by the village, and shall contain all of
the following:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the applicant's name, date of
birth, physical address, email address, one or more phone numbers, including
emergency contact information, a copy of a government issued photo
identification card of the applicant, and a copy of the applicant’s caregiver
registry identification card issued pursuant to the MMMA.
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names, dates of birth,
physical addresses, email addresses, and one or more phone numbers of each
stakeholder of the applicant, including designation of a stakeholder as an
emergency contact person and contact information for the emergency contact
person, articles of incorporation, Internal Revenue Service SS-4 EIN
confirmation letter, and the operating agreement of the applicant, if a limited
liability company, and a copy of at least one stakeholder’s caregiver registry
identification card issued pursuant to the MMMA.
      (3)   The name and address of the proposed medical marihuana
establishment and any additional contact information deemed necessary by the
Village Clerk.
      (4)   With respect to medical marihuana provisioning centers, for the
applicant or for each stakeholder of the applicant, affirmation that each is at
least 18 years of age and has not been convicted of or pled guilty or no
contest to a disqualifying felony. With respect to all other medical marihuana
establishments, for the applicant or for each stakeholder of the applicant, an
affirmation that each and every agent or employee is at least 18 years of age
and has not been convicted of or pled guilty or no contest to a disqualifying
felony.
      (5)   A signed release authorizing the Village Police Department to
perform a criminal background check to ascertain whether the applicant, each
stakeholder of the applicant, each operator and employee of the applicant meet
the criteria set forth in this chapter.
      (6)   With respect to medical marihuana provisioning centers, the name,
date of birth, physical address, copy of photo identification, and email
address for any operator or employee if other than the applicant.
      (7)   An affirmation under oath as to whether the applicant or operator
has had a business license revoked or suspended, and if revoked or suspended,
then the reason therefore.
      (8)   For the applicant or for each stakeholder of the applicant, a
resume that includes whether the individual has any relevant experience with
medical marihuana or a related industry.
      (9)   A patient education plan to detail to patients the benefits or
drawbacks of certain marihuana strains or products in connection with the
debilitating medical conditions set forth in the MMMA.
      (10)   A written description of the training and education that the
applicant will provide to all employees.
      (11)   A copy of the proposed business plan for the establishment,
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The proposed ownership structure of the establishment, including
percentage ownership of each person or entity; and
         (b)   A current organization chart that includes position descriptions
and the names of each person holding each position.
      (12)   One of the following:
         (a)   Proof of ownership of the entire premises wherein the medical
marihuana establishment is to be operated; or
         (b)   Written consent from the property owner for use of the premises
in a manner requiring licensure under this chapter along with a copy of the
lease for the premises.
      (13)   (a)   A description of the security plan for the medical marihuana
establishment, including, but not limited to, any lighting alarms, barriers,
recording/monitoring devices, and/or security guard arrangements proposed for
the establishment and premises. The security plan must contain the
specification details of each piece of security equipment.
         (b)   Each medical marihuana establishment must have a security guard
present during business hours.
      (14)   A floor plan of the medical marihuana establishment, as well as a
scale diagram illustrating the property upon which the medical marihuana
establishment is to be operated, including all available parking spaces, and
specifying which parking spaces, if any, are handicapped-accessible.
      (15)   Any proposed text or graphical materials to be shown on the
exterior of the proposed medical marihuana establishment.
      (16)   A location area map of the medical marihuana establishment and
surrounding area that identifies the relative locations and the distances
(closest property line to the subject establishment’s property line) from the
subject medical marihuana establishment to the closest real property of an
operational public or private elementary or secondary school, church, park, a
facility at which substance abuse prevention services or substance abuse
treatment and rehabilitation services, as those terms are defined in Part 61 of
PA 368 of 1978, M.C.L.A. § 333.6101 et seq., another licensed medical marihuana
establishment or a commercial child care organization (non-home occupation)
that is required to be licensed or registered with the Michigan Department of
Health and Human Services.
      (17)   A facility sanitation plan to protect against any marihuana being
ingested by any person or animal, indicating how the waste will be stored and
disposed of, and how any marihuana will be rendered unusable upon disposal.
Disposal by on-site burning or introduction in the sewerage system is
prohibited.
      (18)   A proposed patient recordkeeping plan that will track quantities
sold to individual patients and caregivers and will monitor inventory.
      (19)   A description of procedures for testing of contaminants, including
mold and pesticides.
      (20)   An affidavit that neither the applicant nor any stakeholder of the
applicant is in default to the village. Specifically, that the applicant or
stakeholder of the applicant has not failed to pay any property taxes, special
assessments, fines, fee or other financial obligations to the village.
      (21)   Verification, with copies of actual bank statements, showing that
the applicant has tangible financial capital in the applicant’s name in the
amount sufficient to complete the medical marihuana establishment and to fund
the business plan and other plans required by this section.
      (22)   An estimate of the number and type of jobs that the medical
marihuana establishment is expected to create, the amount and type of
compensation expected to be paid for such jobs, and the projected annual budget
and revenue of the medical marihuana establishment.
      (23)   As it relates to a medical marihuana grower facility, the
following additional items shall be required:
         (a)   A cultivation plan that includes at a minimum a description of
the cultivation methods to be used, including plans for the growing mediums,
treatments, and/or additives;
         (b)   A production testing plan that includes at a minimum a
description of how and when samples for laboratory testing by an international
organization for standardization accredited testing facility will be selected,
what type of testing will be requested, and how the test results will be used;
         (c)   An affidavit that all operations will be conducted in
conformance with the MMMA, the MMFLA, and other applicable state law;
         (d)   A chemical and pesticide storage plan that states the names of
the pesticides to be used in cultivation and where and how pesticides and
chemicals will be stored in the establishment, along with a plan for the
disposal of unused pesticides; and
         (e)   All cultivation must be performed in a building.
      (24)   Proof of an insurance policy covering the establishment and naming
the village, its elected and appointed officials, employees, and agents, as
additional insured parties, available for the payment of any damages arising
out of an act or omission of the applicant or its stakeholders, agents,
employees, or subcontractors, in the amount of (i) at least $1,000,000 for
property damage; (ii) at least $1,000,000 for injury to one person; and (iii)
at least $2,000,000 for injury to two or more persons resulting from the same
occurrence. The insurance policy underwriter must have a minimum A.M. Best
Company Insurance Ranking of B+, consistent with state law.
      (25)   Any other information deemed necessary by the village.
   (C)   All applications shall be accompanied by a license application fee in
an amount of not more than $5,000 as established by Village Council resolution.
The license shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance unless
revoked as provided by law. If an application is approved and a license issued,
the annual fee of not more than $5,000 shall be established by Village Council
resolution, and paid by the licensee on an annual basis. The application and
the annual fees are established to defray the costs of administration of this
chapter.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a completed application meeting the requirements of
this section and appropriate nonrefundable license application fee, the Village
Clerk shall refer a copy of the application to each of the following for their
approval: the Village Fire Department, the Village Police Department, the
Village Zoning Administrator and the Village Treasurer.
   (E)   No application shall be accepted by the Village Clerk unless:
      (1)   The Village Fire Department has inspected the proposed location for
compliance with all laws for which they are charged with enforcement and for
compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   The Village Zoning Administrator has confirmed that the proposed
location complies with the zoning ordinance;
      (3)   The Village Treasurer has confirmed that the applicant and each
stakeholder of the applicant are not in default to the village; and
      (4)   (a)   The Village Police Department has determined that the
applicant has met the requirements of this chapter with respect to the
background check and security plan.
         (b)   If written approval is given by each individual or department
identified in this division (E), the Village Clerk shall accept a copy of the
application for consideration.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.07 LICENSE APPLICATION EVALUATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
116.09(A), the Village Clerk will assess all applications pursuant to the
provisions, requirements, and criteria set forth in this chapter and shall
consult with the Village Police Department, the Village Fire Department, the
Village Zoning Administrator, and the Treasury Department. The Village Clerk
may consult with outside professionals in the business and finance disciplines.
   (B)   In its application deliberations, the Village Clerk shall assess each
application in each of the following categories:
      (1)   Whether the reports issued by the Village Fire, Police, Building
Safety, Zoning and Treasury Departments indicate that the applicant or its
stakeholders or employees have satisfied the requirements of §
116.06(E) and sufficiently addressed the considerations of §
116.06(B);
      (2)   Whether the proposed establishment will negatively impact the
character and aesthetics of the surrounding neighborhood and community,
including whether the applicant or its stakeholders have engaged in positive
community outreach on behalf of the proposed establishment, and whether the
applicant or its stakeholders have made significant improvements to the
building or neighborhood where the proposed establishment is to be located; and
      (3)   Whether the applicant and its stakeholders are persons of good
character, honesty, and integrity who do not discredit or tend to discredit
public confidence and trust in the medical marihuana industry, or pose a threat
to the public health, security, safety, morals, good order, or general welfare.
   (C)   If the Village Clerk issues a certificate of approval to an applicant,
the Village Clerk shall issue an initial license to that applicant within ten
business days.
   (D)   Nothing in this section is intended to confer a property or other
right, duty, privilege or interest entitling an applicant to an administrative
hearing upon denial of an application or with regard to any scoring decision.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-20217; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.08 LICENSE RENEWAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a license renewal required by this chapter shall be
made in writing to the Village Clerk at least 30 days prior to the expiration
of an existing license.
   (B)   An application for a license renewal required by this chapter shall be
made under oath on forms provided by the village, and shall contain all of the
information required by §
116.06.
   (C)   An application shall be accompanied by a renewal fee in an amount of
not more than $5,000 as established by Village Council resolution. The renewal
fee is established to defray the costs of the administration of this chapter.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a completed application meeting the requirements of
this chapter and the license renewal fee, the Village Clerk shall refer a copy
of the renewal application to each of the following for their approval: the
Village Fire Department, the Village Police Department, the Village Zoning
Administrator, and the Village Treasurer.
   (E)   No renewal application shall be approved unless:
      (1)   The Village Fire Department has inspected the proposed location for
compliance with all laws for which they are charged with enforcement within the
past calendar year;
      (2)   The Village Zoning Administrator has confirmed that the proposed
location currently complies with the zoning code and this chapter;
      (3)   The Village Treasurer has confirmed that the applicant and each
stakeholder of the applicant and the proposed location of the facility are not
currently in default to the village;
      (4)   The Village Police Department has reviewed the application and
determined that the applicant has satisfied the requirements of this chapter
with respect to the background check and security plan; and
      (5)   The Village Clerk has reviewed the application for compliance with
§
116.07(B).
   (F)   If written approval is given by each individual or department
identified in division (E), the Village Clerk shall issue a license renewal to
the applicant. If no renewal license is issued, one-half of the renewal fee
shall be returned to the applicant. The license renewal shall be deemed
approved if the village has not issued formal notice of approval or denial
within 60 days of the application being filed.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-20217; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.09 LICENSES GENERALLY.
   (A)   To the extent permissible under law, all information submitted in
conjunction with an application for a license or license renewal required by
this chapter is confidential and exempt from disclosure under the Michigan
Freedom of Information Act, 1976 PA 442, M.C.L.A. § 15.231 et seq.
   (B)   Licensees may transfer a license issued under this chapter to a
different location upon receiving written approval from the Village Clerk. In
order to request approval to transfer a license location, the licensee must
make a written request to the Village Clerk, indicating the current license
location and the proposed license location. Upon receiving the written request,
the Village Clerk shall refer a copy of the written request to each of the
following for their approval: the Village Fire Department, the Village Police
Department, the Village Zoning Administrator, and the Village Treasurer. No
license transfer shall be approved unless each such individual or department
gives written approval that the licensee and the proposed license location meet
the standards identified in §
116.06(E) and the Village Clerk has determined that the proposed location meets
the requirements of §
116.07(B)(2).
   (C)   Licensees may transfer a license issued under this chapter to a
different individual or entity upon receiving written approval by the Village
Clerk. In order to request approval to transfer a license to a different
individual or entity, the licensee must make a written request to the Village
Clerk, indicating the current licensee and the proposed licensee. Upon
receiving the written request, the Village Clerk shall consider the request as
a new application for a license and the procedures set forth in §§
116.06 and
116.07 shall be followed.
   (D)   Licensees shall report any other change in the information required by
this chapter to the Clerk within ten business days of the change. Failure to do
so may result in suspension or revocation of the license.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.10 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF A MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROVISIONING
CENTER.
   (A)   Every medical marihuana provisioning center must be located in a
building.
   (B)   No medical marihuana provisioning center shall be open between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (C)   Consumption of marihuana shall be prohibited on the premises of a
medical marihuana provisioning center except as permitted by state law.
   (D)   A medical marihuana provisioning center shall continuously monitor the
entire premises on which they are operated with surveillance systems that
include security cameras. The video recordings shall be maintained in a secure,
off-site location for a period of 14 days.
   (E)   Unless permitted by the MMMA, public or common areas of the medical
marihuana provisioning center must be separated from restricted or non-public
areas of the provisioning center by a permanent barrier. Unless permitted by
the MMMA, no medical marihuana is permitted to be stored, displayed, or
transferred in an area accessible to the general public.
   (F)   All medical marihuana storage areas within medical marihuana
provisioning center must be separated from any customer/patient areas by a
permanent barrier. Unless permitted by the MMMA, no medical marihuana is
permitted to be stored in an area accessible by the general public or
registered customers/patients. Medical marihuana may be displayed in a sales
area only if permitted by the MMFLA.
   (G)   Any usable medical marihuana remaining on the premises of a medical
marihuana provisioning center while the medical marihuana provisioning center
is not in operation shall be secured in a safe permanently affixed to the
premises.
   (H)   Drive-thru windows on the premises of a medical marihuana provisioning
center shall not be permitted.
   (I)   No medical marihuana provisioning center shall be operated in a manner
creating noise, dust, vibration, glare, fumes, or odors detectable to normal
senses beyond the boundaries of the property on which the medical marihuana
provisioning center is operated.
   (J)   The license required by this chapter shall be prominently displayed on
the premises of a medical marihuana provisioning center.
   (K)   Disposal of medical marihuana shall be accomplished in a manner that
prevents its acquisition by any person who may not lawfully possess it and
otherwise in conformance with state law.
   (L)   All medical marihuana delivered to a patient shall be packaged and
labeled as provided by state law and this chapter. The label shall include:
      (1)   A unique alpha-numeric identifier for the person to whom it is
being delivered.
      (2)   A unique alpha-numeric identifier for the cultivation source of the
marihuana.
      (3)   That the package contains marihuana.
      (4)   The date of delivery, weight, type of marihuana and dollar amount
or other consideration being exchanged in the transaction.
      (5)   A certification that all marihuana in any form contained in the
package was cultivated, manufactured, and packaged in the State of Michigan.
      (6)   The warning that: “This product is manufactured without any
regulatory oversight for health, safety or efficacy. There may be health risks
associated with the ingestion or use of this product. Using this product may
cause drowsiness. Do not drive or operate heavy machinery while using this
product. Keep this product out of reach of children. This product may not be
used in any way that does not comply with state law or by a person who does not
possess a valid medical marihuana patient registry card.”
      (7)   The name, address, email address, and telephone number of an
authorized representative of the dispensary whom a patient can contact with any
questions regarding the product.
   (M)   A licensee shall require all registered patients to present both their
Michigan medical marihuana patient/caregiver ID card and state identification
prior to entering restricted/limited areas or non-public areas of the medical
marihuana provisioning center, and if no restricted/limited area is required,
then promptly upon entering the medical marihuana provisioning center.
   (N)   The premises shall be open for inspection during the stated hours of
operation and as such other times as anyone is present on the premises.
   (O)   It shall be prohibited to display any signs that are inconsistent with
local laws or regulations or state law.
   (P)   It shall be prohibited from displaying or distributing in any manner,
physically or electronically, advertising material that is misleading,
deceptive, or false, or that is designed to appeal to minors.
   (Q)   No licensed medical marihuana provisioning center shall place or
maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, an advertisement of medical
marihuana in any form or through any medium:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet measured property line to property line of the
real property line comprising an operational school; a commercial child care
organization (non-home occupation) that is required to be licensed or
registered with the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, or its
successor agency, under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA, M.C.L.A. §
722.11 et seq; or
      (2)   Within 250 feet measured property line to property line, of a
facility at which substance abuse prevention services or a substance abuse
treatment and rehabilitation services, as those terms are defined in part 61 PA
368 of 1978, M.C.L.A. § 333.6101 et seq., are offered; a church or other
structure in which religious services are conducted; parks; or another medical
marihuana establishment.
   (R)   Certified laboratory testing results that display at a minimum the
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), cannabidiol (CBD), total cannabinoid testing
results, and a pass/fail rating based on the certified laboratory’s state-
required testing must be available to all medical marihuana provisioning center
patients/customers upon request and prominently displayed.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 2022-1,
passed 8-29-2022)
§ 116.11 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF A MEDICAL MARIHUANA GROWER FACILITY.
   (A)   The following minimum standards for medical marihuana grower
facilities shall apply:
      (1)   The medical marihuana grower facility shall comply at all times and
in all circumstances with the MMMA, the MMFLA, the MTA, and the general rules
of the Medical Marihuana Licensing Board and the Department of Licensing and
Regulatory Affairs, or their successors, as the foregoing laws and regulations
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Except as provided by state law, consumption and/or use of medical
marihuana shall be prohibited at the grower facility.
      (3)   All grower activity related to the grower facility shall be
performed in a building.
      (4)   The premises shall be open for inspection during the stated hours
of operation and as such other times as anyone is present on the premises.
      (5)   Any medical marihuana grower facility shall comply with the MTA and
shall maintain a logbook and/or database identifying by date the amount of
medical marihuana and the number of medical marihuana plants on the premises,
which shall not exceed the amount permitted under the grower license issued by
the State of Michigan. This log shall be available to law enforcement personnel
to confirm that the medical marihuana grower does not have more medical
marihuana than authorized at the location and shall not be used to disclose
more information than is reasonably necessary to verify the lawful amount of
medical marihuana at the facility.
      (6)   All medical marihuana shall be contained within the building in a
locked facility in accordance with the MMMA, the MMFLA, MTA, and the rules and
regulations of the Medical Marihuana Licensing Board, as amended.
      (7)   All necessary building, electrical plumbing and mechanical permits
shall be obtained from the village or other applicable government authority for
any portion of the structure in which electrical wiring, lighting and/or
watering devices that support the cultivation, growing or harvesting of
marihuana are located.
      (8)   That portion of the structure where any chemicals such as
herbicides, pesticides, and fertilizers are stored shall be subject to
inspection and approval by the Village Fire Department to insure compliance
with the Michigan Fire Codes.
      (9)   The dispensing of medical marihuana at the medical marihuana grower
facility shall be prohibited.
      (10)   There shall be no other accessory uses permitted within the same
facility other than those associated with cultivating, processing, or testing
medical marihuana. Multi-tenant commercial buildings may permit accessory uses
in suites segregated from medical marihuana grower facility.
      (11)   All persons working in direct contact with medical marihuana shall
conform to hygienic practices while on duty, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Maintaining adequate personal cleanliness;
         (b)   Washing hands thoroughly in adequate hand-washing areas before
starting work and at any other time when the hands may have become soiled or
contaminated; and
         (c)   Refraining from having direct contact with medical marihuana if
the person has or may have an illness, open lesion, including boils, sores or
infected wounds, or any other abnormal source of microbial contamination, until
the condition is corrected.
      (12)   Litter and waste shall be properly removed and the operating
systems for waste disposal are maintained in an adequate manner so that they do
not constitute a source of contamination in areas where medical marihuana is
exposed.
      (13)   Floors, walls, and ceilings shall be constructed in such a manner
that they may be adequately cleaned and kept clean and in good repair.
      (14)   There shall be adequate screening or other protection against the
entry of pests. Rubbish shall be disposed of to minimize the development of
odor, minimize the potential for waste development, and minimize the potential
for waste becoming an attractant, harborage or breeding place for pests.
      (15)   Any buildings, fixtures and other facilities shall be maintained
in a sanitary condition.
      (16)   Each cultivation center shall provide its occupants with adequate
and readily accessible toilet facilities that are maintained in a sanitary
condition and good repair.
      (17)   Medical marihuana that can support the rapid growth of undesirable
microorganisms shall be held in a manner that prevents the growth of these
microorganisms.
      (18)   Medical marihuana grower facilities shall be free from infestation
by insects, rodents, birds, or vermin of any kind.
      (19)   Medical marihuana grower facilities shall produce no products
other than useable medical marihuana intended for human consumption.
   (B)   Exterior signage or advertising identifying the facility as a medical
marihuana grower facility shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.12 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF A MEDICAL MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE
FACILITY.
   (A)   The following minimum standards for safety compliance facilities shall
apply:
      (1)   The safety compliance facility shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the MMMA, the MMFLA, the MTA, and the general rules of the
Medical Marihuana Licensing Board and the Department of Licensing and
Regulatory Affairs, or their successors, as the foregoing laws and regulations
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Except as provided by state law, consumption and/or use of medical
marihuana shall be prohibited at the facility.
      (3)   The premises shall be open for inspection during the stated hours
of operation and as such other times as anyone is present on the premises.
      (4)   Any safety compliance facility shall maintain a log book and/or
database identifying by date the amount of medical marihuana on the premises
and from which particular source. The facility shall maintain the
confidentiality of qualifying patients in compliance with the MMMA, MMFLA, and
MTA, as amended.
      (5)   All medical marihuana shall be contained within the building in an
enclosed, locked facility in accordance with the MMMA, the MMFLA and the MTA,
and the rules and regulations of the Medical Marihuana Licensing Board, as
amended.
      (6)   There shall be no other accessory uses permitted within the same
facility other than those associated with testing medical marihuana.
      (7)   All persons working in direct contact with medical marihuana shall
conform to hygienic practices while on duty.
      (8)   Litter and waste shall be properly removed and the operating
systems for waste disposal are maintained in an adequate manner so that they do
not constitute a source of contamination in areas where medical marihuana is
exposed.
      (9)   Floors, walls and ceilings shall be constructed in such a manner
that they may be adequately cleaned and kept clean and in good repair.
      (10)   Any buildings, fixtures and other facilities shall be maintained
in a sanitary condition.
      (11)   Medical marihuana that can support the rapid growth of undesirable
microorganisms shall be held in a manner that prevents the growth of these
microorganisms.
   (B)   Exterior signage or advertising identifying the facility as a medical
marihuana safety compliance facility shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.13 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF A MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROCESSOR
FACILITY AND A MEDICAL MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER.
   (A)   The following minimum standards for processor and a secure transporter
shall apply:
      (1)   The processor and secure transporter shall comply at all times and
in all circumstances with the MMMA, the MMFLA and MTA, and the general rules of
the Medical Marihuana Licensing Board and the Department of Licensing and
Regulatory Affairs, or their successors, as the foregoing laws and regulations
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Except as provided by state law, consumption and/or use of medical
marihuana shall be prohibited at the processor or secure transporter facility.
      (3)   All activity related to the processor facility shall be performed
indoors in a building.
      (4)   The premises shall be open for inspection during the stated hours
of operation and as such other times as anyone is present on the premises.
      (5)   Any processor and/or secure transporter facility shall maintain a
log book and/or database in accordance with the MMFLA and the MTA, and the
rules and regulations of the Medical Marihuana Licensing Board identifying by
date the amount of medical marihuana on the premises which shall not exceed the
amount permitted under the processor license issued by the State of Michigan,
to the extent a state permit process exists. This log shall be available to law
enforcement personnel to confirm that the processor does not have more medical
marihuana than authorized at the location and shall not be used to disclose
more information than is reasonably necessary to verify the lawful amount of
medical marihuana at the facility.
      (6)   All medical marihuana will be tagged with unique identification.
      (7)   All medical marihuana shall be contained within the building in a
locked facility in accordance with the MMMA, the MMFLA the MTA, and the rules
and regulations of the Medical Marihuana Licensing Board, as amended.
      (8)   All necessary building, electrical plumbing and mechanical permits
shall be obtained for any portion of the structure in which electrical wiring
for devices that support the processing or secure transporting of medical
marihuana are located.
      (9)   That portion of the structure where the storage of any chemicals
exists shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Village Fire
Department to insure compliance with the Michigan Fire Protection Code.
      (10)   The dispensing of medical marihuana at the medical marihuana
processor or secure transporter facility shall be prohibited except as
authorized by state law.
      (11)   There shall be no other accessory uses permitted within the same
facility other than those associated with the processing or secure transporting
of medical marihuana. Multi-tenant commercial buildings may permit accessory
uses in suites segregated from the processor facility.
      (12)   All persons working in direct contact with medical marihuana shall
conform to hygienic practices while on duty, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Maintaining adequate personal cleanliness;
         (b)   Washing hands thoroughly in adequate hand-washing areas before
starting work and at any other time when the hands may have become soiled or
contaminated; and
         (c)   Refraining from having direct contact with medical marihuana if
the person has or may have an illness, open lesion, including boils, sores or
infected wounds, or any other abnormal source of microbial contamination, until
the condition is corrected.
      (13)   Litter and waste shall be properly removed and the operating
systems for waste disposal are maintained in an adequate manner so that they do
not constitute a source of contamination in areas where medical marihuana is
exposed.
      (14)   Floors, walls, and ceilings shall be constructed in such a manner
that they may be adequately cleaned and kept clean and in good repair.
      (15)   There shall be adequate screening or other protection against the
entry of pests. Rubbish shall be disposed of to minimize the development of
odor and minimize the potential for the waste development of odor and minimize
the potential for waste becoming and attractant, harborage or breeding places
for pests.
      (16)   Any buildings, fixtures and other facilities shall be maintained
in a sanitary condition.
      (17)   Each medical marihuana processor facility shall provide its
occupants with adequate and readily accessible toilet facilities that are
maintained in a sanitary condition and good repair.
      (18)   Medical marihuana that can support the rapid growth of undesirable
microorganisms shall be held in a manner that prevents the growth of these
microorganisms.
      (19)   Processor facilities shall be free from infestation by insects,
rodents, birds, or vermin or any kind.
      (20)   Processor facilities shall produce no products other than useable
medical marihuana intended for human consumption.
   (B)   Exterior signage or advertising identifying the facility as a
processor facility shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.14 LOCATION OF MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROVISIONING CENTERS.
   (A)   No medical marihuana provisioning center shall be located within:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet measured property line to property line of the
real property line comprising an operational school; a commercial child care
organization (non-home occupation) that is required to be licensed or
registered with the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, or its
successor agency, under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA, M.C.L.A. §
722.11 et seq; or
      (2)   Within 250 feet, measured property line to property line, of a
facility at which substance abuse prevention services or substance abuse
treatment and rehabilitation services, as those terms are defined in Part 61 of
PA 368 of 1978, M.C.L.A. § 333.6101 et seq., are offered; a church or other
structure in which religious services are conducted; parks; or another medical
marihuana establishment.
   (B)   Medical marihuana provisioning centers shall be subject to division
(A) and shall be located only in the commercial district as a special use, as
further specified in the zoning ordinance of the village.
   (C)   No medical marihuana provisioning center shall be located within
another business, however, notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter
to the contrary, adult use marihuana establishments may be co located with
equivalent medical marihuana facilities provided it is done in compliance with
Michigan Administrative Code R420.205. Furthermore notwithstanding anything
contained in this chapter to the contrary, a licensee that has any combination
of marihuana licenses may operate separate marihuana businesses at the same
location provided it is done in compliance with Michigan Administrative Code
420.204.
   (D)   No medical marihuana establishment shall be located in an unzoned area
or in an area subject to an agreement entered into pursuant to Public Act 425
of 1984.
   (E)   Except as otherwise permissible under state law, no person shall allow
the consumption of marihuana or marihuana infused products on licensed
premises.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 2022-1,
passed 8-29-2022)
§ 116.15 LOCATION OF MEDICAL MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITIES, MEDICAL
MARIHUANA PROCESSOR FACILITIES, MEDICAL MARIHUANA GROWER FACILITIES, AND
MEDICAL MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTERS.
   (A)   No medical marihuana safety compliance facility, medical marihuana
processor facility, medical marihuana grower facility, or medical marihuana
secure transporter shall be located within:
      (1)   1,000 feet measured property line to property line of the real
property line comprising an operational school; a commercial child care
organization (non-home occupation) that is required to be licensed or
registered with the Michigan Department of Health and Human Services, or its
successor agency, under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA, M.C.L.A. §
722.11 et seq; or
      (2)   500 feet, measured property line to property line, of a facility at
which substance abuse prevention services or substance abuse treatment and
rehabilitation services, as those terms are defined in Part 61 of PA 368 of
1978, M.C.L.A. § 333.6101 et seq., are offered; a church or other structure in
which religious services are conducted; parks; or another medical marihuana
establishment.
   (B)   All medical marihuana safety compliance facilities, medical marihuana
processor facilities, and medical marihuana secure transporter facilities shall
be subject to division (A) and shall be located only in the industrial
districts as a special use, as further specified in the zoning ordinance of the
VIllage.
   (C)   All medical marihuana grower facilities shall be subject to division
(A) and shall be located only in the industrial district as a special use, as
further specified in the zoning ordinance of the village.
   (D)   The use of property as a medical marihuana safety compliance facility,
medical marihuana processor facility, a medical marihuana secure transporter
facility or a medical marihuana growing facility within the industrial district
shall require submittal of a special use permit application and approval of a
special use permit, pursuant to the Village Zoning Ordinance, Article XV,
“Special Uses.”
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.16 LICENSE REVOCATION; BASES FOR REVOCATION; APPEAL OF LICENSE DENIAL
   (A)   A license issued under this chapter may be revoked after an
administrative hearing and a determination that any grounds for revocation
under division (B) exist. Notice of the time and place of the hearing and the
grounds for revocation must be given to the licensee at least five days prior
to the date of the hearing, by first class mail to the address given on the
license application or any address provided pursuant to §
116.06(B)(1), (2) or (3).
   (B)   A license issued under this chapter may be denied or revoked on any of
the following bases:
      (1)   A material violation of any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   Any conviction of a disqualifying felony by the licensee,
stakeholder, or any person holding an ownership interest in the license;
      (3)   Commission of fraud or misrepresentation or the making of a false
statement by the applicant, licensee, or any stakeholder of the applicant or
licensee while engaging in any activity for which this chapter requires a
license;
      (4)   Failure to obtain and maintain a certificate of approval from the
Village Clerk; or
      (5)   The medical marihuana establishment is determined by the village to
have become a public nuisance.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall notify an applicant of the reason(s) for
denial of an application or revocation of a license and provide the applicant
with the opportunity to be heard. Any applicant aggrieved by the denial or
revocation of a license under this chapter may appeal to the Village Clerk, who
shall appoint a hearing officer. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the
Village Clerk, within 14 days after notice of the action complained of has been
mailed to the applicant’s last known address on the records of the Village
Clerk, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The
review on appeal of a denial or revocation shall be limited to whether there
has been an abuse of discretion in the decision or that the decision is not
supported by material and competent evidence. The final and conclusive decision
on appeal shall be the Village Council who shall receive a report and
recommendation from the hearing officer.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 116.17 PENALTIES; TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   The village may require an applicant or licensee of a medical
marihuana facility to produce documents, records, or any other material
pertinent to the investigation of an application or alleged violation of this
chapter. Failure to provide the required material may be grounds for
application denial or license revocation.
   (B)   Any person in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the payment of a
civil fine, plus costs. Increased civil fines may be imposed for a repeat
violation. As used in this section, “repeat violation” shall mean a second or
any subsequent infraction of the same requirement or provision committed by a
person or establishment within any 12-month period. Unless otherwise
specifically provided in this chapter or any other ordinance for a municipal
infraction, the penalty schedule is as follows:
      (1)   $500, plus costs, for the first violation;
      (2)   $750, plus costs, for a repeat violation; and
      (3)   $750, plus costs, per day, plus costs, for any violation that
continues for more than one day.
   (C)   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed to be a nuisance per se.
In addition to any other remedy available at law, the village may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against the person to restrain,
prevent or abate any violation of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter shall be enforced and administered by the Zoning
Administrator or such other village official as may be designated from time to
time by resolution of the Village Council.
   (E)   All fines imposed under this chapter shall be paid within 45 days
after the effective date of the order imposing the fine or as otherwise
specified in the order.
   (F)   The Village President may temporarily suspend a medical marihuana
establishment license without a prior hearing if the Village President finds
that public safety or welfare requires emergency action affecting the public
health, safety, or welfare. The Village President shall cause the temporary
suspension by issuing a suspension notice in connection with institution of
proceedings for notice and a hearing.
   (G)   If the Village President temporarily suspends a license without a
prior hearing, the licensee is entitled to a hearing within 30 days after the
suspension notice has been served on the licensee or posted on the licensed
premises. In the case of a license issued for a medical marihuana grower
facility, the hearing shall be held within seven days after the notice has been
served on the licensee or posted on the premises of the licensed facility. The
hearing shall be limited to the issues cited in the suspension notice;
   (H)   If the Village President does not hold a hearing within 30 days after
the date the suspension was served on the licensee or posted on the licensed
premises, or in the case of a grower facility seven days, then the suspended
license shall be automatically reinstated and the suspension vacated.
   (I)   The penalty provisions of this chapter are not intended to foreclose
any other remedy or sanction that might be available to, or imposed by the
village, including criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed 8-21-2017; Ord. 2019-1, passed 8-19-2019)
CHAPTER 117: ADULT USE MARIHUANA
Section
   
117.01   Purpose
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Authorization of marihuana establishments and fee
   
117.04   Requirements and procedure for issuing marihuana establishment permits
   
117.05   Permit renewal
   
117.06   Permit application evaluation
   
117.07   Permits generally
   
117.08   Minimal operational standards for all marihuana establishments
   
117.09   Minimum operational standards of grower establishments
   
117.10   Minimum operational standards of processor establishments
   
117.11   Minimum operational standards of marihuana retailers
   
117.12   Minimum operational standards of secure transporter establishments
   
117.13   Minimum operational standards of safety compliance facilities
   
117.14   Minimum operational standards of microbusiness establishments
   
117.15   Minimum operational standards of temporary marihuana events
   
117.16   Minimum operational standards of marihuana event organizers
   
117.17   Location of retailers, microbusinesses or temporary marihuana event
   
117.18   Zoning districts for adult use marihuana establishments
   
117.19   Denial and revocation
   
117.99   Penalties and discipline
§ 117.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A chapter to implement the provisions of the Michigan Regulation and
Taxation of Marihuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2018, which authorizes the
licensing and regulation of adult use marihuana establishments and affords the
village the option to regulate the time, place, and manner by which adult use
marihuana establishments may operate in the village; to regulate adult use
marihuana establishments by requiring a permit and compliance with requirements
of this chapter, in order to maintain the public health safety and general
welfare of the community; retain the character of neighborhoods; and mitigate
potential impacts on surrounding properties and persons.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult use marihuana
establishments. The village finds that these activities are significantly
connected to the public health, safety, security, and welfare of its citizens
and it is therefore necessary to regulate and enforce safety, security, fire,
policing, health, and sanitation practices related to such activities and also
to provide a method to defray administrative costs incurred by such regulation
and enforcement. It is not the intent of this chapter to diminish, abrogate, or
restrict the protections for adult-use marihuana use found in the Michigan
Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. § 333.27951 et seq.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to grant immunity from criminal or
civil prosecution, penalty, or sanction for the cultivation, manufacture,
possession, use, sale, or distribution of marihuana, in any form, that is not
in compliance with the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act,
Initiated Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. § 333.27951 et seq.; the Medical Marihuana
Facilities Licensing Act, M.C.L.A. § 333.27101 et seq.; the Marihuana Tracking
Act, M.C.L. § 333.27901 et seq.; and all other applicable rules promulgated by
the state of Michigan.
   (D)   As of the effective date of this chapter, marihuana remains classified
as a Schedule 1 controlled substance under the Federal Controlled Substances
Act, 21 U.S.C. § 801 et seq., which makes it unlawful to manufacture,
distribute, or dispense marihuana, or process marihuana with intent to
manufacture, distribute, or dispense marihuana. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to grant immunity from any criminal prosecution under federal laws.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   Any term defined by the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana
Act, M.C.L.A. § 333.27953, shall have the definition given in the Michigan
Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (hereinafter, the "Act") as the same
may be amended from time to time, which words and phrases are incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   Any term defined by LARA and the Marihuana Regulatory Agency shall
have the definition given in the emergency rules or the administrative rules
adopted by the Michigan Marihuana Regulation Agency on June 22, 2020, to
implement both the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act
(hereinafter, the "MRTMA") and the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act
(hereinafter, the "MMFLA''), as applicable (hereinafter, the "rules") which
words and phrases are incorporated herein by reference.
   EQUIVALENT LICENSES. Any of the following held by a person:
      (1)   A marihuana grower license of any class issued under the Michigan
Regulations and Taxation of Marihuana Act and a grower license, of any class,
issued under the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act.
      (2)   A marihuana processor license issued under the Michigan Regulations
and Taxation of Marihuana Act and a processor license issued under the Medical
Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act.
      (3)   A marihuana retailer license issued under the Michigan Regulations
and Taxation of Marihuana Act and a provisioning center license issued under
the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act.
      (4)   A marihuana secure transporter license issued under the Michigan
Regulations and Taxation of Marihuana Act and a secure transporter license
issued under the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act.
      (5)   A marihuana safety compliance facility license issued under the
Michigan Regulations and Taxation of Marihuana Act and a safety compliance
facility license issued under the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act.
   LARA. The Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs.
   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT. A marihuana grower, marihuana safety compliance
facility, marihuana processor, marihuana microbusiness, marihuana retailer,
marihuana secure transporter, or any other type of marihuana related business
licensed by LARA. MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT or ESTABLISHMENT shall mean adult use
marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA EVENT ORGANIZER. A person licensed by the state to apply for a
temporary marihuana event license under the rules issued by LARA.
   MARIHUANA GROWER. A person licensed by the state to cultivate marihuana and
sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA MICROBUSINESS. A person licensed by the state to cultivate not
more than 150 marihuana plants; process and package marihuana; and sell or
otherwise transfer marihuana to individuals who are 21 years of age or older or
to a marihuana safety compliance facility, but not to operate other marihuana
establishments.
   MARIHUANA PROCESSOR. A person licensed by the state to obtain marihuana from
marihuana establishments; process and package marihuana; and sell or otherwise
transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA PRODUCT. A marihuana or a marihuana-infused product, or both, as
those terms are defined in the Act unless otherwise provided for in the rules.
   MARIHUANA RETAILER. A person licensed by the state to obtain marihuana from
marihuana establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to
marihuana establishments and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
   MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A person licensed by the state to test
marihuana, including certification for potency and the presence of
contaminants.
   MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person licensed by the state to obtain
marihuana from marihuana establishments in order to transport marihuana to
marihuana establishments.
   MUNICIPAL PERMIT. A current and valid permit (hereinafter referred to as
"permit") for a marihuana establishment issued under this chapter by the
village, which shall be granted to a permit holder only for and limited to a
specific permitted premises and a specific permitted property.
   OUTDOOR GROWERS. Marihuana grown outdoors without the aid of lighting and
heat.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The person that holds a current and valid permit issued under
this chapter.
   PERMITTEE. A person holding a permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter.
   PERMITTED PREMISES. The building or buildings within which the municipal
permit holder will be authorized to conduct the marihuana establishment
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   PERMITTED PROPERTY. The real property comprised of a lot, parcel of other
designated unit of real property on which the permitted premises is situated.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership
of any type, trust, or other legal entity.
   STAKEHOLDER. Any shareholder of a corporation, partner in a partnership,
member of a limited liability company or individual of a sole proprietorship.
   STATE. The state of Michigan.
   TEMPORARY MARIHUANA EVENT. An event held by a marihuana event organizer for
an event where the onsite sale or consumption of marihuana products, or both,
are authorized at the location indicated on the village permit and state
license during the dates indicated on the village permit and state license.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Eau Claire.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Village of Eau Claire Clerk.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village of Eau Claire Council.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Village of Eau Claire Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 117.03 AUTHORIZATION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS AND FEE.
   (A)   The maximum number of each type of adult use marihuana establishments
allowed in the village shall be as follows in accordance with the regulations
below:
NUMBER OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS TO BE PERMITTED
NUMBER OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS TO BE PERMITTED
Marihuana grower                                   
   Class A - not more than 100 marihuana plants1
   Class B - not more than 500 marihuana plants1
   Class C - not more than 2,000 marihuana plan6s
Marihuana processor                               2
Marihuana retailer                                2
Marihuana secure transporter                      2
Marihuana safety compliance facility              2
Marihuana microbusiness                           1
Temporary marihuana event                         1
 
   (B)   The village shall only accept applications for marihuana
establishments from persons holding both a municipal permit and a state
operating license pursuant to the MMFLA, 2016 PA 281, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 to
333.27801.
   (C)   At least every year after adoption of this chapter, Village Council
may review, as needed, the maximum number of each type of marihuana
establishments allowed and determine whether this maximum number should be
changed. The review and its findings shall be recorded in the minutes of the
relevant meeting of the Village Council.
   (D)   A nonrefundable fee shall be paid by each marihuana establishment
permitted under this chapter in an annual amount of not more than $5,000 as set
by resolution of the Village Council as follows:
Establishment Fee
Establishment                        Fee
Marihuana grower (all classes)       $5,000
Marihuana processor                  $5,000
Marihuana retailer                   $5,000
Marihuana secure transporter         $5,000
Marihuana safety compliance facility $5,000
Marihuana microbusiness              $5,000
Temporary marihuana event            $1,000 plus $500 per day
Marihuana event organizer            $1,000 per event
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 117.04 REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE FOR ISSUING MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT
PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a marihuana establishment in the village
without a valid marihuana establishment permit issued by the village pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall be issued a permit by the village without first having
obtained from the Planning Commission a special use permit authorizing the
operation of the establishment pursuant to the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   No person who is employed by the village, acts as a consultant for the
village or acts as an advisor to the village, and is involved in the
implementation, administration or enforcement of this chapter shall have an
interest, directly or indirectly, in a marihuana establishment.
   (D)   The village shall only accept applications for marihuana
establishments from persons holding both a municipal permit and a state
operating license pursuant to the MMFLA, 2016 PA 281, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 to
333.27801. Upon receipt of an application, the Village Clerk shall file the
same and assign it a sequential application number by establishment type based
on the date and time of receipt.
   (E)   The requirements of division (D) above shall not apply to applicants
for an adult use marihuana microbusiness. Upon receipt of an application, the
Village Clerk shall file the same and assign it an application number based on
the date and time of receipt.
   (F)   Application for each adult use marihuana establishment permit shall be
made in writing to the Village Clerk and shall be considered by the Village
Council after the applicant has received a special use permit from the Planning
Commission and has been approved by the state prior to commencing operation.
   (G)   An application for an adult use marihuana establishment permit
required by this chapter shall contain the following:
      (1)   The appropriate non-refundable permit application fee in the amount
determined by the village as set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   If the applicant is an individual, the applicant's name, date of
birth, Social Security Number, physical address, including residential and any
business address(es) attached to the individual, copy of government issued
photo identification. email address, and one or more phone numbers, including
emergency contact information, and if applicable Federal EIN;
      (3)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names, date of birth,
Social Security Number, physical addresses, including residential and any
business address(es), copy of government issued photo identification, email
addresses, and one or more phone numbers of each stakeholder of the applicant,
including designation of the highest ranking stakeholder and/or general partner
as an emergency contact person and contain information for the emergency
contact person, articles of incorporation or organization, assumed name
registration documents, Internal Revenue Service SS-4, EIN confirmation letter
(s), and a copy of the operating agreement of the applicant, if a limited
liability company copy of the partnership agreement, if a partnership, names
and addresses of the beneficiaries, if a trust, or a copy of the by-laws or
shareholder agreement, if a corporation;
      (4)   The name and address of the proposed adult use marihuana
establishment.
      (5)   A copy of the special use permit issued by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   A signed acknowledgment that the applicant is aware and understands
that all matters related to marihuana growing, cultivation, possession,
testing, safety compliance and transporting, are currently subject to state and
federal laws, rules and regulations, and that the approval or granting of a
permit hereunder does not exonerate or exculpate the applicant from abiding by
the provisions and requirements and penalties associated with those laws, rules
and regulations, or exposure to any penalties associated therewith; and
further, the applicant waives and forever releases any claim, demand, action,
legal redress or recourse against the village, its elected and appointed
officials, and its employees and agents for any claims, damages, liabilities,
causes of action, damages, or attorney fees that the applicant may incur as a
result of the violation by the applicant, its stakeholders and agents of those
laws, rules and regulations.
      (7)   A signed release authorizing the Eau Claire Police Department to
perform a criminal background check to ascertain whether the applicant, each
stakeholder of the applicant, each managerial employee and employee of the
applicant meet the criteria set forth in this chapter.
      (8)   The name, date of birth, physical address (residential and any
business address(es), copy of photo identification, and email address for any
managerial employee or employee of the adult use marihuana establishment, if
other than the applicant;
      (9)   One of the following:
         (a)   Proof of ownership of the entire premises wherein the marihuana
establishment is to be operated; or
         (b)   Written consent from the property owner for use of the premises
as a marihuana establishment requiring a permit under this chapter along with a
copy of the lease for the premises;
      (10)   Proof of, or ability to obtain, an adequate premise liability and
casualty insurance policy in the amount not less than the requirements
addressed in the Act or applicable state laws, covering the adult use marihuana
establishment and naming the village as an additional insured party.
      (11)   A description of the security plan for the adult use marihuana
establishment, including, but not limited to any lighting, alarms, barriers,
recording/monitoring devises, and/or security guard arrangements proposed for
the facility and premises. The security plan must contain the specification
details of each piece of security equipment.
      (12)   A floor plan of the adult use marihuana establishment, as well as
a scale diagram site plan illustrating the property upon which the adult use
marihuana establishment is to be operated, including all available parking
spaces, and specifying which parking spaces, if any, are handicapped-
accessible, and the location of the material safety data sheets and any
chemical storage.
      (13)   A staffing plan.
      (14)   Any proposed text or graphical materials to be shown on the
exterior of the proposed adult use marihuana establishment.
      (15)   A location area map of the adult use marihuana establishment and
surrounding area that identifies the relative locations and the distances
(closest property line to the subject adult use marihuana establishment's
building) to the subject adult use marihuana establishment to the closest real
property comprising a public or private elementary, vocational or secondary
school; and church or religious institution if recognized as a tax exempt
entity as determined by the Village Assessor's Office;
      (16)   As it relates to a grower establishment, the following additional
items shall be required:
         (a)   An affidavit stating that all operations will be conducted in
conformance with the Act, the rules issued by LARA, or other applicable state
laws and such operations shall be cultivated on the premises at any one time
not more than the permitted number of marihuana plants per the Act; and
         (b)   An affidavit stating that all growing shall be performed within
an enclosed, locked building for indoor grow or for outdoor growers that the
area to be cultivated must be fenced in and enclosed and the plants must not be
visible to the public without the use of binoculars, aircraft or other optical
aids and the enclosed area must be equipped with locks or other functioning
security devices that restrict access to the area. The fencing must be high
enough so that the marihuana plants are never visible to the public without the
use of binoculars, aircraft or other optical aid.
      (17)   A temporary marihuana event permit shall only be issued to a
person who also holds a valid marihuana event organizer permit from the
village, and a license from the state. The application shall slate the dates
and hours of operation for which the temporary marihuana event permit is being
sought.
   (H)   Upon receipt of a completed adult use marihuana establishment permit
application meeting the requirements of this chapter and confirmation that the
number of existing permits does not exceed the maximum number established by
this chapter, the Village Clerk shall route a copy of the application to each
of the following for their review and approval: the Police Department or their
designee; the Fire Department or their designee; the Building Department; the
Zoning Administrator and the Village Treasurer or their designee. Once
applications are verified by each department to be sufficiently complete and
comprehensive, and no sooner, the Village Clerk shall forward the applications
to the Village Council for review and approval or denial.
   (I)   No application shall be approved unless:
      (1)   The Fire Department or designee and the Building Department have
inspected the plans of the proposed location for compliance with all laws they
enforce;
      (2)   The applicant, each stakeholder of the applicant, and the
managerial employees and employees of the applicant, have passed a criminal
background check conducted by the Village Police Department;
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator has confirmed that the proposed location
complies with the zoning ordinance;
      (4)   The Village Treasurer or their designee has confirmed that the
applicant and each stakeholder of the applicant are not in default to the
village;
   (J)   When written approval is given by each individual or department
identified in division (E) above and the applicant has received the required
special use permit from the Planning Commission, the Village Clerk shall submit
the application to the Village Council for consideration of issuing a permit to
the applicant. All permits issued are contingent upon the state of Michigan
issuing a license for the operation under State Initiated Law No 1 of 2018,
M.C.L.A. § 333.27951 et seq.
   (K)   Permittees shall report any other change in the information required
by this chapter, to the village within ten days of the change.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   Adult use marihuana establishment permits shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance, unless revoked as provided by law and this chapter.
   (B)   A valid adult use marihuana establishment permit may be renewed on an
annual basis by submitting a renewal application upon a form provided by the
village and payment of the annual permit fee. Application to renew an adult use
marihuana establishment permit shall be filed at least 30 days prior to the
date of its expiration.
   (C)   Additionally, a municipal permit may be renewed by the village for one
year if (i) there are no uncured administrative and/or legal violations in the
prior year, including no taxes owed;(ii) the applicant has paid the annual
permit fee for the renewal period; (iii) any stakeholder changes have been
fully disclosed to the village; (iv) the applicant has paid and received the
renewal of its state license; and (v) the applicant is operational or the
establishment is under construction with a stated completion date.
   (D)   The renewal application for an adult use marihuana permit shall be
subject to the same scrutiny and evaluation process as the inaugural permit
application.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 117.06 PERMIT APPLICATION EVALUATION.
   (A)   The Village Council shall consider all completed applications received
from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   In its application deliberations, the Village Council shall assess
each application in each of the following categories:
      (1)   The applicant's experience in operating its medical marihuana
facility(ies) in the village.
      (2)   The applicant's record of compliance with all applicable marihuana
laws and rules in the state of Michigan and the ordinances of the village.
      (3)   As it relates to operation of a retailer or any other type of
marihuana related business, the applicant's type of service and product that
will be offered and the overall theme and atmosphere of the proposed marihuana
establishment.
   (C)   The Village Council shall assess each application within the
aforementioned categories and may issue a permit to the applicant if an
applicant has satisfactorily met all requirements.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 117.07 PERMITS GENERALLY.
   (A)   To the extent permissible, all information submitted in conjunction
with an application for a permit or permit renewal required by this chapter is
confidential and exempt from disclosure under the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act, 1976 PA 442, M.C.L.A. § 15.231 et. seq.
   (B)   Permittees may transfer a permit issued under this chapter to a
different location upon receiving written approval from the village. In order
to receive approval to transfer a permit location, the permittee must make a
written request to the Village Clerk, indicating the current permit location
and the new proposed permit location. Upon receiving the written request, the
Village Clerk shall refer a copy of the written request to each of the
following for their approval: Fire Department or their designee; the Building
Department; the Police Department or their designee; the Zoning Administrator,
the Planning Commission and the Village Council. No permit transfer shall be
approved unless each such individual or department gives written approval that
the permittee and the proposed permit location meet the standards identified in
this chapter.
   (C)   Permittees may transfer a permit issued under this chapter to a
different individual or entity upon receiving written approval by the Village
Clerk. In order to request approval to transfer a permit to a different
individual or entity, the permittee must make a written request to the Village
Clerk, indicating the current permittee and the proposed permittee. Upon
receiving the written request, the Village Clerk shall consider the request as
a new application for a permit and the procedures set forth in this chapter
shall be followed as for a new application.
   (D)   Permittee shall report any other change in the information required by
this chapter to the Village Clerk within ten business days of the change.
Failure to do so may result in suspension or revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-18-2024)
§ 117.08 MINIMAL OPERATIONAL STANDARDS FOR ALL MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The following minimum standards shall apply to all marihuana establishments
within the village:
   (A)   All marihuana establishments shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the Act and applicable Michigan law, and the rules of the
Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs as they may be amended from time
to time. It is the responsibility of the owner to be aware of changes in the
Act. The village bears no responsibility for failure of the owner to be aware
of changes in the Act.
   (B)   Consumption and/or use of marihuana shall be prohibited on the
premises of the establishment, except for temporary marihuana events, and a
sign shall be posted on the premises of each establishment indicating that
consumption is prohibited on the premises;
   (C)   The establishment shall be open, during regular business hours, to any
representative of LARA, state police officer, or village police officer, and
said individuals may enter the premises, office, establishments, or other
places of a business of a permittee, for the following:
      (1)   To inspect and examine all premises of marihuana establishments;
      (2)   To inspect, examine, and audit relevant records of the permittee
and, if the permittee or any employee fails to cooperate with an investigation,
impound, seize, assume physical control of, or summarily remove from the
premises all books, ledgers, documents, writings, photocopies, correspondence,
records, and videotapes, including electronically stored records, money
receptacles, or equipment in which the records are stored; and
      (3)   To investigate alleged violations of the Act, this chapter and
applicable Michigan law.
   (D)   The marihuana establishment shall be continuously monitored with a
surveillance system that includes security cameras. The video recordings shall
be maintained in a secure, offsite location for a period of 30 days and be
available upon request of the Village Police Department. The storage
establishment shall not be used for any other commercial purpose.
   (E)   The marihuana establishment shall secure every entrance to the
marihuana establishment and only permit those individuals described in the
chapter or the Act access to the premises.
   (F)   The marihuana establishment shall be maintained and operated in
compliance with all state and local rules, regulations and ordinances. All
marihuana establishments shall comply with applicable requirements of the
zoning ordinance, including obtaining and maintaining a special use permit.
   (G)   All marihuana shall be contained within an enclosed, locked and secure
building except that a marihuana grower may cultivate marihuana outdoors
provided the area to be cultivated must be fenced in and enclosed and the
plants must not be visible to the public without the use of binoculars,
aircraft or other optical aids and the enclosed area must be equipped with
locks or other functioning security devices that restrict access to the area.
The fencing must be high enough so that the marihuana plants are never visible
to the public without the use of binoculars, aircraft or other optical aid.
   (H)   Disposal of marihuana shall be accomplished in a manner that prevents
its acquisition by any person who may not lawfully possess it and otherwise is
in conformance with local and state laws and regulations.
   (I)   All necessary building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical permits
shall be obtained for any portion of the structure in which electrical wiring,
lighting and/or watering devices that support the growing, harvesting and
processing of marihuana are located.
   (J)   All persons working in direct contact with marihuana shall conform to
acceptable hygienic practices while on duty, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Maintaining adequate personal cleanliness;
      (2)   Washing hands thoroughly in adequate hand-washing areas before
starting work and at any other time when their hands may have become soiled or
contaminated; and
      (3)   Refraining from having direct contact with marihuana if the person
has or may have an illness, open lesion, including boils, sores or infected
wounds, or any other abnormal source of microbial contamination, until the
condition is corrected.
   (K)   Litter and waste shall be properly removed and the operating systems
for waste disposal shall be maintained so that they do not constitute a source
of contamination.
   (L)   Floors, walls and ceilings shall be constructed in such a manner that
they shall be cleaned and kept clean and in good repair.
   (M)   There shall be adequate screening or other protection against the
entry of pests. Rubbish shall be disposed of so as to prohibit the development
of odor and eliminate the potential for waste becoming an attractant, harborage
or breeding place for pests.
   (N)   Marihuana that can support the rapid growth of undesirable
microorganisms including but not limited to mold shall be held in a manner that
prevents the growth of these microorganisms.
   (O)   The portion of the structure storing any chemicals such as herbicides,
pesticides, and fertilizers shall be subject to inspections at any time and
approval by the Village Fire Department to ensure compliance with all
applicable statues, codes and ordinances.
   (P)   All building fixtures and equipment shall be maintained in a sanitary
condition.
   (Q)   Odor from operations shall not be detectable beyond the property line
of the marihuana establishment. This requirement does not apply to an outdoor
grower establishment.
   (R)   No marihuana establishment shall be located within 1,000 feet of real
property comprising an operational public or private elementary, vocational, or
secondary school in existence at the time of adoption of this chapter.
   (S)   Equivalent licenser; operation at same location. A person that holds
equivalent licenses with common ownership under the Acts may operate those
equivalent licenses at the same location provided the person complies with
Michigan Administrative Rule 420.205 and all other applicable statues,
ordinances and rule.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.09 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF GROWER ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The following minimum standards for grower establishments shall apply:
   (A)   The grower establishment shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the Act, and the general rules of the Department of
Licensing and Regulatory Affairs, as they may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   The premises shall be open for inspection upon probable cause that a
violation of this chapter has occurred, during the stated hours of operation
and at such other times as anyone is present on the premises;
   (C)   A grower establishment shall maintain a logbook and/or database
indicating the number of marihuana plants therein. Each marihuana plant will be
tagged as required by the Act;
   (D)   Except as otherwise set forth herein, all marihuana shall be grown and
contained within an enclosed, locked building. This requirement does not apply
to an outdoor grower establishment that meets state of Michigan requirements
and the requirements of this chapter;
   (E)   The dispensing of marihuana at the grower establishment shall be
prohibited;
   (F)   Grower establishments shall be free from infestation by insects,
rodents, birds, or vermin of any kind;
   (G)   Exterior signage or advertising identifying the facility as a grower
establishment shall be prohibited.
   (H)   All grower establishments shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   (I)   All outdoor growing sites shall also meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The area to be cultivated must be fenced in and enclosed and the
plants must not be visible to the public without the use of binoculars,
aircraft or other optical aids and the enclosed area must be equipped with
locks or other functioning security devices that restrict access to the area.
The fencing must be high enough so that the marihuana plants are never visible
to the public without the use of binoculars, aircraft or other optical aid, but
in any event, not less than eight feet high, topped with barbed wire. All
outdoor growing shall follow all state of Michigan requirements and guidelines
and shall provide lighting and security, including security cameras.
      (2)   The property must be zoned industrial, agricultural or in an un-
zoned area.
      (3)   There must be a building adjacent to the cultivation area where
drying, trimming and curing must take place.
      (4)   A site plan will be required for all outdoor growing sites showing
the property boundaries, setbacks, fencing, screening (greenbelt) lighting,
security/locking gates, location of driveways and buildings to be used for
drying, trimming and curing.
      (5)   The marihuana plants are to be set back from the fencing a distance
not less than 25 feet.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.10 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF PROCESSOR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The following minimum standards for processor establishments shall apply:
   (A)   The processor shall comply at all times and in all circumstances with
the Act, and the general rules of the LARA, as they may be amended from time to
time;
   (B)   All activity related to the processor establishment shall be done in
an enclosed locked building;
   (C)   A processor establishment shall maintain a logbook and/or database
which complies with the Act or applicable state laws;
   (D)   All marihuana shall be tagged as required by the Act or applicable
state laws;
   (E)   All marihuana shall be contained within enclosed, locked building in
accordance with the Act and the provisions of this chapter;
   (F)   The dispensing of medical marihuana at the processor establishment
shall be prohibited;
   (G)   Processor establishment shall be free from infestation by insects,
rodents, birds, or vermin or any kind;
   (H)   Processor establishments shall produce no products other than useable
marihuana as allowed by the state;
   (I)   Exterior signage or advertising identifying the establishment as a
processor establishment shall be prohibited; and
   (J)   All processor establishments shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.11 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF MARIHUANA RETAILERS.
   The following minimum standards for retailers shall apply:
   (A)   No retailer shall be open between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m.;
   (B)   All marihuana storage areas within a retailer must be separated from
any adult use customer areas by a permanent and locked barrier. No marihuana is
permitted to be stored in any area accessible by the general public or
registered customer/patients. Marihuana may be displayed in a sales area in as
permitted by the Act, and be in compliance with all federal, state and local
laws and regulations;
   (C)   Any usable marihuana remaining on the premises of a retailer while the
retailer is closed shall be secured in a safe that is permanently affixed to
the premises;
   (D)   Drive-through window on the premises of a retailer shall not be
permitted;
   (E)   The sale, consumption, or use of alcohol or tobacco products on the
premises is prohibited;
   (F)   No retailer shall be operated in a manner creating odors detectable to
normal senses beyond the boundaries of the building on which the retailer is
operated;
   (G)   The permit and state license required by this chapter shall be
prominently displayed on the premises of the retailer;
   (H)   All marihuana sold to adult customers shall be packaged and labeled as
provided by state laws;
   (I)   Display of signs that are inconsistent with state and local laws or
regulations are prohibited;
   (J)   It shall be prohibited to use the symbol or image of a marihuana leaf
in any exterior building signage;
   (K)   No licensed retailer shall place or maintain, or cause to be placed or
maintained, an advertisement of marihuana in any form or through any medium
within 1,000 feet of the real property comprising a public or private
elementary, vocational or secondary school.
   (L)   Certified laboratory testing results that meet the Act and applicable
state laws must be available to all customers upon request.
   (M)   All retailers shall comply with all applicable requirements of the
zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.12 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF SECURE.
   The following minimum standards for secure transporters shall apply:
   (A)   The secure transporter shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the Act and the general rules of the Department of Licensing
and Regulatory Affairs, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Consumption and/or use of marihuana shall be prohibited at a storage
establishment of a secure transporter.
   (C)   Storage of marihuana by a secure transporter shall comply with the
following:
      (1)   The storage facility shall not be open or accessible to the general
public.
      (2)   The storage facility shall be maintained and operated so as to
comply with all state and local rules, regulations and ordinances.
      (3)   All marihuana stored within the establishment shall be stored
within enclosed, locked building in accordance with the Act and the provisions
of this chapter.
   (D)   A secure transporter licensee and each stakeholder shall not have an
interest in a grower processor, retailer, microbusiness or safety compliance
establishment.
   (E)   A secure transporter shall enter all transactions, current inventory,
and other information as required by the state into the statewide monitoring
system as required bylaw.
   (F)   A secure transporter shall comply with all of the following:
      (1)   Each driver transporting marihuana must have a chauffer's license
issued by the state of Michigan.
      (2)   Each employee who has custody of marihuana or money that is related
to a marihuana transaction shall not have been convicted of or released from
incarceration for a felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or
the United States within the past five years or have been convicted of a
misdemeanor involving a controlled substance with the past five years.
      (3)   Each vehicle shall be operated with a two-person crew with at least
one individual remaining with the vehicle at all times during the
transportation of marihuana.
      (4)   A route plan and manifest shall be entered into the statewide
monitoring system, and a copy shall be carried in the transporting vehicle and
presented to a law enforcement officer upon request.
      (5)   The marihuana shall be transported by one or more sealed containers
and not be accessible while in transit.
      (6)   A secure transporting vehicle shall not bear markings or other
indication that it is carrying marihuana or a marihuana infused product.
   (G)   A vehicle used by a secure transporter is subject to administrative
inspection by a law enforcement officer at any point during the transportation
of marihuana to determine compliance with all state and local laws, rules,
regulations and ordinances.
   (H)   All secure transporters shall comply with all applicable requirements
of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.13 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITIES.
   The following minimum standards for safety compliance facilities shall
apply:
   (A)   Safety compliance facility shall maintain a logbook and/or database
which complies with the Act or applicable state laws;
   (B)   All marihuana shall be contained within the facility in an enclosed,
locked building in accordance with the Act, or applicable state laws and this
chapter;
   (C)   There shall be no other accessory uses permitted within the facility
other than those associated with testing marihuana;
   (D)   Exterior signage or advertising identifying the facility as a safety
compliance facility shall be prohibited.
   (E)   All safety compliance facilities shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.14 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF MICROBUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   A marihuana microbusiness shall operate the corresponding areas of the
microbusiness in compliance with the operational standards of a marihuana
retailer, a marihuana grower, and a marihuana processor as provided for in the
Act and the rules.
   (B)   Stakeholders in a marihuana microbusiness establishment shall not hold
any ownership interest, directly or indirectly, in a grower, processor,
retailer, safety compliance facility, or secure transporter establishment.
   (C)   A stakeholder in a microbusiness establishment shall not hold an
ownership interest, directly or indirectly, in another microbusiness
establishment.
   (D)   No marihuana microbusiness shall operate between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (E)   A marihuana microbusiness establishment shall comply with all
applicable requirements of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.15 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF TEMPORARY MARIHUANA EVENTS.
   (A)   A temporary marihuana event shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the Act, and the rules of the Department of Licensing and
Regulatory Affairs, as they may be amended from time to time; and the
applicable ordinances of the village.
   (B)   A temporary marihuana event permit shall only be issued to a person
who holds a marihuana event organizer permit from the village and a license
issued by LARA.
   (C)   A temporary marihuana event permit shall only be issued for not less
than a single day or up to not more than seven consecutive days.
   (D)   A temporary marihuana event shall only be held at a venue approved by
the village for the purpose of holding a temporary marihuana event.
   (E)   Smoking and vaping of any sort shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.16 MINIMUM OPERATIONAL STANDARDS OF MARIHUANA EVENT ORGANIZERS.
   A marihuana event organizer is not authorized to engage in the operations of
a marihuana establishment permittee without first obtaining the appropriate
permits from the village and licenses from LARA.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, §
117.99
§ 117.17 LOCATION OF RETAILERS, MICROBUSINESSES OR TEMPORARY MARIHUANA EVENT.
   No retailers, microbusiness, or temporary marihuana events shall be located
within:
   (A)   1,000 feet of real property comprising an operational public or
private elementary, vocational, or secondary school in existence at the time of
adoption of this chapter; or
   (B)   500 feet of a church or religious institution defined tax exempt by
the Village Assessor's office and in existence at the time of adoption of this
chapter.
   (C)   If not located in an Eau Claire industrial park, no adult use
marihuana establishment shall be located within 500 feet of a public park with
activities designed specifically for youth.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.18 ZONING DISTRICTS FOR ADULT USE MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All marihuana establishments, except a marihuana retailer, shall be
located only in an Industrial Zoning District as a special use, as further
specified in the zoning ordinance of the village.
   (B)   All marihuana retailers shall be located only in the Central Business
Zoning District, as a special use, as further specified in the zoning ordinance
of the village.
   (C)   No marihuana retailer shall be located within 1,000 feet of each
other.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.19 DENIAL REVOCATION.
   (A)   A permit issued under this chapter may be revoked after an
administrative hearing at which the Village Council by majority vote of members
present determines that any grounds for revocation under this chapter exist.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing and the grounds for revocation must
be given to the holder of a permit at least five days prior to the date of the
hearing, by first class mail to the address given on the license application; a
licensee whose license is subject of such hearing may present evidence and/or
call witnesses at the hearing;
   (B)   A permit applied for or issued under this chapter may be denied or
revoked on any of the following basis:
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Any conviction of or release from incarceration for a felony under
the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States within the past
five years by the applicant or any stakeholder of the applicant as measured
from the date of the application or the date of becoming a stakeholder,
whichever occurs later, or while licensed under this chapter; or any conviction
of a substance-related felony by the applicant or any stakeholder of the
applicant ever or while licensed under this chapter;
      (3)   Commission of fraud or misrepresentation or the making of a false
statement by the applicant or any stakeholder of the applicant while engaging
in any activity for which this chapter requires a permit;
      (4)   Sufficient evidence that the applicant(s) lack, or have failed to
demonstrate, the requisite professionalism and/or business experience required
to assure strict adherence to this chapter and the rules and regulations
governing the medical marihuana program in the state of Michigan;
      (5)   The marihuana establishment is determined by the village to have
become a public nuisance;
      (6)   The Michigan Marihuana Licensing Board has denied, revoked or
suspended the applicant's state license.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024)
§ 117.99 PENALTIES AND DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   The village may require an applicant or holder of a permit for a
marihuana establishment to produce documents, records, or any other material
pertinent to the investigation of an application or alleged violation of this
chapter. Failure to provide the required material may be grounds for
application denial, permit revocation, or discipline;
   (B)   Any person in violation of any provision of this chapter or any
provision of a permit issued under this chapter is responsible for a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of up to $500 plus cost of prosecution, 90
days imprisonment, or both, for each violation. Each day a violation of this
chapter continues to exist constitutes a separate violation. This section is
not intended to prevent enforcement of any provision of the state law by the
Village Police Department. A violator of this chapter shall also be subject to
such additional sanctions, remedies and judicial orders as are authorized under
Michigan law;
   (C)   A violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se. In
addition to any other remedy available at law, the village may bring an action
for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain, prevent, or
abate any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   All fines imposed under this chapter shall be paid within 45 days
after the effective date of the order imposing the fine or as otherwise
specified in the order;
   (E)   The Village Council may temporarily suspend a marihuana establishment
permit without a hearing if the Village Council finds that public safety or
welfare requires emergency action;
   (F)   The Village Council shall cause the temporary suspension by issuing a
suspension notice by majority vote of members present and voting thereon in
connection with institution of proceedings for a hearing;
   (G)   If the Village Council temporarily suspends a permit without a
hearing, the holder of the permit is entitled to a hearing within 30 days after
the suspension notice has been issued. The hearing shall be limited to the
issues cited in the suspension notice.
   (H)   If the Village Council does not hold a hearing within 30 days after
the date of suspension was issued, then the suspended permit shall be
automatically reinstated, and the suspension vacated.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 2-19-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No parent, guardian, or other adult having the charge or custody of
any child under the age of 17 years shall allow or permit said child on any
street, lane, alley, public park, or other public place, including business
open to the public, within the village after the hour of 11:00 p.m., unless
such child to be in the company and in the custody of parent, guardian, or of
some person over the age of 21 with written parent or guardian permission.
   (B)   No person, being the proprietor, manager, clerk, or other person in
charge of any store, bowling alley, pool, or billiard parlor, tavern, or bar,
or other place of business, shall permit any child under the age of 17 to
loiter or linger in said place of business after the hour of 11:00 p.m. unless
said child is in the direct charge and custody of some person over the age of
21 with the parent’s or guardian’s written permission.
   (C)   No child under the age of 17 shall be allowed or permitted to be on
any street, lane, alley, public park, or other public place within the village
after the hour of 11:00 p.m. unless said child be in the company of, and in the
charge and custody of, some person over the age of 21 with the parent’s or
guardian’s written permission.
   (D)   Exemptions from the above divisions:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 27A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   COMMUNICATION TOWERS
      
152.   LAND DIVISION
      
153.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   International Property Maintenance Code 2012 adopted by reference
   
150.02   Zoning adopted by reference
   
150.03   Enforcing agency for State Construction Code Act
   
150.04   Enforcing agency for Stille-DeRossett Hale Single State Construction
Code Act
   
150.05   Building setbacks
   
150.06   Lot regulations
   
150.07   Cutting, injuring, trimming, and removing trees
   
150.08   Artificial bodies of water
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE 2012 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the
Village Clerk and one copy of which is on file in the office of the Village
Building Inspector, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code as published by the International Code Council, Inc., be and
is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the village, in the
state; for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of
said Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in the ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   This section shall take effect 30 days after the date of its adoption
and legal publication.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 4-20-2015)
§ 150.02 ZONING ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The village zoning ordinance is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 1978-4, passed 8-14-1978; Ord. 2001-1, passed 1-15-2001; Ord. 2005-1,
passed 3-21-2005; Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-20-2015; Ord. 2017-2, passed - -2017;
Ord. 2017-6, passed 8-8-2017; Ord. 2019-2, passed 8-28-2019; Ord. 2021-2,
passed 5-26-2021; Ord. 2021-3, passed 5-26-2021)
§ 150.03 ENFORCING AGENCY FOR STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE ACT.
   Pursuant to the provision of the State Building, Electrical, Mechanical
Code, in accordance with Public Act 230 of 1972, § 8b(6), being M.C.L.A. §
125.1508b(6), as amended, the Building, Electrical, Mechanical Official of the
village is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibility of the village under Public Act 230 of 1972, being §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, as amended. The village assumes responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of said Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-15-2000)
§ 150.04 ENFORCING AGENCY FOR STILLE-DEROSSETT HALE SINGLE STATE CONSTRUCTION
CODE ACT.
   (A)   Enforcing agency designated. Pursuant to § 8b(6) of the Stille-
DeRossett Hale Single State Construction Code Act, Public Act 230 of 1972,
being M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6), the village hereby elects to administer and
enforce Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(6), and the State
Plumbing Code. The village shall also administer and enforce the respective
provisions of the State Residential, Rehabilitation, and Uniform Energy Codes
and all applicable laws and ordinances. A government official registered in
accordance with Public Act 54 of 1986 shall be appointed to receive all fees,
issue permits, plan reviews, notices, orders, and certificates of use and
occupancy. All personnel performing plan reviews and inspections shall be
registered in accordance with Public Act 54 of 1986.
   (B)   Publication. This section shall be effective after legal publication
and in accordance with provisions of the Act governing same.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 150.05 BUILDING SETBACKS.
   See the village zoning ordinance, adopted by reference in §
150.02, for building setbacks.
(Ord. 2001-5, passed 6-18-2001) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 LOT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A LOT, as used in this section is defined as follows: a lot which is a
part of a subdivision, according to the recorded plat thereof; or, a piece or
parcel of unplatted land containing 8,712 square feet and less than 17,424
square feet. Parcels containing multiples of 8,712 square feet shall be
considered two or more lots, depending on the dividend when divided by 8,712.
   (B)   Hereafter, there shall be built, erected, or moved on one lot no more
than one main building and one accessory building not used as living quarters.
   (C)   Any building built, erected, or moved which shall be in violation of
this section shall be deemed a nuisance per se.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to lots which are not used or intended
for use as living quarters.
   (E)   For lot regulations, see the village zoning ordinance, adopted by
reference, in §
150.02.
(Ord. 20, passed 8-3-1966) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 CUTTING, INJURING, TRIMMING, AND REMOVING TREES.
   No lighting company, telephone company, telegraph company, or any employee
thereof, or any person or corporation, shall cut, mar, injure, deface, trim, or
remove, or assist in cutting, marring, injuring, defacing, trimming, or
removing any trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, or flower beds upon the public
streets, parks, or other public places within the village without first
obtaining the express consent thereof of either the President, Marshal, or
Common Council. Such consent must specify the particular act to be permitted.
(Ord. 8, passed - -; Ord. 8A-2001, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 ARTIFICIAL BODIES OF WATER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quality of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation or organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
      HOLDING POND. Any pond, lake, lagoon, or pool with an area of 5,000
square feet or less into which are dumped, released, or made to flow waters
from any residence, business, institution, or industrial establishment, or used
for the temporary storage of water-carried wastes.
      LAGOON. Any pond, lake, lagoon, or pool with an area over 5,000 square
feet into which is dumped, released, or made to flow waters from any residence,
business, institution, or industrial establishment, or use, and which any pond,
lake, lagoon, or pool are used for the holding, settling, curing, or otherwise
disposing of water-carried wastes, washings, or water from industrial
processes.
      POOL. Any pond, lake, lagoon, or pool, with an area of 5,000 square feet
or less, into which are dumped, released, or made to flow waters which at the
time of introduction are suitable for swimming, bathing, or other human use.
      WATER-CARRIED WASTES. Any water dumped, disposed of, or released from
residences, business, institutions, or industrial establishments which have
been used in industrial processes, washings, and/or manufacturing including
those arising from the preparation, washing, or dispensing of food, the liquid
wastes from industrial processes, sewage, storm, surface, or ground waters.
   (B)   Holding pond. No holding pond shall be permitted within the limits of
the village unless the waters in said holding pond are exchanged every 72
hours. EXCHANGE shall be interpreted to mean the dumping from said holding pond
sufficient waters to constitute the entire volume of water contained in said
holding pond at any one time.
   (C)   Lagoons. No lagoon shall be permitted within the limits of the village
within one-quarter mile of any residence, school, or place of public assemblage
unless the legal and equitable owners thereof shall release to the owner of
said lagoon by instrument recordable under the laws of the state their right to
restrain said lagoon by legal action, including action for restraining of
nuisance and damages for nuisance: no lagoon shall be permitted unless it
contains one acre for every 21 pounds of BOD per day and shall not exceed at
any time over six feet in depth. Measurements of BOD shall be made by the owner
thereof and presented to the Village Health Officer at his or her demand, but
not less than once each week from May 1 to November 1, and once each month from
November 1 through April 30.
   (D)   Outer limits of lagoon or holding pond. Each lagoon or holding pond
shall be surrounded at its outer limits by a six-foot fence kept in good
repair, covered at the top with two strands of barb wire.
   (E)   Pool. No pool other than kiddie pools under one foot in depth shall be
permitted within the village limits unless it shall be chlorinated once each 48
hours during use or filtered by a recirculating filter.
   (F)   Permits. Nothing in this section shall be construed as granting a
permit or releasing the requirements of a permit under the provisions of Public
Act 261 of 1927.
   (G)   Effective date. This section became effective 21 days after adoption.
(Ord. 19, passed 5-12-1966) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, association, or corporation violating the terms of §
150.06 or failing to fulfill any of its particulars shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $100 or imprisonment for 90 days, or both.
   (C)   Any person, association, or corporation violating the terms of §
150.08 or failing to fulfill any of its particulars shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $100 or imprisonment for 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 19, passed 5-12-1966; Ord. 20, passed 8-3-1966)
CHAPTER 151: COMMUNICATION TOWERS
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Application for special land use permit
   
151.05   Public hearing requirements
   
151.06   Standards for approval of special land use permit
   
151.07   Special performance standards
   
151.08   Written notice
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Eau Claire
Communication Tower Ordinance” and may be referred to herein as “this chapter”
or “chapter”.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a procedure for the application,
siting, regulation, construction, and operation of towers, structures, and
related facilities that utilize the radio frequency spectrum for the purpose of
transmitting, rebroadcasting, or receiving radio signals.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLOCATION. The location of two or more wireless communication providers of
wireless communication facilities on a common structure, tower, or building in
an effort to reducing the overall number of structures required to support
wireless communication antennas within the community.
   FEASIBILITY OF COLLOCATION. Collocation shall be deemed to be feasible for
purposes of this chapter where all of the following are met:
      (1)   The wireless communication provider entity under consideration for
collocation will undertake to pay market rent or other market compensation for
collocation;
      (2)   The site on which collocation is being considered, taking into
consideration reasonable modification or replacement of a facility, is able to
provide structural support;
      (3)   The collocation being considered is technologically reasonable,
e.g., the collocation will not result in unreasonable interference, given
appropriate physical and other adjustments in relation to the structure,
antennas, and the like; and
      (4)   The height of the structure necessary for collocation will not be
increased beyond a point deemed to be permissible by the village, taking into
consideration the several standards contained in §
151.06.
   TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. All structures and accessory facilities relating to
the use of the radio frequency spectrum for the purpose of transmitting or
receiving radio signals. This may include, but shall not be limited to, radio
towers, televisions towers, telephone devices and exchanges, microwave relay
facilities, telephone transmission equipment building(s), and private and
commercial mobile radio facilities. Not included within this definition are:
citizen band radio facilities; short-wave receiving facilities; radio and
television broadcast reception facilities; federally licensed amateur (ham)
radio facilities; satellite dishes; and governmental facilities which are
subject to state or federal law or regulations which preempt municipal
regulatory authority.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 151.04 APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL LAND USE PERMIT.
   Special land use permit requirements are as follows.
   (A)   Permit. No telecommunication tower shall be erected in the village
without first having acquired a permit as described in this section.
   (B)   Application. An application shall be submitted by the owner of record
with the application fee as required by Council resolution. Such application
shall be submitted to the Village Clerk, or Council designee(s), who shall then
review the application for completeness, pursuant to the conditions contained
herein.
   (C)   Contents. In addition to the information required on the application
form, an application submitted under this chapter shall include:
      (1)   A statement describing the efforts by the applicant utilized to
determine the feasibility of collocation. If collocation is unavailable or not
practical, the applicant shall provide a statement which identifies the facts,
characteristics, and/or circumstances which render collocation unavailable or
technically not practical for the coverage area and capacity needs. Any such
documentation must be verified by a certified state professional engineer;
      (2)   A site plan prepared in accordance with the requirements found in §
152.04(B); and survey as required in §
152.05(C). The site plan shall so identify the zoning districts of all property
within two miles of the proposed site;
      (3)   An engineering drawing of the tower design signed by a certified
state structural or professional engineer verifying that the tower design meets
all wind load and soil load bearing requirements for the intended site;
      (4)   A maintenance plan, and any applicable maintenance agreement, shall
be presented and approved as part of the site plan for the proposed facility.
Such plan shall be designed to ensure long-term, continuous maintenance to a
reasonably prudent standard;
      (5)   The name, address, and phone number of the person to contact for
engineering, maintenance, and other notice purposes. This information shall be
continuously updated by the applicant during all times the facility is on the
premises;
      (6)   A list of all property owners within a one-half mile radius of the
proposed site;
      (7)   A map showing the locations, name, and address of the owner(s) and/
or operators of any other telecommunication towers within the village and any
other tower within a five-mile radius of the proposed site, identify any other
collocation utilized on each tower; and
      (8)   An application fee in the amount established for special use
permits along with a sufficient deposit to cover any mailing and publication
costs required for the public hearing.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 151.05 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   Providing all the above requirements have been satisfied, the Village
Council shall schedule a public hearing to be held no sooner than 28 days after
the Council meeting at which the public hearing was scheduled. All property
owners within a half-mile radius of the proposed site shall be notified by
first-class mail of the public hearing.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 151.06 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF SPECIAL LAND USE PERMIT.
   The following site and developmental requirements shall apply.
   (A)   The proposed site must meet all front, side, and rear yard setback
minimum requirements where not specifically addressed herein and any minimum
road frontage requirements that may be established.
   (B)   The use of guy wires is strictly prohibited. All towers shall be self-
supporting.
   (C)   The base of the tower shall be fenced with a six-foot high fence. Said
fence shall be constructed in conformance with the village fence ordinance.
   (D)   Telecommunication towers shall only be located in industrial
districts.
   (E)   Any such site which is approved shall maintain a separate access road
or driveway. No other use shall be served by said driveway or road.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 SPECIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Special performance standards.
      (1)   Tower must be set back from all property lines a distance equal to
its height, unless engineering plans and specifications have been verified by
the Village Engineer that the structural integrity of the tower will withstand
high winds and impacts, and the likelihood of a tower failure is minimal. The
applicant shall bear all costs associated with the village engineering review.
      (2)   Accessory structures are limited to uses associated with the
operation of the tower and may not be located any closer to any property line
than 30 feet.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 600 square feet of gross
building area.
      (4)   All buffer yard requirements within the village zoning ordinance
shall be otherwise satisfied.
      (5)   The division of property for the purpose of locating a wireless
communication facility is prohibited unless all village zoning ordinance
requirements and conditions are met.
      (6)   The tower construction plans shall be certified by a registered
structural engineer licensed in the state.
      (7)   The applicant shall provide verification that the antenna mount and
structure have been reviewed and approved by a professional engineer and that
the installation is in compliance with all applicable codes.
      (8)   All towers must meet the standards of the Federal Aviation
Administration and the Federal Communications Commission.
      (9)   Communication towers in excess of 100 feet in height above grade
level shall be prohibited within a two-mile radius of a public airport or one-
half mile radius of a heliport.
      (10)   No part of any tower or antenna shall be constructed, located, or
maintained at any time, permanently or temporarily, on or upon any required
setback area for the district in which the antenna or tower is to be located.
In no case shall a tower or antenna be located within 30 feet of a property
line. The applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a setback
variance.
      (11)   Metal towers shall be constructed, or treated with, corrosive-
resistant material.
      (12)   Antenna and metal towers shall be grounded for protection against
a direct strike by lightning and shall comply as to electrical wiring and
connections with all applicable local statutes, regulations, and standards.
      (13)   Towers with antennas shall be designed to withstand a uniform wind
loading as prescribed in the Building Code.
      (14)   All signals and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight feet above the ground at
all points, unless buried underground.
      (15)   Towers shall be located and designed so that they do not interfere
with telephone, radio, and television reception in nearby residential areas.
      (16)   Towers shall be located so as to allow maintenance vehicles to
maneuver on the property.
      (17)   The base of the tower shall occupy no more than 500 square feet.
      (18)   Minimum spacing between communication tower locations shall be two
miles to prevent a concentration of towers in the village.
      (19)   Height of the tower shall not exceed 300 feet from grade.
      (20)   Towers shall be artificially lighted only to the extent required
by the FAA, or by the Village Council, whichever is greater. Where possible,
considering all site restrictions, any such lighting shall not unduly interfere
with the peace and repose of the surrounding land uses, whether or not in the
same zoning district.
      (21)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum
extent practicable.
      (22)   No advertisement or identification of any kind, except as required
for emergency purposes, shall be displayed or erected on the property.
      (23)   The antenna shall be painted to match the exterior treatment of
the tower. The paint scheme shall minimize the off-site visibility of the
antenna and tower.
      (24)   Structures shall be subject to any state and federal regulations
concerning non-zoning electromagnetic radiation. If more restrictive standards
are adopted in the future, the antenna shall be made to conform to said
regulation within 30 days or the special land use approval will be subject to
revocation by the Village Council. All costs for testing and verification of
compliance shall be borne by the operator of the antenna.
      (25)   There shall be no employees located on the site. Occasional or
temporary repair service activities are excluded from the restriction.
      (26)   Where the property adjoins any residentially zoned property or
land use, the developer shall plant two alternating rows of evergreen trees
having a minimum height at time of planting of five feet on ten foot centers
along the entire perimeter of the tower and related structures. In no case
shall the evergreens be any closer than 20 feet to any structure. These trees
shall be maintained by the applicant, and dead trees shall be replaced during
the following planting season. Any necessary replacements shall also be a
minimum height of five feet at the time of replacement. These trees shall be
maintained by the applicant perpetually, and dead trees shall be replaced
during the following planting season.
      (27)   All new and modified wireless communication facilities shall be
designed and constructed so as to accommodate collocation.
      (28)   The site and tower shall be maintained in compliance with all
applicable laws, codes, and ordinances. The village may require landscaping or
other improvements to the site so as to minimize the aesthetic or other damage
the tower causes to the surrounding properties.
   (B)   Land division. Subject to
Chapter 152 of this code, the division of property for the purpose of locating
a wireless communication facility is prohibited unless all zoning requirements
are met.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   The Village Council shall issue a written statement within two weeks of
denial of an application made pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The tower shall be removed by the property owner within six months of
being abandoned. If the applicant fails to do so within six months of
abandonment, the special use shall be considered revoked. The village may, at
its sole discretion, enter the property and cause the demolition of the tower,
antenna, and any necessary structure(s). Prior to demolition, the village shall
provide written notice of demolition via first-class mail to the applicant not
less than 30 days prior to demolition. All costs, including attorney’s fees,
associated with demolition shall be placed on the tax bill of the property as a
special assessment.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment of up to 90
days and a fine of up to $500, or both. Each day a violation exists shall be a
separate offense.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to preclude the village
from seeking injunctive relief or any other relief as may be permitted by law
or equity to cure, preclude, or abate a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-18-2006)
CHAPTER 152: LAND DIVISION
Section
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Prior approval requirement for land divisions
   
152.05   Application for land division approval
   
152.06   Procedure for review of applications for land division approval
   
152.07   Standards for approval of land divisions
   
152.08   Allowance for approval of other land division
   
152.09   Consequences of noncompliance with land division approval requirement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Lot regulations, see §§
150.02 and
150.06
   Zoning, see §
150.02
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Eau Claire Land Division
Ordinance” and may be referred to herein as “this chapter” or “chapter”.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the State Land
Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, as amended, formerly known as the Subdivision Control Act), to prevent
the creation of parcels of property which do not comply with the applicable
ordinance(s) and said Act, to minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain
orderly development of the community, and otherwise provide for the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents and property owners of the municipality by
establishing reasonable standards for prior review and approval of land
divisions within the municipality.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
combination of any of them that hold an ownership interest in land whether
recorded or not.
   DIVIDED or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successor, or assigns for the purpose of
sale or lease of more than one year, or of building development that results in
one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that satisfies
the requirements of §§ 108 and 109 of the State Land Division Act.
   EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent; provided
all resulting parcels are accessible for vehicular travel and utilities from
existing public roads through existing adequate roads or easements, or through
access owned by the owner of the parcel that can provide each access.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Eau Claire Village Council.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001)
§ 152.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR LAND DIVISIONS.
   Land in the village shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the Village Council, in accordance with this chapter and the State
Land Division Act; provided that the following shall be exempted from this
requirement:
   (A)   An exempt split as defined in this chapter and the State Land Division
Act; and
   (B)   An applicant shall submit a preliminary drawing or map to scale of not
less than that provided for on the application form (one inch to 50 feet for
ten acres or less, one inch to 100 feet for parcels of ten acres to 40 acres,
one inch to 200 feet for parcels over 40 acres) and including an accurate legal
description of each proposed division, showing the boundary lines, dimensions,
and accessibility for each division from the existing or proposed public roads
for automobile traffic and public utilities, for preliminary review, approval,
and/or denial by the Village Council.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Village Clerk’s
Department on normal business hours before making any division either by deed,
land contract, lease for more than one year, or for building development:
   (A)   Completed application with any such additional information as may be
required thereon;
   (B)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided;
   (C)   (1)   A survey map of the land proposed to be divided, prepared
pursuant to the survey map requirements of Public Act 132 of 1970, being
M.C.L.A. § 54.211, as amended, by a land surveyor licensed by the state, and
showing the dimensions and the land descriptions of the existing parcel and the
parcel proposed to be created by the division(s), the location of all existing
structures and other land improvements, and the accessibility of the parcel for
vehicular traffic and utilities from existing public roads.
      (2)   In lieu of such survey map, at the applicant’s option, the
applicant may waive in writing the 45-day statutory requirement for a decision
on the applicant until each survey map and legal description are filed with the
governing body, and submit a tentative preliminary parcel map drawn to scale of
not less than that provided for on the application form including an accurate
legal description of each proposed division, and showing the boundary lines,
dimensions, and the accessibility of each division from existing or proposed
public roads for automobile traffic and public utilities, for preliminary
review, approval, and/or denial by the Village Council or other official
designated by the governing body, prior to a final application to the governing
body under this section.
      (3)   The governing body, or its designated agent delegated such
authority by the governing body, may waive the survey map requirement where the
foregoing tentative map is deemed to contain adequate information to approve a
proposed land division considering the size, simple nature of the divisions,
and the underdeveloped character of the territory within which the proposed
divisions are located. An accurate legal description of all of the proposed
divisions, however, shall at all times be required.
   (D)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act and this
chapter have been met;
   (E)   The history and specifications of any previous divisions of land of
which the proposed division was a part sufficient to establish the parcel to be
divided was lawfully in existence as of March 31, 1997, the effective date of
the State Land Division Act;
   (F)   Proof that all due and payable taxes or installments of special
assessment pertaining to the land proposed to be divided are all paid in full;
   (G)   If transfer of division rights are proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer;
   (H)   Unless a division creates a parcel which is acknowledged and declared
to be not buildable under §
152.08, all divisions shall result in buildable parcels containing sufficient
buildable area outside of the unbuildable wetlands, floodplains, and other
areas where buildings are prohibited therefrom, and with sufficient parking
spaces, on-site water and sewer hookup, and maximum allowed area coverage of
building and structures on the site; and
   (I)   The fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of the
governing body for land division review pursuant to this chapter to cover the
cost of review of the application and administration of this chapter and State
Land Division Act.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete land division application package, the
Village Zoning Commission or other official designated by the governing body
shall forthwith submit the same to the Village Council for review and decision.
The governing body shall approve with reasonable conditions to assure
compliance with applicable ordinances and the protection of public health,
safety, and general welfare, or disapprove the land division applied for within
45 days after the receipt of the complete application package conforming to
this chapter’s requirements and shall promptly notify the applicant of the
decisions and the reasons for any denial. If the application package does not
conform to the requirements of this chapter and/or the State Land Division Act,
the Zoning Commission, or other designee, shall return the same to the
applicant for completion and refiling in accordance with this chapter and the
State Land Division Act.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the governing body,
within 45 days of said decision, may appeal the decision to the Zoning Board of
Appeal, which shall consider and resolve such appeal by a majority vote of said
Board at its next meeting or session affording sufficient time for a 20-day
written notice to the applicant (and appellant where other than the applicant)
of the time and date of said meeting and appellate hearing.
   (C)   A decision approving a land division is effective for 90 days from the
final approval by the last Board to review the land split, after which it shall
be considered revoked unless within such period a document is recorded with the
County Register of Deed’s Office and a copy of said document is filed with the
Clerk’s Department and to give a copy of the approved land division to the
County Land Description Office accomplishing the approved land division or
transfer.
   (D)   The Village Clerk’s Department shall maintain an official record of
all approved and accomplished land division or transfer.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001)
§ 152.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS.
   A proposed land division shall be approved if the following criteria are
met:
   (A)   All the parcels to be created by the proposed land division(s) fully
comply with the applicable lot (parcel), yard, and area requirements. If the
village zoning ordinance including, but not limited to, minimum lot (parcel)
frontage/width, minimum road frontage, minimum lot (parcel) area, minimum lot
width to depth ratio, and maximum lot (parcel) coverage, and minimum setbacks
for existing building structures, or have received a variance from such
requirement(s) from the governing body;
   (B)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all the requirements of the
State Land Division Act and this chapter;
   (C)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate
accessibility, or an area available therefor, to a public road for public
utilities and emergency and other vehicles not less than the requirements the
applicable village zoning ordinance major thoroughfare plan, road ordinance of
this chapter. In determining adequacy of accessibility, the ordinance standards
applicable to plats under the village zoning ordinance and county road
commission ordinance shall apply as a minimum standard;
   (D)   (1)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the
division does not exceed a four to one ratio exclusive of access roads,
easements, or non-buildable parcels created under §
152.08 and parcels added to contiguous parcels that result in all involved
parcels complying with said ratio.
      (2)   The permissible depth of a parcel created by land division shall be
measured with the boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road right-of-way
to the most remote boundary line point of the parcel from this point of
commencement of the measurement.
      (3)   The permissible minimum width shall be as defined in the village
zoning ordinance.
   (E)   Where accessibility is to be provided by a proposed new dedicated
public road, proof that County Road Commission or State Department of
Transportation has approved the proposed layout and construction design of the
road and of utility easements and drainage facilities connected therewith.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001)
§ 152.08 ALLOWANCE FOR APPROVAL OF OTHER LAND DIVISION.
   Notwithstanding disqualification from approval pursuant to this chapter, a
proposed land division which does not fully comply with applicable lot, yard,
accessibility, and area requirements of the village zoning ordinance or this
chapter may be approved in any of the following circumstances:
   (A)   Where the applicant executes and records an affidavit or deed
restriction with the County Register of Deeds, in a form acceptable to the
village, designating the parcel as non-buildable, any such parcel shall also be
designated as not buildable in the village records, and shall not thereafter be
subject of a request to the Village Zoning Board of Appeals for variance relief
the applicable lot and/or area requirements, and shall not be developed with
any building or aboveground structure exceeding four feet in height;
   (B)   Where in circumstances not covered by division (A) above, the Zoning
Board of Appeals has, previous to this chapter, granted a variance from the
lot, yard, ratio, frontage, and/or area requirements with which the parcel
failed to comply; and
   (C)   Where the proposed land division involves only minor adjustment of a
common boundary line or involves a conveyance between adjoining properties
which does not result in either parcel violating this chapter, the village
zoning ordinance, or the State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001)
§ 152.09 CONSEQUENCES OF NONCOMPLIANCE WITH LAND DIVISION APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   Any parcel created in noncompliance with this chapter shall not be eligible
for any building permits, zoning approvals, such as special land use approval
or site plan approval, and shall not be recognized as a separate parcel on the
assessment roll. In addition, violation of this chapter shall subject the
violator to the penalties and enforcement actions set forth in this chapter,
and as may otherwise be provided by law.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$500 or by imprisonment in the county jail for not to exceed 90 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall
also be subject to a civil action seeking invalidation of the land division and
appropriate injunctive or other relief as permitted by law or equity.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 10-24-2001)
CHAPTER 153: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Sidewalks
   
153.01   Duty
   
153.02   Concrete
   
153.03   Grade
   
153.04   Specifications
   
153.05   Village Council deems sidewalk necessary
   
153.06   Notice
   
153.07   Keeping sidewalk in good repair
   
153.08   Keeping sidewalks free from obstructions
   
153.09   Account of expenses
   
153.10   Neglect; refusal to build/repair sidewalk
Public Property
   
153.25   Prohibition of animals, wagons, and the like on sidewalks
   
153.26   Obscene/indecent advertisements
   
153.27   Display of stallions, bulls, snakes, serpents, or reptiles
   
153.28   Tearing down, destroying, or defacing advertisements
   
153.29   Obstructing the sidewalk
   
153.30   Damaging a public lamp
   
153.31   Damaging property
   
153.32   Sale of goods or property on streets or street corners
   
153.33   Damaging drains, sidewalks, and the like
   
153.34   Fires
   
153.35   Speed limit
   
153.36   Parking
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   International Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference, see §
150.01
   Zoning adopted by reference, see §
150.02
SIDEWALKS
§ 153.01 DUTY.
   The owner of any lot or premises now or hereafter in the corporate limits of
the village shall, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, build,
rebuild, repair, and maintain sidewalks in the public streets adjacent to and
abutting on such lots or premises.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 CONCRETE.
   All sidewalks hereafter built or rebuilt within the village shall be
concrete, and of the width, material, and manner of construction hereinafter
provided and not otherwise.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 GRADE.
   All sidewalks shall be built and maintained on the grade and on the lines
now or hereafter established by the Village Council and shall be given a grade
of one-quarter of an inch to a foot from the street line to the curbline.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks shall be built to village specifications.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 VILLAGE COUNCIL DEEMS SIDEWALK NECESSARY.
   (A)   Whenever the Village Council shall deem it necessary that a sidewalk
be built or rebuilt, it shall so declare by majority vote, and shall cause the
same to be built or rebuilt. Said majority vote shall describe the lots or
premises adjacent to and abutting upon which said sidewalks are required to be
built or rebuilt, and shall order the owner of such lot or premises to build or
rebuild such sidewalks within 20 days from the time of the service of a notice
as hereinafter required, and if the owner does not rebuild or build such
sidewalk in the time specified, then the Village Police will cause such
sidewalk to be built and the expense thereof, together with a 10% addition
thereto, shall be charged to such owner and shall also be charged upon the lots
and premises adjacent to and abutting upon such walk.
   (B)   Whenever the Council shall determine that it is necessary to build or
rebuild a sidewalk, or whenever any person desires to build or rebuild the
sidewalk on any public street or alley, the Village Council shall then request
of such persons, or on the request of the Public Works Supervisor, to give and
establish on said street or alley a sidewalk line for at least the distance
that sidewalks are about to be built, by setting stakes not more than 25 feet
apart, said stakes to be set to designate both edges of the sidewalk, and also
to designate the grade of the sidewalk, and a record of the same shall be
entered in a book to be kept for such purpose, in the office of the Village
Clerk. It shall be the duty of all such persons, before building or rebuilding
any sidewalk, to obtain the proper grades and lines of such sidewalk from the
Village Council and shall build such sidewalk in conformity to such grades and
lines.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 NOTICE.
   (A)   When the Council shall order any sidewalk to be built or rebuilt, the
Planning Commission or the Public Works Supervisor shall give notice thereof in
the manner hereinafter specified to the owner of the lot and premises adjacent
to and abutting upon such sidewalk to be built or rebuilt, the same within 20
days from the service of such notice as hereinafter specified. Such notice
shall give the date of the resolution requiring such sidewalk to be constructed
and shall describe the lots, and premises adjacent to and abutting upon, which
the sidewalk has been ordered constructed, and shall notify the owners of such
lots and premises to construct such sidewalk within 20 days after service of
such notice, and shall in addition notify such owner that unless such sidewalk
is constructed within the time specified in such notice, then that the Village
Council shall cause the same to be constructed and the expense thereof,
together with 10% in addition thereto, will be charged to such owner and will
also be chargeable upon the lots and premises adjacent to and abutting upon
said sidewalks.
   (B)   The above notice shall be in writing or partly written and partly
printed, and shall be signed by the Village Council; and the Village Council of
said village may serve notice within five days by giving the same personally to
the owner or occupant of such lot or premises, if known and found within the
village, and if the Village Council serving such notice shall not, within five
days, find such person or persons within the village, then the notice shall be
served by posting the same in some conspicuous place on said lot or premises.
The officer serving such notice shall certify that the date and mode of
service, which certificate shall be deemed final: and in the office of the
Village Clerk, in a book to be provided for that purpose; and shall be kept a
record and a copy of all notices, filing names of all persons, and descriptions
of lots and premises, also date and mode of service.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 KEEPING SIDEWALK IN GOOD REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any lot or premises adjacent to or
abutting upon any sidewalk, now or hereafter constructed in the village, to
keep such sidewalks in good repair, free from breaks and holes, and maintain
such sidewalk in a condition safe for public travel; and to keep concrete walks
with even top; and should any such walk be or become broken, or in need of
repair, it shall be the duty of the Village Police at once to notify the owner
of said lot or premises to repair such sidewalk within 20 days after such
notice.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.08 KEEPING SIDEWALKS FREE FROM OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The owner of every lot or premises adjacent to or abutting upon any sidewalk
in the village shall keep such sidewalk free from obstruction, encroachments,
and filth and shall remove snow and ice therefrom, so that the entire width of
the walk shall be in a condition for public travel; and should any owner not
keep such sidewalk free from obstruction, encroachment, or filth, snow, and
ice, as herein provided, the Public Works Supervisor shall give such owner 24-
hours’ notice to remove the same. The notice required by this or §
153.07 shall briefly state what repair shall be made or work done, and shall as
near as may be, conform to the notice required in §
153.06(B), and may be served at once, either personally on the owner or by
posting the same on the premises, and record thereof shall be kept in the same
manner as required of notices for building and rebuilding walks.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.09 ACCOUNT OF EXPENSES.
   The Public Works Supervisor shall, at the next meeting of the Council, or so
soon thereafter as is practicable, after the construction, rebuilding,
repairing, or clearing of any sidewalk by him or her, or by or under his or her
direction, deliver to the Common Council, a verified account of the expense
incurred in building, rebuilding, repairing, or clearing each sidewalk to or
upon which such lot or premises is adjacent or abutting; such account shall
include a statement of the labor or services for which such expense was
incurred, together with a description of the lot or premises upon or in respect
to which the expense was incurred and the name of the person or owner, if
known, chargeable therewith. Whereupon, the Village Council shall audit said
bill. The Village Clerk shall cause such amounts as shall have been authorized
and ordered paid, as above stated, together with an additional 10%, to be
severally assessed against the several lots with respect to which such
expenditures were made and added to the next tax roll, and same shall severally
become liens on said lands and shall be collected in the same manner as other
taxes are collected and included as a part of the highway tax or fund of the
village.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 153.10 NEGLECT; REFUSAL TO BUILD/REPAIR SIDEWALK.
   If any owner shall neglect or refuse to build, rebuild, or repair any
sidewalk, or if any owner shall neglect or refuse to keep any sidewalk clear of
obstructions, encroachments, filth, snow, or ice, as herein provided, and the
village by any suit or other proceedings is compelled to pay damages or costs
to any person for injuries to any person or property on account of such neglect
or refusal, such owner shall be severally liable to the village for the amount
paid and the same may be collected by suit, if necessary, and service of any
such note, as herein provided, shall not be construed to release the owner of
the property from liability for injury to the person or property occasioned
directly or indirectly by the condition of such walk.
(Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 153.25 PROHIBITION OF ANIMALS, WAGONS, AND THE LIKE ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall lead, drive, or back any team, horse, ox, cow, or
other animal or wagon, cart, or wheel carriage, or draw, push, or otherwise
propel any handcart, wagon, or carriage on or along any sidewalk in the
village.
   (B)   This section, however, shall not be construed to apply to any bicycle
or tricycle operated by children under ten years of age, or to any invalid
chair or vehicle, or to any baby carriage.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 OBSCENE/INDECENT ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall post, paste, or fasten any obscene or indecent picture,
handbills, advertisement, or written or printed matter in any public place, nor
post, paste, or fasten any handbill, advertisement, or notice upon any
schoolhouse, church, or other public building in the village.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.27 DISPLAY OF STALLIONS, BULLS, SNAKES, SERPENTS, OR REPTILES.
   No person shall display or exhibit any stallion, bull, or any snakes,
serpents, or reptiles in any public place in the village.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.28 TEARING DOWN, DESTROYING, OR DEFACING ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall tear down, destroy, or deface in any manner any handbill,
advertisement, or notice, whether public or private, not forbidden by §
153.26.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.29 OBSTRUCTING THE SIDEWALK.
   No person shall obstruct the full, clear, and free passage of the entire
width of the sidewalk on any street with anything whatever, but this section
shall not be construed to prohibit merchants and others from occupying the
sidewalk to an extent of three feet in front of their respective places of
business for the purpose of displaying their goods, wares, and merchandising,
or the necessary use of same for erecting or repairing building adjoining
thereto.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.30 DAMAGING A PUBLIC LAMP.
   No person shall carelessly, willfully, or maliciously break, deface, mar, or
in any way injure or destroy any public lamp or any lamp placed in the streets,
or any lamp post in the village, or hitch any animal to any post, or shall
extinguish or cause to be extinguished, or light or cause to be lighted, any or
said lamps unless duly authorized to do so.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.31 DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   No person shall remove, cut, mark, mar, injure, destroy, deface, or assist
in injuring, removing, destroying, defacing, or marring, any gate, fence,
hedge, door, building, schoolhouse, church building, depot, house, public
building, or sign; nor shall any person cut, pluck, break, or in any way injure
or deface the trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, or flower beds within or upon any
public place in the village.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.32 SALE OF GOODS OR PROPERTY ON STREETS OR STREET CORNERS.
   No person shall sell any goods or property of any description, household
goods, except at public auction, on the streets or street corners, or on the
sidewalks within the corporate limits of the village, or shall make any outcry
or indulge in loud words or language directed to the public or any individual
thereby seeking to induce the public or any individual to purchase his or her
wares or enter his or her place of business, without a license, except auctions
arranged and sanctioned by the Village Council.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.33 DAMAGING DRAINS, SIDEWALKS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall injure or tear up any drains, sidewalks, crosswalks, or any
part thereof, or dig any hole, ditch, drain, or dig or remove any sod, stone,
earth, sand, or gravel from any street, alley, park, bluff, or public ground in
the village, or cause or produce the same to be done, without first having
obtained from the Council written permission to do so, or hinder or obstruct
the making or repairing of any public improvement or work ordered by the
Council.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.34 FIRES.
   No person shall burn or fire any leaves, off, or rubbish of any kind on any
streets within the village limits or shall build any bonfire of any kind on
said streets.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.35 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any event while upon any highway,
alley, or other public place within the village run at a higher speed in the
business district than 25 mph, and not greater than 25 mph in all other
portions thereof, subject, however, to the other provisions of subchapter.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.36 PARKING.
   All vehicles shall park, in the business district, within the spaces and
locations indicated by the pavement markings and parallel to said markings. No
vehicle shall park on the Main Street between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall permit any obstruction, encroachment, filth,
snow, or ice to remain on any sidewalk, contrary to the provisions of §§
153.01 through
153.10, and any person who shall build or rebuild or attempt to rebuild or
repair any sidewalk in the village not of the material or not in the lines and
grades as herein provided, or in any way not complying with the provisions of
§§
153.01 through
153.10, and any person who, in any other matter or thing, shall fail to comply
with the provisions of §§
153.01 through
153.10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction before any
court of competent jurisdiction, shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$100 together with the costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment in the county
jail not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
   (C)   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of §§
153.25 through
153.36 shall on conviction thereof be punished by a fine not exceeding $50, or
by imprisonment in the county jail or the jail of the village, not exceeding 30
days, or by both such fine and imprisonments in the discretion of the court,
together with the costs of prosecution the offender may be imprisoned in the
county jail, or in the jail of the village for a term not exceeding 30 days,
unless payment of such costs and fine be sooner made.
(Ord. 1A-2001, passed 10-15-2001; Ord. 5A-2001, passed 10-15-2001)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
II.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1989-3   5-8-1989    Electric franchise with Indiana Michigan Power Company.
1994-3   8-8-1994    Gas franchise with Utilicorp United Inc. doing business in
                     the state as Michigan Gas Utilities.
2003-2   5-19-2003   Cable television franchise with TW Fanch-one.
2020-4   8-17-2020   Electric franchise with Indiana Michigan Power Company.
2024-2   8-19-2024   Gas franchise with Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation.
                    
 
TABLE II: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Sale of land to Shawnee Specialties Inc. described as
                     commencing 112.6 feet west of the northwest corner of Lot
                     51 of Crystal Brook Addition in Pipestone Township,
                     Berrien County, Michigan, according to the recorded Plat
1976-2   4-14-1976   thereof, thence east 446.6 feet, thence north 23 degrees
                     36 minutes west along the railroad right-of-way 408.72
                     feet, thence south 66 degrees 24 minutes west 409.25 feet,
                     thence south 23 degrees 36 minutes east 229.92 feet to the
                     place of beginning, being in the Township of Pipestone,
                     Berrien County, Michigan.
                     Sale of land to Shawnee Specialties Inc. described as
                     commencing 112.7 feet west of the northwest corner of Lot
                     51 of Crystal Brook Addition in Pipestone Township,
                     Berrien County, Michigan, according to the recorded Plat
                     thereof, thence east 446.7 feet, thence north 23 degrees
1976-4   5-20-1976   36 minutes west along the railroad right-of-way 408.7
                     feet, thence south 66 degrees 24 minutes west 409.3 feet,
                     thence 23 degrees 36 minutes east 229.9 feet to the place
                     of beginning, being in the Township of Pipestone, Berrien
                     County, Michigan. Subject to an easement reserved to the
                     village, for sewer and water over the southerly 20 feet
                     and easterly 20 feet thereof.
                     Sale of land to Michigan Tube Company described as that
                     part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section
                     32, Township 5 south, Range 17 west, Village of Eau Claire
                     and Pipestone Township, Berrien County, Michigan,
                     described as follows, to-wit: commencing at the southwest
                     corner of Lot 50, recorded Plat of Crystal Brook Addition
                     to the village; thence north, along the west line of Lots
                     50 and 51 of said Plat, to the northwest corner of said
                     Lot 51; thence west 112.7 feet; thence south, parallel
1976-5   3-14-1977   with the west line of said Lots 50 and 51, 437.2 feet to
                     the north line of Love Road, 112.7 feet to the place of
                     beginning, subject to the franchise for laying and
                     maintaining gas pipes, and the like in favor of Michigan
                     Gas Utilities Company, a Michigan Corporation, as recorded
                     in Book 191 of Miscellaneous Records, page 63 and subject
                     to the easement for electric power lines in favor of
                     Indiana & Michigan Electric Company as recorded in Book 70
                     of Miscellaneous Records, page 61 and in Book 93 of
                     Miscellaneous Records, page 613.
                     Sale of the vacant land owned by the village located at
R 2024-4 9-16-2024   Third Street, Eau Claire, Michigan 49103, part of tax
                     parcel No. 11-35-0032-0005-04-2, consisting of
                     approximately 10.5 acres for $85,000.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite               Code Section
                            31.22,
15.231 et seq.              116.09,
                            117.07
15.231 through 15.246       114.04,
                            114.17
                            31.01,
15.261 et seq.              31.02,
                            31.22
24.201 through 24.328       70.01
28.609                      30.34
54.211                      152.05
67.4                        32.03
                            31.15,
125.31 et seq.              31.16,
                            31.25
125.271 et seq.             31.25
125.1508b(6)                150.03,
                            150.04
125.3101 et seq.            31.15,
                            31.25
                            31.15,
125.3801 et seq.            31.16,
                            31.24
                            52.17,
141.101 through 141.138     52.25,
                            52.27,
                            52.28
                            53.001,
324.3101 et seq.            53.002,
                            53.190
                            53.002,
324.11101 et seq.           53.141,
                            53.250
325.191                     52.30
325.192                     52.30
333.26421                   116.03
333.26421 et seq.           116.01,
                            116.25
333.2701 et seq.            116.03
333.27101 et seq.           116.03,
                            117.01
333.27101 through 333.27801 117.03,
                            117.04
333.27901 et seq.           116.03,
                            117.01
333.27951                   117.01
333.27951 et seq.           117.04
333.27953                   117.02
                            116.06,
333.6101 et seq.            116.10,
                            116.14,
                            116.15
484.2102                    114.03
                            114.01—
                            114.04,
484.3101—484.3120         114.07,
                            114.11,
                            114.17
484.2251                    114.04
560.101 et seq.             31.27
560.101 through 560.293     152.02
600.101 et seq.             10.02
600.8101 et seq.            71.01
600.8701 through 600.8735   10.02
                            116.10,
722.11 et seq.              116.14,
                            116.15
764.9a through 764.9e       10.10
764.9c                      30.33
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     50.01,
2015-4   9-21-2015   52.19,
                     53.046,
                     53.047
2024-4   9-16-2024   TSO II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
8            - -         150.07
8A-2001      - -         150.07
12           - -         110.01,
                         110.99
                         111.01—
14           - -         111.11,
                         111.99
                         90.30—
15           - -         90.36,
                         90.99
                         51.01,
21           - -         51.04—
                         51.08,
                         51.99
25           - -         Ch. 72 Schedule I
                         52.15—
201          - -         52.18,
                         52.20—
                         52.29
1976-1       - -         32.02
                         114.01—
2002-1       - -         114.19,
                         114.99
2007-1       - -         30.16
                         93.01—
                         93.03,
17           2-14-1966   93.05,
                         93.07—
                         93.08,
                         93.99
19           5-12-1966   150.08,
                         150.99
20           8-3-1966    150.06,
                         150.99
23           11-11-1968  71.01—
                         71.06
1973-2       7-10-1973   52.30
1973-3       11-27-1973  52.31,
                         52.99
1976-2       4-14-1976   TSO II
1976-4       5-20-1976   TSO II
1976-5       3-14-1977   TSO II
1977-1       5-9-1977    90.01,
                         90.99
1978-1       4-10-1978   52.22
1978-4       8-14-1978   150.02
1981-2       11-9-1981   51.09
1989-3       5-8-1989    TSO I
1994-3       8-8-1994    TSO I
1994-5       10-10-1994  52.02
1996-2       2-10-1997   32.01
1997-1       3-10-1997   51.09
1998-5       9-14-1998   31.01
1998-6       9-14-1998   71.06
1998-4       10-23-1998  31.02
2000-2       5-15-2000   150.03
2000-5       6-5-2000    52.01
2000-7       10-16-2000  51.03
2001-1       1-15-2001   150.02
2001-3       5-21-2001   90.02
2001-4       5-21-2001   110.02
2001-5       6-18-2001   150.05
2001-6       8-20-2001   10.02,
                         10.99
                         153.25—
1A-2001      10-15-2001  153.36,
                         153.99
                         153.01—
5A-2001      10-15-2001  153.10,
                         153.99
                         115.01—
7A-2001      10-15-2001  115.04,
                         115.99
27A-2001     10-15-2001  130.01
                         152.01—
2001-9       10-24-2001  152.09,
                         152.99
2001-10      11-19-2001  30.01
2001-11      11-19-2001  30.02
2003-2       5-19-2003   TSO I
2003-4       1-19-2004   70.01,
                         70.99
2004-1       9-20-2004   93.04,
                         93.99
2004-3       12-20-2004  30.15
2005-1       3-21-2005   150.02
2006-1       3-20-2006   112.01—
                         112.09
2006-1A      3-20-2006   112.10
                         151.01—
2006-2       4-18-2006   151.08,
                         151.99
                         113.01—
2006-3       4-18-2006   113.07,
                         113.99
2008-2       11-17-2008  30.30-
                         30.35
2009-4       - -2009     90.99
2009-2B      5-18-2009   92.01
2009-3       7-20-2009   70.01,
                         70.99
                         53.001—
                         53.004,
                         53.015—
                         53.019,
                         53.030—
                         53.032,
                         53.045—
                         53.058,
                         53.070—
                         53.073,
                         53.085—
                         53.090,
                         53.105—
                         53.120,
                         53.135—
                         53.146,
                         53.160—
                         53.170,
                         53.185—
2009-5       7-20-2009   53.193,
                         53.205,
                         53.206,
                         53.220—
                         53.223,
                         53.235,
                         53.250,
                         53.265,
                         53.266,
                         53.280—
                         53.288,
                         53.300—
                         53.311,
                         53.325—
                         53.330,
                         53.345,
                         53.360—
                         53.364,
                         53.375—
                         53.382,
                         53.999
2010-1       9-20-2010   150.04
                         91.01—
2011-1       8-15-2011   91.07,
                         91.99
2011-2       12-19-2011  31.15—
                         31.28
2014-1       8-27-2014   52.19
2015-1       4-20-2015   150.02
2015-2       4-20-2015   150.01
                         92.15—
1995-1A-2001 4-17-2017   92.23,
                         92.99
2017-2       - -2017     150.02
                         92.15—
2017-1       4-17-2017   92.23,
                         92.99
2017-5       8-21-2017   116.01—
                         116.17
2017-6       8-8-2017    150.02
2019-1       8-19-2019   116.01—
                         116.17
2019-2       8-28-2019    
                         90.15—
2020-1       3-16-2020   90.19,
                         90.99
2020-2       3-16-2020   93.06,
                         93.99
2020-3       3-16-2020   93.09,
                         93.99
2020-4       8-17-2020   TSO I
2021-2       5-26-2021   150.02
2021-3       5-26-2021   150.02
2022-1       8-29-2022   116.10,
                         116.14
                         117.01—
2024-1       2-18-2024   117.19,
                         117.99
2024-2       8-19-2024   TSO I
2024-3       2-19-2024   32.03
                        
 
