CITY OF FLINT, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 3821, passed 3-1-2012
(An asterisk ( * ) in the Table of Contents or the Code indicates new
legislation amends the code but is not yet incorporated or printed in the code.
Refer to the New_Legislation list for amendments to sections of ordinances or
newly enacted ordinances.)
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PART I. CHARTER
CHARTER
ADOPTED BY VOTERS: AUGUST 7, 2017
EFFECTIVE DATE: JANUARY 1, 2018
The Flint City Charter is available for viewing in PDF. Click HERE.
PART II. THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS *
Section
   
1-1   How Code designated and cited
   
1-2   Rules of construction
   
1-3   Catchlines of sections
   
1-4   Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances
   
1-5   Repeal does not revive ordinance previously repealed
   
1-6   Severability of parts of Code
   
1-7   General penalty; continuing violations
   
1-7.1   Attempt to commit a violation of a provision of this Code
   
1-7.2   Hate crimes
   
1-7.3   Abolition of distinction between accessory and principal
   
1-8   Enforcement of ordinances by issuance of appearance tickets by authorized
personnel
   
1-9   Preparation of list of persons authorized to issue appearance tickets
   
1-10   Appearance tickets
   
1-11   Presumption of misdemeanor
   
1-12   Definitions
   
1-13   Commencement of municipal civil infraction action
   
1-14   Ordinance enforcement officer
   
1-15   Establishment of Bureau
   
1-16   Authority of Bureau
   
1-17   Election of person served with violation notice
   
1-18   Schedule of fines for a municipal civil infraction violation notice
   
1-19   Penalties for municipal civil infraction citations
   
1-20   Designation of municipal civil infractions
   
1-21   Repeal
   1-22 – 1-130   Reserved
   
1-131   Representation by City officers, employees of persons before City
agencies
   
1-132   Participation in making decisions relative to contracts with public
entities or beneficial to officer or employee
   
1-133   Confidential information
   
1-134   Officers, employees not to use City personnel, resources, property or
funds for personal gain or benefit
   
1-135   Profiting from official position, authority or knowledge
   
1-136   Accepting employment or rendering services for private or public
interest
   
1-137   Waiver of restrictions
   
1-138   Notification of violation of ordinances required
   
1-139   Forfeiture of office
   
1-140   Political activities of City employees
   
1-141   Same — prohibited during duty hours; limitation on activities connected
with community groups
   
1-142   Disclosure of conflict of personal interest; sworn statement
   
1-143   Same — same — contents of statement
   
1-144   Same — same — when statement to be filed
   
1-145   Annual disclosure by elective officers of employer, business and real
property interests, gifts and other sources of income
   
1-146   Same — alternative to statement
   
1-147   Same — statement filed to satisfy requirements
   
1-148   Disclosure by candidates for elective office of employer, business and
real property interests and gifts
   
1-149   Same — alternative to statement
   
1-150   City employee to take a leave of absence without pay upon complying
with filing requirements for elective officer
   
1-151   City employee to resign from employment upon taking elective office
   
1-152   Compliance with Campaign Financing Act required
   
1-153   Copy of reports to County Clerk involving candidates to be filed with
City Clerk
   
1-154   Copy of reports to County Clerk involving city issues to be filed with
City Clerk
   
1-155   Failure to comply not to prevent seeking or holding office
   
1-156   Persons acting on behalf of another to influence official act of City
to file statement of representation upon request
   
1-157   Persons representing others in attempt to influence official act of
City required to disclose name of person represented upon request
   
1-158   Gifts to City officers or employees
   
1-159   Reporting expenditures incurred in course of attempting to influence
official acts of City
   
1-160   Form of subpoena by Ombudsman
   
1-161   Refusal to comply with subpoena prohibited
   
1-162   Ombudsman; sick leave, extended sick leave, continuing absence,
appointment of a temporary Ombudsman
   
1-163   Temporary Ombudsman; compensation
§ 1-1 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of the City of Flint, Michigan” and may
be so cited. The Code may also be cited as “Flint City Code.”
Statutory reference:
   Authority to City to codify its ordinances, see MCLA 117.5b
§ 1-2 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this Code, and other ordinances of the City, the
following rules shall be observed, unless the construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City Council.
   ACT. The word “Act” means Act No. 236 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1961,
as amended.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. “Authorized city official” shall mean a police
officer or other personnel of the city authorized by this code or any ordinance
to issue municipal civil infraction citations or municipal civil infraction
violation notices.
   BUREAU. “Bureau” means the City of Flint Municipal Ordinance Violations
Bureau as established by this chapter.
   CITY. The words THE CITY or THIS CITY shall be construed as if the words “of
Flint, Michigan” followed them.
   CODE. Whenever the words THE CODE or THIS CODE are used, they shall be
construed to mean “The Code of the City of Flint, Michigan.”
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. In computing a period of days, the first day is
excluded and the last day is included. If the last day of any period is a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the period is extended to include the next
day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
   COUNCIL, CITY COUNCIL. Whenever the term COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL is used,
the same shall mean the City Council of the City of Flint, Michigan.
   COUNTY. The words THE COUNTY or THIS COUNTY shall mean the County of
Genesee.
   DAY. The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
   DAYTIME, NIGHTTIME.  DAYTIME is the period of time between sunrise and
sunset. NIGHTTIME is the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   GENDER. The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   IN THE CITY. The words “in the city” shall mean and include all territory
over which the city now has, or shall hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the
exercise of its police powers or other regulatory powers.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   LAND; REAL ESTATE. “Land” and “real estate” include lands, tenements and
real estate and all rights thereto and interests therein.
   MONTH. The word “month” shall mean a calendar month.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. “Municipal civil infraction action” means
a civil action in which the defendant is alleged to be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. “Municipal civil infraction
violation notice” means a written notice prepared by an authorized city
official, directing a person to appear at the City of Flint Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed for the
violation by the schedule of civil fines under §
1-14 hereof, as authorized under Section 8396 and 8707(6) of the Act.
   NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied
to several persons and things as well as to one person or thing.
   OATH. The word “oath” shall be construed to include the word “affirmation”
in all cases where by law an affirmation may be substituted for an OATH, and in
like case the word “sworn” shall be construed to include the word “affirmed.”
   OFFICERS, DEPARTMENTS, ETC. Officers, departments, boards, commissions and
employees referred to in this Code shall mean officers, departments, boards,
commissions and employees of the City of Flint, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   OWNER. The word OWNER applied to a building or land, shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. “Person” includes any person, firm, association, organization,
partnership, business trust, corporation or company.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. “Personal property” includes every species of property,
except real property, as defined in this section.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The words “preceding” and “following” mean next before
and next after, respectively.
   PROCESS. “Process” includes a writ or summons issued in the course of
judicial proceedings of either a civil or criminal nature.
   PROPERTY. The word “property” includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Real property shall include lands, tenements and
hereditament.
   SHALL, MAY.  SHALL is mandatory and MAY is permissive.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK.  SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION includes a
mark when the signer or subscriber cannot write, such signer’s or subscriber’s
name being written near the mark by a witness who writes his own name near the
mark by a witness who writes his own name near the signer’s or subscriber’s
name; but, a signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve
as a signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so
sign their own names thereto.
   STATE. The words THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
   STREET. The word “street” shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues,
boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public highways in the
city.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. The words “tenant” or “occupant”, applied to a building
or land, shall include any person holding a written or an oral lease of, or who
occupies the whole or a part of, such building or land, either alone or with
others.
   TENSES. The present TENSE includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
   WEEK. A WEEK consisting of seven consecutive days.
   WRITING. Writing includes any form of recorded message capable of
comprehension by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement
or record is required or authorized by this Code, it shall be made in writing
in the English language, unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
   YEAR. The word “year” shall mean a calendar year, except where otherwise
provided.
(Ord. 3285, adopted 11-28-1994)
§ 1-3 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the sections of this Code printed in boldface type are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of the sections nor as any part of the
section nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of
such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
§ 1-4 PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are substantially the
same as those ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this Code,
shall be construed as a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 1-5 REPEAL DOES NOT REVIVE ORDINANCE PREVIOUSLY REPEALED.
   Whenever any ordinance of the City Council which repealed a former ordinance
is repealed, such former ordinance shall not be revived by the repeal, unless
there is express provision to the contrary.
§ 1-6 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or word of this Code
be declared invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
words, phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs or sections of this Code, since
the same would have been enacted by the City Council without incorporation in
this Code of any such invalid or unconstitutional word, phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph or section.
§ 1-7 GENERAL PENALTY; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the City or in any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, any act is prohibited, or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in this Code or any
ordinance or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto the doing of
any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful,
where no specific penalty is provided therefor, any person upon conviction for
the violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance or any such
rule or regulation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.00 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or by both the fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court, for each such offense. If an ordinance substantially
corresponds to a violation of State law that is a misdemeanor for which the
maximum imprisonment is 93 days, the City may provide, by ordinance, for a
maximum period imprisonment for 93 days. Each day any violation of any
provision of this Code or of any ordinance or of any such rule or regulation
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2625, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3285, adopted 11-28-1994; Ord. 3447, passed
1-10-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalties for violating ordinances, see MSA § 5.2082
§ 1-7.1 ATTEMPT TO COMMIT A VIOLATION OF A PROVISION OF THIS CODE.
   (a)   Any person who shall attempt to commit a misdemeanor offense
prohibited by this Code, and in such attempt shall do any act towards the
commission of such offense, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (b)   Any person convicted of attempting to violate any section of this Code
may be sentenced to pay a fine of no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed one-half of the greatest
punishment which could have been imposed had the person been convicted of
completing the crime for which attempt was charged.
(Ord. 3112, passed 8-28-1989; Ord. 3285, adopted 11-28-1994)
§ 1-7.2 HATE CRIMES.
   (a)   If a person does all of the following, the penalties for the
underlying crime are modified as provided in subsection (b) hereof:
      (1)   Commits a crime by violating a section of the Flint City Code;
      (2)   Intentionally selects the person against whom the crime is
committed or selects the property that is damaged or otherwise affected by the
crime because of the actual or perceived race, color, religion, national
origin, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, marital
status, political affiliation or disability of that person or the owner or
occupant of that property.
   (b)   Any person convicted of a crime under subsection (a) shall be
imprisoned for not less than 45 days nor more than 90 days, or fined not less
than $250.00 nor more than $500 dollars, or both.
   (c)   This section provides for enhancement of penalties applicable to the
underlying crime. The court shall direct the trier of fact to find a special
verdict as to all of the issues specified in subsection (a) hereof.
(Ord. 3246, passed 8-23-1993; Ord. 3762, passed 1-11-2010)
§ 1-7.3 ABOLITION OF DISTINCTION BETWEEN ACCESSORY AND PRINCIPAL.
   Every person concerned in the commission of an offense, whether he/she
directly commits the act constituting the offense or procures, counsels, aids
or abets in its commission may hereafter be prosecuted, indicted, tried and on
conviction shall be punished as if he/she had directly committed such offense.
(Ord. 3445, passed 12-13-1999)
Statutory reference:
   MCLA § 767.39
§ 1-8 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES BY ISSUANCE OF APPEARANCE TICKETS BY AUTHORIZED
PERSONNEL.
   The Chief Legal Officer may authorize certain City employees, other than
police officers, and Hurley Medical Center Public Safety Officers to issue
appearance tickets for the violation of city ordinances. Those so authorized
shall be listed by classification and such list shall be kept on file, subject
to public inspection, in the City Clerk’s office. Such list shall also state
the specific City ordinance violations for which said employee or Hurley Public
Safety Officer may issue appearance tickets. The Chief Legal Officer may make
such additions and deletions to said list as are necessary from time to time in
the manner specified in §
1-9 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2686, passed 1-8-1979; Ord. 3285, adopted 11-28-1994; Ord. 3791, passed
3-14-2011)
§ 1-9 PREPARATION OF LIST OF PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The Chief Legal Officer shall prepare a list of those persons, by
classification, to be authorized to issue municipal civil infraction notices,
municipal civil infraction citations or appearance tickets pursuant to §
1-8 of this chapter. Said list shall be submitted to the City Council and if
not rejected by said City Council within thirty (30) days from the date of
transmittal, the persons employed in the classifications appearing thereon
shall be authorized to issue municipal civil infraction notices, municipal
civil infraction citations or appearance tickets. If the list referred to above
is rejected in part, the persons employed in the classifications not rejected
shall be authorized to issue municipal civil infraction notices, municipal
civil infraction citations or appearance tickets and the persons employed in
the classifications rejected shall not have such authority.
(Ord. 2686, passed 1-8-1979; Ord. 3285, passed 11-28-1994)
§ 1-10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   (a)   Officers, employees and other individuals employed by and in the
service of the City who are authorized by State law and Flint City Code §
1-8 and §
1-9 to enforce the provisions of this Code, are hereby specifically authorized
in accordance with State law, to issue and serve upon a person an appearance
ticket. This authorization is contingent upon the authorizing person having
reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed a violation of this
Code. This authorization is not granted where the issuance of such an
appearance ticket is expressly prohibited by the provisions of this Code or
applicable State law.
   (b)   An “appearance ticket” as that term is used in subsection (a) means a
complaint, municipal civil infraction or written notice issued and subscribed
by a police officer or other authorized person as defined in subsection (a)
which directs a person to appear in the local District Court at a designated
future date and time in connection with the alleged commission of a violation
of this Code for which the maximum permissible penalty does not exceed ninety-
three (93) days in jail and/or a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00). The
appearance ticket shall be numbered consecutively, be in such form authorized
by the State Court Administrator and shall consist of the following parts:
      (1)   The original, which shall be a complaint or notice to appear by the
authorized person, shall be filed with the court;
      (2)   The first copy shall be an abstract of court records retained by
the court;
      (3)   The second copy shall be retained by the appropriate local
enforcement agency;
      (4)   The third copy shall be issued to the alleged violator.
   (c)   With the prior approval of the State Court Administrator, the
appearance ticket may be appropriately modified as to content or number of
copies to accommodate the law enforcement agency and local court procedures and
practices.
(Ord. 3285, passed 11-28-1994; Ord. 3535, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 1-11 PRESUMPTION OF MISDEMEANOR.
   Unless a violation of this Code is specifically designated in the text of
this Code to be a civil infraction, a violation shall be deemed to be a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3285, passed 11-28-1994; Ord. 3536, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 1-12 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases as used in this article, unless a different
meaning is clearly required by the context, shall have the following meanings.
   AUTHORIZED LOCAL OFFICIAL. A police officer or other personnel of the city
authorized to issue municipal civil infraction notices and/or citations.
   BUREAU. The Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau established by §
1-15.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  A violation of a provision of this Code for
which the remedy and/or penalty is prescribed to be a civil fine, or sanction
other than a criminal penalty. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser
included offense of a criminal offense or of an ordinance violation that is not
a civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or appearance
ticket prepared by an authorized person directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation
by that person.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION DETERMINATION. A finding that a defendant is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction by one of the following:
      (1)   An admission of responsibility for the municipal civil infraction.
      (2)   An admission of responsibility for the municipal civil infraction,
“with explanation.”
      (3)   A preponderance of the evidence at an informal hearing or formal
hearing.
      (4)   A default judgment for failing to appear at a scheduled appearance.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by an
authorized person, directing a person to appear at the Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau for the purpose of paying a civil fine and/or costs for a
violation which is prescribed to be a municipal civil infraction.
   REPEAT OFFENSE. A determination of responsibility for a second, or any
subsequent municipal civil infraction after there has already been a
determination of responsibility with regard to the same Code provision
committed by the same person within the past three years, unless some other
period is specifically provided with regard to a specific Code provision.
   RESPONSIBLE or RESPONSIBILITY. A determination entered by a court or
magistrate that a person is in violation of a provision of this Code prescribed
to be a municipal civil infraction.
   VIOLATION. Any act which is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful or
an offense under this Code, including affirmative acts as well as omissions
and/or failures to act where the act is required by this Code.
(Ord. 3285, passed 11-28-1994; Ord. 3537, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3645, passed 4-
25-2005)
§ 1-13 COMMENCEMENT OF MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.
   (a)   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the
issuance, by an authorized local official, of either of the following:
      (1)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the person alleged
to be responsible to appear in court;
      (2)   A municipal civil infraction notice directing the alleged violator
to appear at the Municipal Violations Bureau.
   (b)   The form of citations or notices used to charge municipal civil
infraction violations shall be in accordance with State law, shall name the
City of Flint as the plaintiff and for municipal civil infraction citations and
shall give a reasonable time after the citation is issued for appearance at the
68th District Court.
   (c)   The basis for issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation or
notice shall be as set forth below:
      (1)   An authorized local official witnesses a person violate an
ordinance, the violation of which is a municipal civil infraction.
      (2)   An authorized local official may issue a citation or notice to a
person if, based upon investigation, the authorized person has reasonable cause
to believe that a person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
         a.   For violations concerning the use, occupation or condition of
rental property both the landlord and tenant may be issued a municipal civil
infraction, in accordance with subsection (d), for the same offense concerning
the use, occupation or condition of the property and shall be individually
responsible for a violation of same.
      (3)   An authorized local official may issue a citation or notice to a
person if, based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person violate an ordinance, a violation of which is a municipal
civil infraction, the authorized local official has reasonable cause to believe
that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and if the
attorney for the City approves in writing the issuance of the citation or
notice.
   (d)   Municipal civil infraction citations or notices shall be served in the
following manner.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided below, the authorized local official
shall personally serve a copy of the citation or notice upon the alleged
violator.
      (2)   In a municipal civil infraction action involving the use or
occupancy of land or a building or other structure, a copy of the citation or
notice need not be personally served upon the alleged violator but may be
served upon an owner and/or occupant of the land, building or structure by
posting the copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building or
structure. In addition, a copy of the citation or notice shall be sent by first
class mail to the owner of the land, building or structure at the owner’s last
known address.
         a.   In cases involving properly licensed rental property, where a
citation is issued to a tenant, in addition to posting, a copy of the notice
shall be sent by first class mail to both the owner and the tenant of the
property.
      (3)   A citation or notice served as provided in subsection(2) above, for
a violation involving the use or occupancy of land or a building or other
structure, shall be processed in the same manner as a citation or notice served
personally upon a defendant.
      (4)   The copies of the citation shall be distributed as follows:
         a.   The original citation which is a complaint and notice to appear
by the authorized local official shall be filed with the 68th District Court.
         b.   The first copy shall be an abstract of the court and retained by
the court.
         c.   Second copy shall be retained by the authorized local official.
         d.   The third copy shall be issued to the alleged violator.
      (5)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
local official shall be treated as made under oath if the authorized local
official signing and dating the complaint does so immediately above the
following statement “I declare under the penalties of perjury that the
statements above are true to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.”
      (6)   Each citation shall inform the defendant that he or she may do one
of the following:
         a.   Admit responsibility for municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance.
         b.   Admit responsibility with explanation by mail by the time
specified for appearance, or in person, or by representation. If the defendant
is going to admit responsibility with explanation either in person or by
representation, the defendant must apply to the court in person, by mail, by
telephone or by representation within the time specified for appearance and
obtain a scheduled date and time for appearance. If the defendant admits
responsibility with explanation by mail, the court shall accept the admission
as though the defendant has admitted responsibility under subsection (d)(6)a.
above and the court may consider the defendant’s explanation by way of
mitigating any sanction that the court may order. If the appearance is made by
mail or representation the court shall accept the admission of responsibility
but may also require the defendant to provide further explanation or to appear
in court.
         c.   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
the following:
            1.   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the plaintiff.
            2.   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with
the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
            3.   Defendant must apply in person, by mail, by telephone or by
representation with the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing.
            4.   The hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal
hearing is requested by either the plaintiff or the defendant.
      (7)   The citation shall contain in boldface type that the failure of a
defendant to appear within the time specified in the citation or a time
scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will result in the
entry of a default judgment against the defendant on the municipal infraction.
Return of the citation with an admission of responsibility and with full
payment of fines and costs, return of the citation with an admission of
responsibility with explanation, or timely application to the court for a
scheduled date and time for appearance or hearing constitutes a timely
appearance.
      (8)   If a hearing is scheduled, it shall be an informal hearing, unless
a formal hearing is requested by the plaintiff or defendant and a confirming
notice shall be mailed by the court to the defendant to the address appearing
on the citation or supplied by the defendant. An informal hearing shall be
conducted pursuant to MCLA § 600.8719 and a formal hearing shall be conducted
pursuant to MCLA § 600.8721.
      (9)   The court shall schedule a formal hearing if either the plaintiff
or the defendant expressly requests a formal hearing. The request for a formal
hearing must be received at least 10 days before any hearing date appearing on
the citation. The party requesting the formal hearing shall notify the other
party of the request and must be received by the party at least 10 days before
the hearing date. A formal hearing may be requested in person, by
representation, by mail or by telephone. Witness fees need not be paid in
advance to a witness. Witness fees for a witness on behalf of the plaintiff are
payable by the District Control Unit of the District Court for the City of
Flint. There shall be no jury trial for a municipal civil infraction.
      (10)   If the defendant fails to appear as directed by the citation or
other notice at a scheduled appearance, at a scheduled informal hearing, or at
a scheduled formal hearing a default judgment shall be entered. A defendant who
fails to answer a citation or notice to appear in court for a municipal civil
infraction is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3285, adopted 11-28-1994; Ord. 3538, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3646, passed
4-25-2005; Ord. 3652, passed 6-27-2005)
§ 1-14 ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (a)   Pursuant to §§
1-7 and
1-8 ordinance enforcement officers may be appointed for purposes of carrying
out the duties and responsibilities specified in this Code for authorized
persons charged with the enforcement of this Code.
   (b)   An appointed ordinance enforcement officer is authorized to enforce
all provisions of this Code, whether or not any particular provision specifies
or designates a different enforcing official. Where a particular officer is
designated in any Code provision, that officer’s authority shall continue in
full force and effect, and shall not be diminished or impaired by the terms of
this section, and the authority of the ordinance enforcement officer shall be
in addition and supplementary to the authority granted to such other specific
officer.
   (c)   The ordinance enforcement officer’s duties shall include the
following: investigation of Code violations; issuance and service of municipal
ordinance violation notices and municipal civil infraction citations and
municipal civil infraction violation notices; appearance in court or other
judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings in the administration of this Code.
(Ord. 3285, adopted 11-28-1994; Ord. 3539, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 1-15 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUREAU.
   (a)   A City Municipal Civil Infraction Violation Bureau is hereby
established for the purpose of accepting admissions of responsibility in
response to municipal civil infraction violation notices.
   (b)   Payments made to the Bureau shall be retained and accounted for as
fines and costs, respectively, and shall be deposited in the general fund.
   (c)   The Bureau shall be at locations designated by the Chief Legal
Officer. All employees of the Bureau shall be city employees.
(Ord. 3285, adopted 11-28-1994; Ord. 3540, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3647, passed
4-25-2005; Ord. 3654, adopted 6-27-2005; Ord. 3773, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 1-16 AUTHORITY OF BUREAU.
   (a)   The Bureau may dispose only of municipal civil infraction violations
for which a municipal civil infraction notice has been issued and for which a
fine has been set by ordinance. Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent or
restrict the City of Flint from issuing a municipal civil infraction citation
for any violation or from prosecuting any violation in the 68th District Court.
   (b)   The limit of the Bureau’s authority shall be to accepting admissions
of responsibility for municipal civil infraction notices and the collecting of
fines and costs resulting from these admissions. The Bureau shall not accept
payment from a person who is denying responsibility for a municipal civil
infraction or admitting responsibility with explanation.
   (c)   The notices shall include the time of the alleged violator shall
appear before the Bureau, the methods by which an appearance can be made, the
address and telephone number of the Bureau and the hours during which the
Bureau is open.
   (d)   If an authorized local official issues and serves a municipal civil
infraction notice and the alleged violator does not admit responsibility and
pay the fines and costs, a municipal civil infraction citation shall be issued
and filed with the 68th District Court, with a copy mailed to the alleged
violator (defendant) as provided in ordinance no.
   (e)   The Bureau is authorized to accept payment of fines and costs in
response to municipal civil infraction violation notices, and shall not be
authorized to accept monies or admissions of responsibility in response to
municipal civil infraction citations.
   (f)   The Bureau shall not accept payment of a fine or costs from any person
who denies having committed a municipal civil infraction charged in a municipal
civil infraction violation notice.
   (g)   The Bureau shall not have authority or jurisdiction to determine, or
attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to an
alleged violation.
(Ord. 3541, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3648, passed 4-25-2005)
§ 1-17 ELECTION OF PERSON SERVED WITH VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (a)   Any person receiving a municipal civil infraction violation notice
shall be permitted to dispose of the charge alleged in the notice by making
payment of the fine and/or costs to the Bureau. However, a person shall have
the right to elect not to have the violation notice processed by the Bureau and
to have the alleged violation notice processed in the 68th District Court. The
unwillingness of any person to dispose of a violation at the Bureau shall not
prejudice the person or in any way diminish the person’s rights, privileges and
protection accorded by law.
   (b)   A person electing to have the alleged violation notice processed at
the Bureau shall appear at the Bureau and pay the specified fine and/or costs
within the time specified for appearance in the municipal civil infraction
violation notice. Such appearance may be made by mail, in person or by
representation, provided if appearance is made by mail, the person charged in
the notice shall have the responsibility for timely delivery of the fine and/or
costs within the time specified in the municipal civil infraction violation
notice.
   (c)   In the event a person elects not to admit responsibility and pay the
specified civil fine and/or costs prescribed for the respective violation
notice, a municipal civil infraction citation may be issued. The authorized
local official is not required to issue a municipal civil infraction citation
notice as a precondition of issuance of a citation.
(Ord. 3542, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3649, passed 4-25-2005; Ord. 3655, adopted 6-
27-2005)
§ 1-18 SCHEDULE OF FINES FOR A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (a)   A schedule of civil fines payable to the Bureau by persons served with
municipal civil infraction violation notices is hereby established.
   (b)   The fines for the violations of the Code sections listed in § 1-20(a)
shall be as follows:
 
Offense                      Fine
First Offense:               $25.00
Second Offense:              $50.00
Third or Subsequent Offense: $150.00
 
   (c)   The fines for the violations of the Code sections listed in §
1-20(b) shall be as follows:
      (1)   Up to $5,000.00 per occurrence, plus costs and other sanctions for
each offense.
(Ord. 3543, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3774, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 1-19 PENALTIES FOR MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS.
   (a)   The following civil fines shall apply when there has been a
determination of responsibility for a municipal civil infraction citation,
unless a different fine is specified within a particular Code provision.
      (1)   First offense. The civil fine for a first offense violation shall
be no less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), plus costs and other
sanctions, for each offense.
      (2)   Repeat offense. The civil fine for any offense which is a repeat
offense shall be no less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), plus costs
and other sanctions for each offense.
      (3)   Certain violations as outlined in
Chapter 46 may be punishable by up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
violation, per day, plus costs and other sanctions for each offense.
   (b)   In addition to ordering a defendant determined to be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction citation to pay a civil fine, costs, damages and
expenses, the judge or magistrate shall be authorized to issue any judgment,
writ or order necessary to enforce this Code, enjoin a violation of this Code
and/or abate a violation of this Code.
      (1)   A judge or magistrate shall issue an order to enforce this Code,
enjoin a violation of this Code and/or abate a violation of this Code, and
shall order the defendant to pay all costs associated with enforcement of this
Code, enjoining a violation of this Code and/or abating a violation of this
Code, for any defendant determined responsible for a municipal civil
infraction.
      (2)   Upon a written ex parte motion with affidavit a judge or magistrate
shall be authorized to issue an order to enforce this Code, to enjoin a
violation of this Code and/or abate a violation of this Code prior to a
determination of responsibility.
         a.   A defendant shall be required to pay all costs associated with
the enforcement of this Code, enjoining a violation of this Code and/or
abatement of a violation of this Code, only if the defendant is determined
responsible.
   (c)   Each violation, and each day upon which any such violation shall
continue to exist, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be considered
a continuing violation.
   (d)   A judge or magistrate is authorized to order any remedies provided for
in this Code along with any equitable or other remedies available by law.
   (e)   The judge or magistrate shall be authorized to impose fines, costs,
damages and/or sanctions as provided by law.
   (f)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall not be a lesser included
offense of a criminal offense or of an ordinance violation which is not a civil
infraction.
   (g)   For violations of an owner or occupant of the subject property
concerning the use, condition, occupation of land, building or other structure,
fines, costs, damages and/or sanctions which are delinquent shall be a lien
against the property, and assigned to the City of Flint’s tax roll.
      (1)   Upon a finding of responsibility, a defendant shall be immediately
responsible for all fines and costs, unless the court orders a longer time, but
in no case shall a defendant have longer than 90 days from the time of the
finding of responsibility to make full payment.
      (2)   If a defendant has not made full payment within 30 days after the
date on which payment is due under section (g)(1), the payment shall be
considered delinquent.
      (3)   In a municipal civil infraction action brought for a violation
involving the use, occupation, condition of land, a building or other structure
where the payment is delinquent, the City of Flint shall record the lien
against the property which is the subject matter of the violation by recording
a copy of the court order requiring payment of the fines, costs, damages and/or
sanctions with the Genesee County Register of Deeds. Such order or judgment
shall include a legal description of the property.
      (4)   The court order recorded with the Genesee County Register of Deeds
shall constitute notice of the pendency of the lien. In addition, a written
notice of the lien shall be sent by the City of Flint by first class mail to
the owner of record of the land, building, or structure at the owner’s last
known address.
      (5)   The lien may be enforced and discharged by the City of Flint in the
manner prescribed by its Charter, the General Property Tax Act, 1896 PA 206,,
MCLA 211.1 to 211.157, or by ordinance. However the property is not subject to
sale under the General Property Tax Act, 1896 PA 206, MCLA 211.1 to 211.157,
for delinquent property taxes or under this ordinance.
      (6)   A lien created under this section has priority over any other lien
unless one or more of the following apply:
         a.   The other lien is a lien for taxes or special assessments.
         b.   The other lien is created before May 1, 1994.
         c.   Federal law provides that the other lien has priority.
         d.   The other lien is recorded before the lien under this section.
      (7)   A political subdivision may institute an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction for the collection of the judgment imposed by a court
order for a municipal civil infraction. However, an attempt by the City of
Flint to collect the judgment by process does not invalidate or waive the lien
upon the land, building or structure.
      (8)   A lien provided for by this section shall not continue for a period
of longer than five (5) years after a copy of the court order imposing a fine,
costs or assessment is recorded, unless within that time an action to enforce
the lien is commenced.
      (9)   If a defendant defaults in the payment of a civil fine, costs,
assessment or if applicable, or any installment, as ordered pursuant to this
section that does not deal with property and therefore is not subject to the
lien procedure, that defendant shall be subject to civil contempt procedures as
outlined in MCLA 600.8729.
(Ord. 3544, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3650, passed 4-25-2005; Ord. 3656, adopted 6-
27-2005; Ord. 3729, passed 10-27-2008)
§ 1-20 DESIGNATION OF MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   Violation of the following sections of this Code or the violation of any
regulation adopted through these Code provisions shall be deemed to be a
municipal civil infraction which shall subject the violator to the civil fines
and penalties as provided in this chapter:
   (a)   Sections
11-1,
11-2,
11-10,
11-24,
12-2,
12-11,
12-19,
12-25,
12-39,
12-43,
12-48,
12-49.2,
12-52,
12-53.1,
12-54.1,
12-54.2,
12-62.1,
12-63,
12-67.1,
12-67.2,
12-67.3.2,
12-67.3.4,
12-67.3.5,
12-67.3.6,
12-67.3.7,
12-67.3.8,
12-67.3.9,
12-67.3.10,
12-67.3.11,
12-67.3.12,
12-67.3.13,
12-82,
16-1,
17-2,
17-4,
17-5,
17-6,
22-1,
24-1,
30-3,
30-4,
30-7,
30-9,
30-11,
30-12,
30-13,
30-14,
30-15,
30-18,
30-20,
30-21,
30-22,
30-23,
30-25,
30-26,
31-48.1,
36-1,
39-5,
39-6,
39-7,
39-9,
39-12,
39-13,
39-14,
39-18,
39-18.1,
39-19,
39-20,
39-20.1,
39-21 and
42-47(b).
   (b)   Sections
46-127,
46-128,
46-129,
46-131,
46-132,
46-139,
46-145,
46-146,
46-147,
46-149,
46-150,
46-151,
46-153,
46-154,
46-155,
46-170,
46-174 and
46-175.
(Ord. 3545, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3775, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 1-21 REPEAL.
   (a)   Repeal. All ordinance provisions inconsistent with the provisions
contained in §§
1-10 through
1-21 are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 3546, passed 6-9-2004)
§§ 1-22 – 1-130 RESERVED.
§ 1-131 REPRESENTATION BY CITY OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES OF PERSONS BEFORE CITY
AGENCIES.
   No officer or employee of the City shall represent another person before any
agency of the city other than in the course of carrying out the duties and
responsibilities of his office or employment or pursuant to duties assigned by
a municipal employee union. Each elected official shall be the sole judge of
the duties and responsibilities of his office.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978; Ord. 2695, passed 2-18-1979)
§ 1-132 PARTICIPATION IN MAKING DECISIONS RELATIVE TO CONTRACTS WITH PUBLIC
ENTITIES OR BENEFICIAL TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE.
   No City officer or employee shall make or participate in making any decision
contrary to the provisions of Act 317 of the Public Acts of 1968, being MCLA §§
15.321 et seq., and MSA §§ 4.1700(51) et seq., regulating conduct of public
servants in respect to contracts with public entities. No City officer or
employee shall make or participate in making any other decision having
knowledge that the decision will substantially benefit himself or herself,
members of his household or a business with which he is associated, in a manner
different from the benefit to the public or a broad segment of the public. This
restriction will not prevent a City officer from making or participating in the
making of a governmental decision to the extent that the officer’s
participation is legally required for the action or decision to be made either
because the official is designated by applicable law to make the decision or
because there would be so few persons eligible to vote that the decision could
not otherwise be made.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-133 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee shall divulge to any unauthorized person,
confidential information acquired in the course of employment in advance of the
time prescribed for its authorized release to the public.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-134 OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES NOT TO USE CITY PERSONNEL, RESOURCES, PROPERTY OR
FUNDS FOR PERSONAL GAIN OR BENEFIT.
   Every officer and employee shall use personnel resources, property, and
funds under his official care and control solely in accordance with prescribed
official regulatory procedures and not for personal gain or benefit.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-135 PROFITING FROM OFFICIAL POSITION, AUTHORITY OR KNOWLEDGE.
   No officer or employee shall engage in a business transaction in which he
may profit from his official position or authority or benefit financially from
confidential information which he has obtained or may obtain by reason of such
position or authority.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-136 ACCEPTING EMPLOYMENT OR RENDERING SERVICES FOR PRIVATE OR PUBLIC
INTEREST.
   No officer or employee shall engage in or accept employment or render
services for any private or public interest when that employment or service is
incompatible or in conflict with discharge of his official duties or when that
employment may tend to impair his independence of judgment or action in the
performance of his official duties.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-137 WAIVER OF RESTRICTIONS.
   Unless otherwise prohibited by State law or the Charter, the City Council
may waive any of the restrictions of this ordinance on a case-by-case basis for
good cause shown after receiving the opinion of the Standards of Conduct Board.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-138 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION OF ORDINANCES REQUIRED. 
   Any officer or employee who becomes aware of information, in the course of
his official duties, regarding conduct which may constitute a violation of any
ordinance adopted under Section
1-602 of the Charter, shall furnish the information forthwith to the office of
the Ombudsman.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978; Ord. 2664, passed 9-25-1978)
§ 1-139 FORFEITURE OF OFFICE.
   Conviction of violation of any section of this article shall result in the
forfeiture of the office of any appointed officer.
(Ord. 2637, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-140 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council finds:
   (a)   That numerous City employees are assigned to appear before block clubs
and other community groups as part of their official duties;
   (b)   That the existence of these official duties does not restrict the
rights of the employees to engage in political activity;
   (c)   That the members of the public are entitled to know on each occasion
whether the employee is acting as part of his or her official duties or in a
private capacity;
   (d)   That the confusion between official duties and private activities can
cause a loss of public confidence in the representatives of the City;
   (e)   That it is the responsibility of the employee to make clear the role
he or she is performing;
   (f)   And hat the employee may obtain guidance from the Standards of Conduct
Board whenever questions of interpretation of this ordinance and other laws
arise.
(Ord. 2856, passed 10-11-1982)
§ 1-141 SAME — PROHIBITED DURING DUTY HOURS; LIMITATION ON ACTIVITIES CONNECTED
WITH COMMUNITY GROUPS.
   (a)   A City employee is prohibited from being actively engaged in the
political activities described in Section 3 of Act 169 of the Public Acts of
1976, as amended, being MCLA 15.404, during the hours when that person is being
compensated by the City of Flint for the performance of his or her duties as a
City employee.
   (b)   A City employee who is compensated by the City of Flint for duties
performed in connection with block clubs and other community groups outside of
normal City business hours is prohibited from engaging in political activities
described in Section 3 of that act if such activities are performed in
connection with community groups that the city employee was compensated for
working with on behalf of the City and if there is any basis for the appearance
that the political activity may be part of the employee’s official duties.
   (c)   There is no basis for the appearance that the political activity is
part of the employee’s official duties if more than two years have expired
since the most recent time the employee contacted members of that community
group as part of duties for which he or she was compensated by the City of
Flint, if the employee is on a leave of absence, or if an announcement is made
during the proceedings of the group that the employee is not representing the
City of Flint.
(Ord. 2856, passed 10-11-1982)
§ 1-142 DISCLOSURE OF CONFLICT OF PERSONAL INTEREST; SWORN STATEMENT.
   Every officer and employee shall file a sworn statement with the City Clerk
whenever the officer or employee has made or participated, or was required to
make or participate, in making a governmental decision having knowledge that
the decision will provide a benefit to the officer or employee or his business
associate, spouse, son, daughter, parent, grandparent, brother, sister, or any
person who resides or at some time resided in the same household as the officer
or employee. No declaration need be made under this Section unless the benefit
is of more than a de minimis nature which is distinguishable from the benefits
to the public or a broad segment of the public.
(Ord. 2636, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-143 SAME — SAME — CONTENTS OF STATEMENT.
   The sworn statement shall explain how the officer or employee was able to
participate in the decision objectively and in the public interest or
explaining the basis for the abstention from acting.
(Ord. 2636, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-144 SAME — SAME — WHEN STATEMENT TO BE FILED.
   The sworn statement required by this ordinance must be filed no later than
five (5) days after the governmental decision unless substantially the same
information was previously disclosed in a sworn statement filed with the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 2636, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-145 ANNUAL DISCLOSURE BY ELECTIVE OFFICERS OF EMPLOYER, BUSINESS AND REAL
PROPERTY INTERESTS, GIFTS AND OTHER SOURCES OF INCOME.
   Every elective officer shall, on or before the first day of July of each
year, file a sworn statement with the City Clerk which shall list the following
information:
   (a)   The name of every employer who has reported earnings of the elective
official for federal income tax purposes during the employee’s previous taxable
year.
   (b)   The source of certain earnings from self- employment to the extent
that the amount received from single sources during the elective official’s
previous taxable year exceeded the amount of annual compensation provided for a
member of the City Council during the current year. If the disclosure of the
name of a person would violate a professional confidence, the elective official
shall indicate that the information is privileged and shall place the
privileged information in a sealed envelope in the custody of the City Clerk
where it shall be kept for one year and one day before being destroyed. The
envelope shall never be unsealed unless so ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (c)   The name of every corporation or other business in which the elective
officer is a director or officer, or has an interest worth more than
$25,000.00.
   (d)   The address or legal description of every parcel of land within the
City of Flint valued at more than $2,500.00 in which the elective officer has
an interest.
   (e)   The source of loans of more than $1,000.00 or gifts of more than
$100.00 received during the previous 365 days from persons other than persons
who reside or at some time resided in the same household as the elective
officer and other than State recognized lending institutions in the case of
loans.
(Ord. 2635, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-146 SAME — ALTERNATIVE TO STATEMENT.
   Nothing contained in this ordinance shall be interpreted to require any
person to report campaign contributions to the City Clerk or to disclose the
actual value of financial interests, sources of income or gifts which are
mentioned in the annual statement. As an alternative to filing a statement
listing the information required by §
1-145(a), (b) and (c), an elected official may file a copy of the federal
income tax return covering the elected official’s most recent taxable year.
(Ord. 2635, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-147 SAME — STATEMENT FILED TO SATISFY REQUIREMENTS.
   A statement filed pursuant to §
1-148 of the Flint City Code by a City elective officer who is a candidate for
City elective office shall satisfy the requirements of §
1-146.
(Ord. 2635, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-148 DISCLOSURE BY CANDIDATES FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE OF EMPLOYER, BUSINESS AND
REAL PROPERTY INTERESTS AND GIFTS.
   Every candidate for elective office shall on or before the thirtieth (30th)
day after the final day for filing petitions for elective office, file a sworn
statement with the City Clerk which shall list the following information:
   (a)   The name of every employer who has reported earnings of the candidate
for federal income tax purposes during the employee’s previous taxable year.
   (b)   The source of certain earnings from self-employment to the extent that
the amount received from single sources during the employee’s previous taxable
year exceeded the amount of annual compensation provided for a member of the
City Council during the current year. If the disclosure of the name of a person
would violate a professional confidence, the candidate shall indicate that the
information is privileged and shall place the privileged information in a
sealed envelope in the custody of the City Clerk where it shall be kept for a
year and a day before being destroyed. The envelope shall never be unsealed
unless so ordered by a Court of competent authority.
   (c)   The name of every corporation or other business in which the candidate
is a director or officer, or has an interest worth more than $25,000.00.
   (d)   The address or legal description of every parcel of land within the
City of Flint valued at more than $2,500.00 in which the candidate has
interest.
   (e)   The source of loans of more than $1,000.00 or gifts worth more than
$100.00 received during the previous 365 days from persons other than persons
who reside or at some time resided in the same household as the candidate, and
other than State recognized lending institutions in the case of loans.
(Ord. 2634, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-149 SAME — ALTERNATIVE TO STATEMENT.
   Nothing contained in this ordinance shall be interpreted to require any
person to disclose the actual value of financial interests, sources of income
or gifts which are mentioned in the annual statement. As an alternative to
filing a statement listing the information required by §
1-148(a), (b) and (c), a candidate may file a copy of the federal income tax
return covering the candidate’s most recent taxable year.
(Ord. 2634, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-150 CITY EMPLOYEE TO TAKE A LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY UPON COMPLYING
WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTIVE OFFICER.
   Every nonelective officer or employee of the City of Flint who becomes a
candidate for any elective office created by the Charter of the City of Flint
shall apply for, and shall receive, a leave of absence without pay during the
period of candidacy. The period of candidacy shall begin when the employee
complies with the candidacy filing requirements and shall end when the
candidate is either defeated or takes office. No City employee shall be
required to commence a leave of absence more than sixty (60) days before the
date of any election relating to the position regardless of whether the period
of candidacy has commenced.
(Ord. 2633, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-151 CITY EMPLOYEE TO RESIGN FROM EMPLOYMENT UPON TAKING ELECTIVE OFFICE.
   Every City employee who takes office as an elective officer, under the
Charter of the City of Flint, shall resign from City employment.
(Ord. 2633, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-152 COMPLIANCE WITH CAMPAIGN FINANCING ACT REQUIRED.
   All persons and entities taking political action involving the Charter of
the City of Flint shall be required to comply with Act 388 of the Public Acts
of 1976, being MCLA §§ 169.201 et seq., which is known as the Michigan Campaign
Finance Act.
(Ord. 2632, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-153 COPY OF REPORTS TO COUNTY CLERK INVOLVING CANDIDATES TO BE FILED WITH
CITY CLERK.
   All persons and entities supporting or opposing candidates for office under
the Charter of the City of Flint shall be required to file with the City Clerk
a copy of any report they are required by statute to file with the County Clerk
which involves the City candidate. The report shall be filed with the City
Clerk no later than the day it is due to be filed with the County Clerk.
(Ord. 2632, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-154 COPY OF REPORTS TO COUNTY CLERK INVOLVING CITY ISSUES TO BE FILED WITH
CITY CLERK.
   All persons and entities supporting or opposing issues which are submitted
to the voters of the City and which arise under the Charter of the City of
Flint or under provisions of law permitting the amendment or revision of the
Charter of the City of Flint shall be required to file with the City Clerk a
copy of any report they are required by statute to file with the County Clerk
involving a City issue. The report shall be filed with the City Clerk no later
than the day it is due to be filed with the County Clerk.
(Ord. 2632, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-155 FAILURE TO COMPLY NOT TO PREVENT SEEKING OR HOLDING OFFICE.
   The failure to comply with the requirements of this Code shall not prevent
any person from seeking or holding office and shall not invalidate the vote of
the people.
(Ord. 2632, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-156 PERSONS ACTING ON BEHALF OF ANOTHER TO INFLUENCE OFFICIAL ACT OF CITY
TO FILE STATEMENT OF REPRESENTATION UPON REQUEST.
   Every agency of the City empowered to take action on behalf of the City, or
authorized by statute or ordinance to make an official recommendation to the
City Council, shall request every person who appears before the agency
representing others, to disclose, in writing, the names of the persons he or
she is representing. It will be assumed that the representative is receiving
compensation for the representation unless stated otherwise.
(Ord. 2631, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-157 PERSONS REPRESENTING OTHERS IN ATTEMPT TO INFLUENCE OFFICIAL ACT OF
CITY REQUIRED TO DISCLOSE NAME OF PERSON REPRESENTED UPON REQUEST.
   Every person who represents others in attempting to influence an official
act of the City shall be required to disclose, in writing, the name of the
person he or she is representing upon the request of the Chief Legal Officer or
agency involved.
(Ord. 2631, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-158 GIFTS TO CITY OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   No person shall offer or give a gift to any City officer or employee or to
any person who resides or at some time resided in the same household as a City
officer or employee, for the purpose of influencing any official act of the
City. No City officer or employee shall solicit or receive, directly or through
another person, a gift from any person which is intended to influence any
official act of the City. This section shall not prohibit the provision of food
or beverage for immediate consumption and shall not prohibit any effort to
influence a vote of the people.
(Ord. 2631, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-159 REPORTING EXPENDITURES INCURRED IN COURSE OF ATTEMPTING TO INFLUENCE
OFFICIAL ACTS OF CITY.
   Every person acting on behalf of others to influence an official act of the
City shall file with the City Clerk, a sworn statement reporting all
expenditures for food and beverages and other expenditures involved in
influencing the official act. The report shall be filed no later than 10 days
after the close of the calendar quarter in which the expenditure was incurred
and shall state the official act sought to be influenced and the names of all
persons involved in the expenditure. Expenditures of $10.00 or less for food
and beverage provided to a city officer or employee on any occasion need not be
reported.
   No report shall be filed for any quarter in which total expenditures in
influencing official acts of the City are $50.00 or less, unless some or all of
the expenditures consist of provision of food or beverage for City officers or
employees in amounts of $10.00 or more on a specific occasion.
(Ord. 2631, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 1-160 FORM OF SUBPOENA BY OMBUDSMAN.
   For the purposes of enforcing Section
3-505 of the Charter of the City of Flint, subpoenas may be issued by the
Ombudsman in the name of the people of the City of Flint and shall be signed
and sealed by the Ombudsman.
(Ord. 2703, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 1-161 REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH SUBPOENA PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person served with a subpoena issued by the
Ombudsman as provided in §
1-160 to appear and testify or to produce books, papers and other evidence in
the course of an investigation pursuant to Section
3-505 of the Charter, to refuse or neglect to appear or testify or produce the
books, papers and other evidence as commanded in the subpoena. The provisions
of this section are cumulative and are not intended to have any effect on the
power of the Ombudsman to take other action to compel the production of
evidence.
(Ord. 2703, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 1-162 OMBUDSMAN; SICK LEAVE, EXTENDED SICK LEAVE, CONTINUING ABSENCE,
APPOINTMENT OF A TEMPORARY OMBUDSMAN.
   (a)   At any time during his tenure in office that the Ombudsman is on sick
leave as defined in § 35-88A.1., extended sick leave as defined in §
35-88.A.2., or otherwise absent from work for 20 consecutive workdays, the City
Council may by a two-thirds majority of members, elect to appoint a temporary
Ombudsman.
   (b)   A temporary Ombudsman shall have all the powers and authority of the
Ombudsman. However, any professional services contracts entered into by a
temporary Ombudsman are terminable at will and are to be for an indefinite
duration.
   (c)   During the period of absence as defined in subsection (a) above, the
Ombudsman shall be relieved of all authority relative to the Ombudsman’s
office.
   (d)   Pursuant to this section, the Ombudsman must comply with § 35-88A.3(b)
in order to return to work. Once the Ombudsman has been cleared to return to
work on a date certain, a temporary Ombudsman shall be placed on notice that
his/her last day of employment shall be the day preceding the Ombudsman’s
return.
   (e)   Upon return to work, the Ombudsman’s powers shall be fully reinstated.
   (f)   A temporary Ombudsman’s term of appointment shall not continue past
the Ombudsman’s term of appointment.
   (g)   A temporary Ombudsman is ineligible to be appointed Ombudsman.
   (h)   A temporary Ombudsman may be appointed more than once, but shall not
serve for longer than a combined total of seven years.
   (i)   All powers vested in the City Council under Section
3-501 et seq. of the Flint City Charter, as well as the limitations contained
therein shall remain in effect under this section.
(Ord. 3516, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 1-163 TEMPORARY OMBUDSMAN; COMPENSATION.
   A temporary Ombudsman shall be compensated on a per diem basis at the same
level as the Ombudsman. When the Ombudsman is reinstated, the salary of a
temporary Ombudsman shall terminate immediately. The payment of any benefits
for a temporary Ombudsman shall terminate on the last day of the month in which
the Ombudsman is reinstated.
(Ord. 3516, passed 8-25-2003)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION *
Section
Article I. In General
   
2-1   Investigation of conduct of departments and the like
   
2-1.2   Creation or reorganization of executive departments
   
2-2   Same — power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths and the like
   
2-3   Same — refusal to comply with subpoena prohibited
   
2-3.2   City-owned vehicles — use generally
   
2-3.3   Same — administrative regulations governing use
   
2-3.4   Use of City vehicles
   
2-3.5   City buildings — allocation of space
Article II. Community Beatification Commission
   
2-4   Established; membership
   
2-5   Term of office of members; vacancies
   
2-6   Compensation for members
   
2-7   Election of officers; adoption of administrative procedures;
consultations with City officials
   
2-8   Powers and duties — generally
   
2-9   Time limitations on consideration of matters submitted
   
2-10   Advising of private property owners
Article III. Local Officers Compensation Commission
   
2-11   Created; purpose
   
2-12   Composition; qualifications of members; appointment
   
2-13   Term of office; filling of vacancies
   
2-14   Certain persons ineligible for membership
   
2-15   Duties generally
   
2-16   Reserved
Article IV. Housing Commission
   
2-17   Created
   
2-18   Powers and duties
Article V. Human Relations Commission
   
2-19   Created; membership; compensation and term of members; meetings
   
2-19.1   Definitions
   
2-19.2   Discriminatory practices
   
2-20   Duties
   
2-21   Budget; office space
   
2-22   Filing of complaints
   
2-23   Obtaining of factual information
   
2-23.1   Mediation and enforcement powers
   
2-24   Executive Director
   
2-25   Reserved
Article VI. City Wide Advisory Committee
   
2-26   Created
   
2-26.1   Composition; appointment and removal of members
   
2-26.2   Term of members
   
2-26.3   Organizations; technical assistance
   
2-26.4   Compensation of members
Article VII. Planning Commission
   
2-27   Definitions
   
2-28   Membership; compensation; terms of members; removal of members;
vacancies
   
2-28.1   Causes for removal from Commission
   
2-29   Chairperson; rules; records
   
2-30   Expenditures; appointment of employees; contracts for services
   
2-31   Master plan for physical development of municipality — to be made and
adopted; contents
   
2-32   Same — surveys and studies; purpose
   
2-33   Same — adoption; public hearing; certification
   
2-34   Approval of public works
   
2-35   Powers generally
   
2-35.5   Zoning powers
   
2-36   Necessity for approval of subdivision plats
   
2-37   Regulations governing subdivision of land
   
2-38   Procedures for approving plats; amendments to zoning
Article VIII. Department of Community Development
   
2-39   Created
   
2-40   Appointment of Director of Department
   
2-41   Duties and responsibilities of Director
   
2-42   Management of fiscal affairs
Article IX. Reserved
Article X. Reserved
Article XI. Reserved
Article XII. Department of Police
   
2-75   Created
   
2-76   Chief of Police to be head of Department; appointment
   
2-77   Serving process; making arrests
   
2-78   Authority of Chief of Police to establish divisions within Department
and to appoint subordinates and employees
   
2-79   Rules for administration of Department policy governing personnel
policies
   
2-80   General powers and duties of the Chief of Police and subordinates
   
2-80.1   Fingerprinting of persons arrested for misdemeanor felony violations
   2-81 – 2-84   Reserved
Article XIII. Department of Fire
   
2-85   Created
   
2-86   Fire Chief to head Department; appointment
   
2-87   Powers and duties of Fire Chief
   
2-88   Establishment of divisions within Department
   
2-89   Establishment of rules and regulations for administration and operation
of Department
Article XIV. Department of Parks and Recreation
   
2-90   Created
   
2-91   Appointment of Director
   
2-92   Duties and responsibilities of Director
   
2-93   Establishment of divisions within Department
   
2-94   Appointment of subordinates and employees
   
2-95   Authority of Director to adopt rules necessary for the performance of
duties
   
2-96   Existing rules and regulations for supervision, management and operation
of parks
   
2-97   Obligations and encumbrances incurred by and debts and monies due Board
   
2-98   Rights, obligations of Board to be assumed by City
   
2-99   Reserved
Article XV. Department of Finance
   
2-100   Created
   
2-101   Appointment of Director
   
2-102   Duties and responsibilities of Director generally
   
2-103   Appointment of subordinates and employees
   
2-104   Authority of Director to adopt rules and regulations necessary for
performance of duties
   
2-105   Divisions of Department
   2-106 – 2-109   Reserved
Article XVI. Department of Public Works and Utilities
   
2-110   Created
   
2-111   Director of Department; appointment, term
   
2-112   Establishment of divisions within Department
   
2-113   Appointment of subordinates and employees
   
2-114   Promulgation of rules and regulations for operation of Department
   2-115 – 2-119   Reserved
Article XVII. Economic Development Corporation
   
2-120   Approval of application of certain individuals to incorporate
   
2-121   Copy of articles to be filed with Secretary of State
   
2-122   Applicants to proceed to incorporate upon filing
   
2-123   Article void if incorporation not accomplished within 90 days after
effective date
   
2-124   Reserved
Article XVIII. Downtown Development Authority
   
2-125   Authority established
   
2-126   Boundaries of district within which authority to exercise powers
   
2-127   Powers of authority
   
2-128   Financing of activities
   
2-129   Filing and publication of provisions
   
2-130   Dissolution of authority; disposition of property and assets
   
2-131   Bond required
   2-132 – 2-140   Reserved
Article XIX. Historic Districts and Historic District Commission
   
2-141   Purpose
   
2-142   Definitions
   
2-143   Historic districts; creation; boundaries
   
2-144   Historic District Commission — creation; composition
   
2-145   Same — organization; meetings; quorum; voting
   
2-146   Same — duties and powers
   
2-147   Procedure for the review of plans
   
2-148   Demolition or moving of district resources
   
2-149   Yard variances
   
2-150   Exceptions
   
2-151   Enforcement
   
2-152   Appeals
   2-153 – 2-161   Reserved
Article XX. Flint Area Enterprise Zone
   
2-162   Findings and determinations
   
2-163   Appointment of Citizens’ Council
   
2-164   Duties of Citizens’ Council
   
2-165   Establishment of Enterprise Zone
Article XXI. Principal Staff Officials
   
2-170   Maximum number of positions
   
2-171   Resolution and description required
   
2-172   Duration of position
   
2-173   Expansion of responsibilities
   
2-174   Creation of authorized positions
Article XXII. Office on Aging and Handicapped
   
2-175   Department created
   
2-176   Director — appointment
   
2-177   Same — duties
Statutory reference:
   Home Rule Act, see MCLA §§ 117 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 2-1 INVESTIGATION OF CONDUCT OF DEPARTMENTS AND THE LIKE.
   In conformity with Section
3-205 of the Charter, the City Council, or any committee of the City Council
authorized by the City Council, shall have the power to investigate into the
affairs of the City and the conduct of any City agency.
(Ord. 136, passed 4-20-1937; Ord. 2585, passed 1-24-1977)
§ 2-1.2 CREATION OR REORGANIZATION OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS.
   No executive department required or permitted by the Charter of the City of
Flint shall be created or reorganized without the prior authorization of the
Flint City Council.
   Violation of this ordinance is considered a misdemeanor, punishable by a
$500.00 fine and/or 90 days in jail.
(Ord. 3629, passed 11-22-2004)
§ 2-2 SAME — POWER TO SUBPOENA WITNESSES, ADMINISTER OATHS AND THE LIKE.
   For the purposes set forth in §
2-1, the City Council shall have the power to subpoena witnesses, administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of books,
papers and other evidence. Subpoenas shall be issued in the name of the people
of the City of Flint and shall be signed and sealed by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 136, passed 4-20-1937; Ord. 2585, passed 1-24-1977)
§ 2-3 SAME — REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH SUBPOENA PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person served with a subpoena issued by the
City Council as provided for in §
2-1, to appear and testify or to produce books, papers and other evidence in
the course of an investigation conducted under the provisions of §
2-1, to refuse or neglect to appear to testify or produce the books, papers and
other evidence, as commanded in the subpoena.
(Ord. 136, passed 4-20-1937; Ord. 2585, passed 1-24-1977)
§ 2-3.2 CITY-OWNED VEHICLES — USE GENERALLY.
   City-owned vehicles are to be used only for official City business and only
pursuant to and as authorized by written administrative regulations promulgated
by the Chief Administrative Officer, and said regulations shall be subject to
the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 2802, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 2-3.3 SAME — ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS GOVERNING USE.
   The administrative regulations governing the use of City-owned vehicles
shall make provision for:
   (a)   Assignment of pool vehicles on a specific use basis;
   (b)   Assignment of vehicles to individual positions on an eight (8) hour or
work shift basis;
   (c)   Assignment of vehicles to individual positions on a twenty-four (24)
hour basis;
   (d)   Use and operation of vehicles including safety equipment;
   (e)   Use of personal cars for City business.
(Ord. 2802, passed 8-24-1981)
§ 2-3.4 USE OF CITY VEHICLES.
   Use of City vehicles contrary to the regulations as promulgated by the City
Administrator shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 8-24-1981)
§ 2-3.5 CITY BUILDINGS — ALLOCATION OF SPACE.
   The City Council shall, by resolution, determine the use of space within
City Hall and within City buildings adjacent thereto. Such determination for
allocation or reallocation of space shall be made annually in connection with
the approval of the budget of the City of Flint and at such other times as
requested by the Mayor of the City of Flint with the approval of the City
Council.
(Ord. 3166, passed 6-16-1991)
ARTICLE II. COMMUNITY BEATIFICATION COMMISSION
§ 2-4 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby established a Community Beautification Commission, to act in
an advisory capacity to the City government of the City of Flint in connection
with the artistic and cultural development of the City. Such Commission shall
consist of eighteen (18) members to be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by a majority of the City Council. The Mayor shall solicit
suggested nominations for such appointments from architectural, art, musical,
literary, educational, museum, business, religious and other cultural and
professional organizations.
(Ord. 1874, passed 10-18-1965)
§ 2-5 TERM OF OFFICE OF MEMBERS; VACANCIES.
   Original appointments to the such Commission shall be for one, two, three,
four, five and six-year terms, with one-sixth of the terms expiring annually.
Appointments made to fill terms expiring in 1977 and thereafter shall be for
five-year terms. Vacancies for any reason shall be filled for unexpired terms
by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 1874, passed 10-18-1965; Ord. 2600, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 2-6 COMPENSATION FOR MEMBERS.
   Members shall serve without compensation from the City or from any trust,
donation or legacy to the City for their services as such members, but this
limitation shall not preclude a member or his firm from receiving compensation
from the City under contract or otherwise, for services rendered outside his
duties as a member of said Commission.
(Ord. 1874, passed 10-18-1965)
§ 2-7 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; ADOPTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES;
CONSULTATIONS WITH CITY OFFICIALS.
   The Commission shall organize and elect officers annually and adopt such
administrative procedures as are necessary to accomplish the purposes mentioned
in §
2-4. City officers and the staff of City departments may consult and advise
with the Commission from time to time on matters coming within the scope of
this ordinance, and the Community Beautification Commission may likewise
consult and advise with such officers.
(Ord. 1874, passed 10-18-1965)
§ 2-8 POWERS AND DUTIES — GENERALLY.
   No work of art shall be placed on property of the City nor become the
property of the City by purchase, gift, or otherwise, except for a museum or
gallery unless such work of art, or a design or model of the same as required
by the Commission, together with the proposed location of such work of art
shall first have been submitted to the Commission for its recommendation to the
City government. The term WORK OF ART as used in this ordinance shall comprise
paintings, mural decorations, stained glass, statues, bas reliefs or other
sculptures, monuments, fountains, arches or other structures of a permanent or
temporary character intended for ornament or commemoration. No existing work of
art in the possession of the City shall be removed, relocated or altered in any
way without being submitted to the Commission for report and recommendation.
   The Commission may advise with the proper City officials with respect to the
design of buildings, bridges, viaducts, elevated ways, gates, fences, lamp
standards or other structures erected on or to be erected upon land belonging
to the City and concerning arches, bridges, structures and approaches which are
the property of any corporation or private individual and which shall extend
over or upon any street, avenue, highway, park or public place in the City.
   The Commission, with the assistance of the Department of Public Works, is
authorized to prepare and maintain a roster of sites and structures in Flint of
historic significance and may recommend to the City Council measures for the
preservation of any structure on said roster, including the withholding of a
demolition permit for a reasonable time, with the consent of, and with due
regard to the rights of the owner thereof.
(Ord. 1874, passed 10-18-1965)
§ 2-9 TIME LIMITATIONS ON CONSIDERATION OF MATTERS SUBMITTED.
   The Commission shall decide any matters submitted to it involving an
expenditure of less than $1,000.00 within fifteen days after submission and
upon any other such matter within thirty days after submission. If it fails to
do so, its recommendation shall be considered unnecessary.
(Ord. 1874, passed 10-18-1965)
§ 2-10 ADVISING OF PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The Commission may advise with owners of private property in relation to the
beautification and development of such property and anyone contemplating the
erection of any building or the making of any improvement thereon may submit
the plans and designs or sketches thereof to the Community Beautification
Commission for advice and suggestions for which no charge shall be made by the
Commission.
(Ord. 1874, passed 10-18-1965)
ARTICLE III. LOCAL OFFICERS COMPENSATION COMMISSION
§ 2-11 CREATED; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby created a Local Officers Compensation Commission whose
principal duty shall be to determine the salaries of all local elected
officials.
(Ord. 2321, passed 3-27-1972)
§ 2-12 COMPOSITION; QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Local Officers Compensation Commission shall consist of seven members
who are registered electors of the City of Flint, and shall be appointed by the
Mayor subject to confirmation by a majority of the members elected and serving
on the City Council.
(Ord. 2321, passed 3-27-1972)
§ 2-13 TERM OF OFFICE; FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   The terms of office shall be seven years, except the members first appointed
shall each be individually appointed to the following terms: One for one year,
one for two years, one for three years, one for four years, one for five years,
one for six years and one for seven years. The first member shall be appointed
within thirty days after the effective date of this ordinance. Thereafter the
members shall be appointed before October 1st of the year in which the vacancy
occurs. When vacancies occur during the term, the appointment shall be for the
unexpired term.
(Ord. 2321, passed 3-27-1972)
§ 2-14 CERTAIN PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   No member or employee of the legislative, judicial or executive branch of
any level of government or members of the immediate family of such member or
employee shall be eligible to be a member of the Local Officers Compensation
Commission.
(Ord. 2321, passed 3-27-1972)
§ 2-15 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   After such Local Officers Compensation Commission has been appointed and
qualified according to law, they shall perform the duties imposed upon them by
subsection 5(c) of Act 279 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended, which Act is
entitled “An act to provide for the incorporation of cities and for revising
and amending their charter.”
(Ord. 2321, passed 3-27-1972)
§ 2-16 RESERVED.
Statutory reference:
   Home Rule City Act, see MCLA 117
ARTICLE IV. HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 2-17 CREATED.
   Pursuant to Public Act No. 18 of the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by
Public Act No. 80 of 1935, Public Act No. 265 of 1937 and Public Act No. 5 of
the Extra Session of 1938, a commission is hereby created for the City, to be
known as the “Flint Housing Commission.”
(Ord. 1788, passed 7-27-1964)
§ 2-18 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Flint Housing Commission shall have all the powers and duties
vested or permitted to be vested in housing commissions by State law, it being
the intention of this article to vest in the Flint Housing Commission all
powers and duties permitted by law.
   (b)   The Flint Housing Commission shall be designated as a borrower
pursuant to State law, and have all of the power and authority as a borrower
set forth in Public Act 18 of 1933.
(Ord. 1788, passed 7-27-1964; Ord. 3782, passed 9-23-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Housing facilities, see MCLA 125.651 through 125.709e
ARTICLE V. HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION
§ 2-19 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION AND TERM OF MEMBERS; MEETINGS.
   It is hereby found that prejudice and discrimination against any individual
or group because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital
status, political orientation, age or handicap is inimical to democracy, the
cornerstone of our American tradition, and menaces peace and public welfare.
That eliminate such prejudice and discrimination, an instrumentality of
government should be established through which the citizens of Flint may be
kept informed of developments in human relations and from which the elected and
appointed officials, and the departments of this City may obtain advice and
assistance in adopting those measures to keep peace and good order and harmony
among the citizens of Flint, and to promote and insure equality of treatment
and of opportunity to all, regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, marital status, political orientation, age or handicap.
   Therefore, there is hereby created and established a commission to be known
as the Human Relations Commission, consisting of fifteen members to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. The members of
the Human Relations Commission, as nearly as possible, shall be representatives
of the various racial, religious, national, cultural and ethnic groups of the
City. They shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for
expenses actually and necessarily incurred in connection with their duties as
members of the Human Relations Commission subject to the approval of the Mayor.
Of the 15 members so appointed, one-third shall be for one year, one-third
shall be for two years and one-third shall be for three years, and thereafter
appointments shall be for three-year terms. In the event of death or
resignation of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed by the Mayor
to serve for the unexpired term for which such member had been appointed.
Current members of the Human Relations Commission shall continue to serve until
their respective terms expire and shall then be eligible for reappointment in
accordance with Section
6-101 of the Charter of the City of Flint. The City Council, may by appropriate
action, increase the membership of the Human Relations Commission to a total of
not more than 21 members, preferably in multiples of three. One-third of the
new members shall be appointed for one year, one-third for two years and one-
third for three years, and thereafter any member shall be appointed for a
three-year term, and shall likewise be as nearly as possible representative of
the community as herein set forth.
   In addition to the membership provided for previously in this section, one
member of the City Council shall be appointed by the City Council to serve as
an ex officio member of the Human Relations Commission. Such member shall serve
during his term of office and shall act as liaison between the City Council and
the Human Relations Commission.
   The Human Relations Commission shall meet not less than once a month and
shall adopt, by majority rule, such rules as it shall deem expedient for the
conduct of its business. Such rules shall be adopted in accordance with Section
1-801 of the City Charter.
(Ord. 2602, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 2-19.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   AGE. Chronological age over the legal age of 18 years.
   COMMISSION. The Flint Human Relations Commission.
   DIRECTOR. The Executive Director of the Flint Human Relations Commission.
   HANDICAP. A limitation of physical capabilities unrelated to one’s ability
to safely perform work involved in jobs or positions available for such person
for hire or promotion of a limitation of physical capabilities unrelated to
one’s ability to acquire, rent and maintain property. HANDICAP includes but is
not limited to blindness or partial sightedness, deafness or hearing
impairment, muteness, partial or total absence of a physical member, speech
impairment and motor impairment.
   HIS. Refers to a person, male or female.
   MARITAL STATUS. The state of being married, single, separated, divorced or
widowed.
   PERSON. Any individual, group, association, corporation, partnership,
receiver, trust, trustee, trustee in bankruptcy, unincorporated organization,
any legal or commercial entity, the State or any governmental entity or agency.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. An educational, health, entertainment,
cultural, recreation, refreshment, transportation, accommodation, business or
other facility of any kind, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges,
advantages or accommodations are extended, offered, sold or otherwise made
available to the general public, or which receives financial support through
solicitation of the general public or through governmental subsidy of any kind.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSPORTATION. The sale, exchange, rental or lease of any real
property.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. A preference with regard to the sex of one’s actual or
potential sexual partners.
(Ord. 2602, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3131, passed 4-9-1990)
§ 2-19.2 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unfair or discriminatory practice for any person, for reasons
of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age,
marital status, political affiliation, or handicap, to:
   (a)   Refuse the sale, exchange, lease or rental of any housing
accommodation or living quarters of any sort, or initiate a real estate
transaction or advertise such housing accommodation in a fashion as to
discriminate against any individual on the basis of such categories; or to
discriminate against any person on the basis of such categories with reference
to the availability, terms, conditions or privileges of such real estate
transaction, in the lending of money or otherwise making available funding for
the acquisition of such housing accommodations.
   (b)   Refuse to hire or render employment service to any individual or to
conduct personnel matters in such fashion as to discriminate on the basis of
those categories.
   (c)   Deny or limit access to a place of accommodation or facilities thereof
in such fashion as to discriminate any individual on the basis of said
categories.
   (d)   Deprive any student of the right to equal educational opportunity on
the basis of such categories.
   (e)   No person shall adopt, enforce or employ any policy or requirement,
publish, post or broadcast any advertisement, sign or notice that discriminates
or indicates discrimination in providing housing, employment or public
accommodations.
   It is further a discriminatory practice to retaliate or discriminate against
a person because he or she has opposed a discriminatory practice, filed a
charge or complaint, testified or assisted in an investigation undertaken by
the Human Relations Commission.
   It shall not be considered a discriminatory practice for a religious
organization or institution to restrict any of its facilities of housing or
accommodation which are operated in connection with its religious activities to
persons of the denomination involved, to restrict enrollment in denominational
schools to members of that denomination, or to restrict enrollment
opportunities to persons of that denomination, if a bona fide religious purpose
for such restriction exists.
(Ord. 2602, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3131, passed 4-9-1990)
§ 2-20 DUTIES.
   The objectives of the Human Relations Commission shall be to work
cooperatively with other persons to eliminate discrimination and the results of
the past discrimination, to recommend ways and means of initiating and
improving city government programs designed to eliminate discrimination or to
remove the effects of past discrimination, and to develop programs for
coordination of community efforts to address problems involving tensions in the
community.
   In performing this function, the Commission shall strive to increase the
effectiveness of these programs, to increase the fairness with which these
programs are operated and to increase interdepartmental harmony in the
operation of these programs. To achieve the objectives of this article, the
Human Relations Commission shall:
   (a)   Develop mutual understanding and respect among all racial, religious,
nationality, cultural and ethnic groups in the City of Flint and work to
prevent discriminatory practices against such groups.
   (b)   Aid in seeing that no person is deprived of equal services in this
City by reason of discrimination on account of race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, political affiliation, age, or
handicap.
   (c)   Encourage, receive, investigate and evaluate complaints from any
person of discrimination which allegedly violates local law, and any other
complaints as it deems fall within the scope of its services, and make public
the procedures which a person may use to complain of discrimination.
   (d)   Receive and investigate complaints and problems and initiate its own
investigations of intergroup tensions and of practices of discrimination and
acts of prejudice against any person or group due to considerations of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status,
political affiliation, age or handicap.
   (e)   Confer with the Chief Legal Officer on such complaints as appear to
require legal process after initial investigation and/or failure to achieve
conciliation.
   (f)   Initiate and conduct hearings not otherwise prohibited by law in
situations in which the Commission has reason to believe that discrimination
has occurred in violation of law.
   (g)   Engage in testing of discriminatory practices without entrapment where
necessary to verify information relating to complaints of alleged
discriminatory practices.
   (h)   Investigate upon request or initiate investigation of racial
incidents, make recommendations for corrective action, and coordinate community
efforts towards their resolution.
   (i)   Formulate, develop and disseminate programs of community information,
educational materials, and reports which will assist in the elimination of
prejudice, intolerance, intergroup tensions and discrimination, or which
promote goodwill and result in better human relations.
   (j)   Maintain a program in cooperation with local employers, unions,
employment agencies and other relevant persons seeking to improve employment
opportunities for persons who have been the traditional targets of
discrimination in employment.
   (k)   Assist community groups and various fraternal, service and benevolent
organizations in the promotion of educational campaigns devoted to the
elimination of group prejudices, racial or neighborhood tensions, intolerances
and discrimination.
   (l)   Conduct research and obtain data to ascertain the status and treatment
of racial, religious and ethnic groups of the City and the best means of
progressively improving human relations in Flint.
   (m)   Cooperate with and render assistance to the Ombudsman, the Citizens
Action Center, the equal opportunity officers and other branches of City
government in the area of human rights.
   (n)   Cooperate with and render assistance to County, State, Federal and
other governmental or private agencies in the area of human rights.
   (o)   Prepare and publish an annual report and such other factual reports
and recommendations as it deems necessary concerning problems relating to
discrimination, racial tensions, and other human relations concerns. Copies of
all the reports and recommendations shall be filed with the City Council.
(Ord. 2602, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3131, passed 4-9-1990)
§ 2-21 BUDGET; OFFICE SPACE.
   The Human Relations Commission shall be granted an annual budget adequate to
provide such professional and clerical staff as is reasonable and proper to
enable it to carry out its responsibilities, and shall be assigned office space
adequate for the conduct of its business and the fulfillment of its duties.
(Ord. 2602, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 2-22 FILING OF COMPLAINTS.
   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by a discriminatory practice prohibited
by §
2-19.2 of this Code may file with the Human Relations Commission a complaint,
written or oral, identifying himself and stating his belief that a
discriminatory practice has been committed. The Commission may, on its own
initiative, file a complaint based upon information and belief that a
discriminatory practice has occurred. The Commission may endeavor to eliminate
the alleged discriminatory practice by conference, conciliation and persuasion.
   Neither the Commission nor any employee affiliated therewith shall make
public, without the written consent of complainant and respondent, information
concerning efforts to eliminate a discriminatory practice.
(Ord. 2602, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 2-23 OBTAINING OF FACTUAL INFORMATION.
   The obtaining of factual information by the Human Relations Commission in
the performance of its duties under this article is hereby declared to be
necessary to its functions. All other departments of the City shall cooperate
with the Human Relations Commission, upon its request, relative to the
gathering of factual information; provided, however, that the opinion of the
Chief Legal Officer shall be obtained in such matters as appear to involve some
liability on the part of the City.
(Ord. 2602, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 2-23.1 MEDIATION AND ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   In cases involving alleged violations of this article, the Executive
Director may enter into agreements whereby persons agree to methods of
terminating discrimination or to reverse the effects of past discrimination.
Such agreement shall be reviewed by the Human Relations Commission. Violations
of such agreements shall be violations of this article.
   Discriminatory practices as defined in this article are violations of this
article.
(Ord. 3131, passed 4-9-1990)
§ 2-24 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
   There is hereby created the position of Executive Director of the Human
Relations Commission, who shall be appointed by the Mayor from a list of at
least three names submitted to him by the Human Relations Commission, said
appointment to be subject to confirmation by a majority vote of the City
Council members elect. The Executive Director may be removed by the Mayor,
subject to concurrence of a majority of the members of the Human Relations
Commission as constituted at the time action is taken. The Executive Director
shall have the authority and responsibility for the execution of the policies
and programs of the Human Relations Commission and shall be in charge of the
administration and operation of that program. The Executive Director shall also
perform such other duties as are delegated by the Mayor and the Human Relations
Commission.
(Ord. 2602, passed 4-25-1977)
§ 2-25 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. CITY WIDE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 2-26 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a City Wide Advisory Committee in accordance with
Section
6-101 of the Flint City Charter to act in an advisory capacity to the City of
Flint in connection with all community and economic development programs.
(Ord. 2902, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 2-26.1 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   (a)   The City Wide Advisory Committee (CWAC) shall, except as otherwise
provided herein, consist of 27 members. There shall be three members from each
of the nine wards of the city serving on the CWAC. In each ward the City
Council shall appoint two (2) members and the Mayor shall appoint one (1)
member to the CWAC.
   (b)   A member of the CWAC shall be a registered voter and a resident of the
ward in which he or she is appointed.
   (c)   Prior to action being taken by the City Council with respect to an
appointment by the Mayor to the CWAC from a particular ward, the City Council
member representing such ward shall first have had the opportunity to submit to
the Mayor the name or names of any person(s) said Council member seeks to have
considered for appointment to the CWAC from said ward.
   (d)   Removal as a member of the CWAC shall be for cause upon recommendation
of the Mayor and in accordance with Sections
6-101(B)(3) and
1-603 of the Flint City Charter. The failure to attend at least seven meetings
annually shall be a cause for removal.
   (e)   Current members of the CWAC shall continue to serve until their
present term of appointment would otherwise expire, unless prior thereto, they
should die, resign, accept appointment as one of the “initial appointments” as
provided in §
2-26.2, or are removed as herein provided. Once the present term of a current
member expires, he or she shall not serve on the CWAC beyond that term unless
appointed as provided in §
2-26.2.
   (f)   For purposes of this article, CURRENT MEMBER is a person serving on
the CWAC on January 23, 1989, and PRESENT TERM shall mean a term expiring
either on May 31, 1989 or May 31, 1990, whichever date is applicable to a
particular current member.
(Ord. 2902, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 3092, passed 2-13-1989; Ord. 3484, passed 12-
10-2001)
§ 2-26.2 TERM OF MEMBERS.
   The terms of the initial appointments to the CWAC from each ward shall be as
follows:
   Two (2) members shall serve a term of three (3) years; two (2) members shall
serve a term of two (2) years; and one (1) member shall serve a term of one (1)
years. The initial terms of the members from each ward shall be determined by
lot. Following the terms of the initial appointments, all terms of appointment
shall be for three (3) years, provided however, that an appointment to fill a
vacancy during a term shall be for the unexpired balance of that term. For
purposes of this section “initial appointments” shall mean the first forty-five
(45) members appointed to the CWAC following the adoption of this ordinance
establishing a forty-five (45) member CWAC. All successor appointments shall be
made in the same manner as provided for in §
2-26.1. A member of the CWAC may be reappointed to succeed him/herself.
   Except for the initial appointments, the effective date of all appointments
shall be June 1st. For the initial appointments, the effective date of each
such appointment shall be the date of City Council approval of said initial
appointments, provided said approval is on or before June 1st. Appointments
made after June 1st shall be given retroactive effect to June 1. The term of an
appointment shall expire on May 31st of the year in which the appointment would
expire. Members, as distinguished from current members as defined in §
2-26.1, may continue to serve beyond the expiration of their term, until their
reappointment, the appointment of a successor, or their removal, whichever
should occur first. A current member, as defined in §
2-26.1, may be appointed as one of the initial appointments under this section.
If a current member accepts such initial appointment, that acceptance shall
cause the automatic termination of their present term.
(Ord. 2902, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 3092, passed 2-13-1989)
§ 2-26.3 ORGANIZATIONS; TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
   The City Wide Advisory Committee shall within thirty (30) days following the
appointment of all members, organize, adopt a regular schedule of meetings,
elect officers and adopt such administrative procedures pursuant to Section
1-801 of the Flint City Charter as are necessary to accomplish the purposes
mentioned in §
2-26 hereof.
   The Department of Community Development shall provide whatever technical
assistance is required to the City Wide Advisory Committee in the performance
of its duties.
(Ord. 2902, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 2-26.4 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the City Wide Advisory Committee shall serve without compensation
from the City or from any trust, donation or legacy to the City for their
services as such members, but this limitation shall not preclude a member or
his firm from receiving compensation from the City under contract or otherwise,
for services rendered outside his duties as a member of the City Wide Advisory
Committee.
(Ord. 2902, passed 4-9-1984)
ARTICLE VII. PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 2-27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, certain terms are defined as provided in
this section.
   CITY COUNCIL. The chief legislative body of the City of Flint.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Commission empowered to make, adopt and apply a
municipal plan.
   STREETS. Includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, lanes, alleys,
viaducts and other ways.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Ch. 50
§ 2-28 MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION; TERMS OF MEMBERS; REMOVAL OF MEMBERS;
VACANCIES.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine members, who shall represent
insofar as possible different professions or occupations and each of the nine
wards of the City who shall be appointed by the Mayor. The appointments by the
Mayor shall always be subject to the approval of a majority vote of the City
Council. All members of the Planning Commission shall serve as such without
compensation and shall hold no other municipal office. The term of each member
shall be three years, except that three members of the first Commission to be
so appointed shall serve for the term of one year, three for a term of two
years and three for a term of three years. All members shall hold office until
their successors are appointed. All appointments to the Commission as they
existed prior to the effective date of this ordinance shall terminate on said
effective date. Members may after public hearing be removed by the Mayor for
inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of terms shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Mayor, subject to the approval by a majority vote of the
City Council.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939; Ord. 2544, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-28.1 CAUSES FOR REMOVAL FROM COMMISSION.
   Causes for removal of Commission members from the Commission by the Mayor
shall include malfeasance, misfeasance, nonfeasance generally, and in
particular:
   (a)   Failure to maintain reasonable familiarity with State statutes and
local ordinances and rules affecting the Commission or failure to be governed
thereby;
   (b)   Failure to disclose conflict of interest for purposes of
disqualification when a member has personal or monetary interest in the matter
involved, or will be directly affected by a decision of the Commission; and,
   (c)   Failure to attend three consecutive regular meetings or more than one-
half of the last 12 regular meetings may require a hearing by the Commission at
its next regular meeting following receipt of an attendance report from the
Zoning Administrator. The Commission shall determine at that hearing if the
circumstances warrant removal or continuation of said member(s) in the
appointment and shall transmit only a recommendation of removal to the Mayor.
   Upon a recommendation of removal being made the member shall not serve
further unless reappointed as a new member.
(Ord. 3095, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 2-29 CHAIRPERSON; RULES; RECORDS.
   The Planning Commission shall elect its Chairman from the appointed members
and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The term of Chairman
shall be determined by the Commission, which shall also adopt rules for
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which shall be a public record.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-30 EXPENDITURES; APPOINTMENT OF EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS FOR SERVICES.
   Expenditures of the Planning Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within
the amounts made available by appropriation by the City Council, which shall
determine the funds necessary for the Planning Commission work. Within the
amounts received, the Planning Commission may appoint, in the same manner as
with corresponding civil employees of the municipality, such employees as it
may deem necessary for its work. Within the amounts received, the Planning
Commission may also contract with City planners, engineers, architects, and
other consultants for necessary services. Insofar as possible, the necessary
services shall be obtained from regular City employees and through regular City
departments.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-31 MASTER PLAN FOR PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT OF MUNICIPALITY — TO BE MADE AND
ADOPTED; CONTENTS.
   The Planning Commission shall make and adopt a Master Plan for the physical
development of the City including any areas outside the City limits which in
the Planning Commission’s judgment bear relation to City planning. The plan,
with its accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive matter, shall show
the Planning Commission’s recommendations for the development of such
territory, including among other things the general location, character and
extent of streets, viaducts, subways, bridges, playgrounds and open spaces, the
general location of public buildings and other public property, and the general
location and extent of public utilities and transportation terminals whether
publicly or privately owned or operated for utilities and transportation
services and other purposes; also the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing,
vacating, abandonment, change of use or extension of any of the foregoing
streets, open spaces, buildings, public utilities or terminals as well as a
zoning plan for the control of the height, area, bulk, location and use of land
and buildings. As the work of making its plan progresses, the Planning
Commission may from time to time adopt and publish a part or parts thereof, any
such part to cover one or more major sections or divisions of the City or one
or more of the aforesaid or other functional matters to be included in the
Master Plan.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-32 SAME — SURVEYS AND STUDIES; PURPOSE.
   In the preparation of such plan the Planning Commission shall make careful
and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions and future growth
of the City and with due regard to its relation to the neighboring territory.
The plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a
coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the municipality and its
environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs best promote
health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare, as
well as efficiency and economy in the process of development; including, among
other things, adequate provisions for traffic, the promotion of safety from
fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of
the healthful and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good
civic design and arrangement, and the adequate provision of public utilities
and other public requirements, consistent with the efficient expenditure of
public funds.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-33 SAME — ADOPTION; PUBLIC HEARING; CERTIFICATION.
   The Planning Commission may adopt a plan as a whole by a single resolution
or may by successive resolutions adopt successive parts of the plan, said parts
corresponding with major geographic sections or divisions of the municipality
or with functional subdivisions of the subject matter of the plan, and may
adopt any amendment or extension thereof or addition thereto. Before the
adoption of the plan or any such part, amendment, extension or addition the
Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing thereon, notice of
the time and place of which shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City and in the official gazette, if any, of the
City. The adoption of the plan or of any such part or amendment or extension or
addition shall be by resolution of the Planning Commission carried by the
affirmative votes of not less than six members of the Planning Commission. The
resolution shall refer expressly to the maps and descriptive and other matter
intended by the Planning Commission to form the whole or part of the plan, and
the action taken shall be recorded on the map and plan and descriptive matter
by the identifying signature of the Chairman and the Secretary of the Planning
Commission. An attested copy of the plan or part thereof shall be certified to
the City Council and to the County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-34 APPROVAL OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   Whenever the Planning Commission shall have adopted the Master Plan of the
municipality or of one or more major sections or districts thereof no street,
square, park or other public right-of-way, ground, or open space, or public
building or structure, shall be constructed or authorized in the City or in
such planned section and district until the location, character and extent
thereof shall have been submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission;
provided, that in case of disapproval the Planning Commission shall communicate
its reasons to the City Council, which shall have the power to overrule the
disapproval by a recorded vote of not less than two-thirds of its entire
membership; provided further, that if the public street, space, building,
structure or utility be one the authorization or financing of which does not
fall within the province of the City Council, then the submission to the
Planning Commission shall be by the board having such jurisdiction and the
Planning Commission’s disapproval may be overruled by said board by a vote of
not less than two-thirds of its membership. The failure of the Planning
Commission to act within 60 days from and after the date of official submission
to the Planning Commission shall be deemed approval; provided further, that
wherever in regard to provisions herein before included or hereinafter referred
to, wherein the authorization or financing of the public street, ground, space,
building, structure or utility comes within the province of the City Council,
the City Council shall have power to overrule the recommendation of the
Planning Commission by a vote of not less than two-thirds of its entire
membership.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-35 POWERS GENERALLY.
   The Planning Commission shall have the power to promote public interest in
and understanding of the plan and to that end may publish and distribute copies
of the plan or of any report and may employ such other means of publicity and
education as it may determine. Members of the Planning Commission, when duly
authorized by the Planning Commission, may attend City planning conferences or
meetings of City planning institutes or hearings upon pending City planning
legislation; and the Planning Commission may, by resolution spread upon its
minutes, pay the reasonable traveling expenses incident to such attendance.
(The Planning Commission may from time to time recommend to the appropriate
public officials programs for public structures and improvements and for the
financing thereof.) It shall be part of its duties to consult and advise with
public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional, and other organizations, and with citizens, with relation to the
protecting or carrying out the plan. The Planning Commission shall have the
right to accept and use gifts for the exercise of its functions. All public
officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning Commission, within a
reasonable time, such available information as it may require for its work. The
Planning Commission, its members, officers and employees, in the performance of
their functions, may enter upon any land and make examinations and surveys and
place and maintain necessary monuments, and marks thereon. In general, the
Planning Commission shall have such other powers as are reasonably necessary
for and incidental to the promotion of municipal planning, in accordance with
the Charter, and ordinances of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-35.5 ZONING POWERS.
   The Planning Commission shall succeed to all powers heretofore granted by
law or ordinance to the Zoning Board of Appeal of the City of Flint, and from
and after the organization of the Planning Commission all powers and records of
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be transferred to the Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission in the exercise of its zoning powers shall endeavor to
preserve the existing rights of owners in residential, business and industrial
properties. Nothing contained in this section or in this ordinance shall be
construed to restrict or abrogate the power of the City Commission to continue
to enact zoning ordinances in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-36 NECESSITY FOR APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Whenever the Planning Commission shall have adopted that sort of a Master
Plan, or part thereof, relating to the major street system of the territory
within its subdivision jurisdiction, and shall have filed a certified copy of
such plan in the office of the County Register of Deeds of the county in which
such territory is located then no plat of a subdivision of land within such
territory shall be filed or recorded until it shall have been approved by such
Planning Commission and such approval entered in writing on the plat by the
Chairman and Secretary of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
§ 2-37 REGULATIONS GOVERNING SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   The following standards of design shall be applicable to all plats. These
provisions shall constitute a subdivision control ordinance for the purposes of
Section 186 of Public Act 288 of the Acts of 1967, the Subdivision Control Act.
   (a)   Conformity to City Plan. The subdivision shall be in harmony with the
Master Plan and the Official Map of the City.
   (b)   Relation to Adjoining Street System.
      (1)   In the new subdivision, provision shall be made for the
continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining subdivisions, or
their proper projection when adjoining property is not subdivided. The
Commission may, in addition, require the continuation of such minor streets as
are necessary for the extension of public improvements and for access to
adjoining properties.
      (2)   Insofar as is practicable, acute angles between streets at their
intersections shall be avoided.
      (3)   Where in the opinion of the Commission, topographical conditions
make such continuance or conformity impracticable or undesirable, or in cases
where the Commission itself adopts a plan or plat of a neighborhood or area of
which the subdivision is a part and this plan or plat provides coordination
with the street system of the City different from that of said continuations or
projections of existing streets and the subdivider’s plat conforms to such
neighborhood or area plat or plan of the Commission, the Commission may approve
the subdivider’s plat.
      (4)   Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider’s
tract, a sketch of the prospective future street system of the unsubmitted part
shall be furnished and the street system of the part submitted shall be
considered in the light of adjustments and connections with the street system
of the part not submitted.
      (5)   Where a tract is subdivided into lots of an acre or more, the
Commission may require an arrangement of lots and streets such as to permit a
later resubdivision in conformity with the street requirements specified in the
regulations.
   (c)   Access. There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to
streets, except where the control of the strips is definitely placed in the
City under conditions approved by the Commission. The subdividing of the land
shall be such as to provide each lot, by means of either a public street or
recorded way of permanent easement, with satisfactory access to an existing
public highway or to a thoroughfare as shown on the Official Map or Master
Plan.
   (d)   Street Widths.
      (1)   The width for streets shall conform to widths designated on the
Traffic Plan or Official Map. The minimum width for minor streets shall be
sixty (60) feet. The minimum width for alleys shall be twenty (20) feet. In
cases where the topography or other physical conditions make a street of the
required minimum width impracticable, the Commission may modify the
requirements.
      (2)   Streets designed to have one end permanently closed (cul-de-sac)
shall have a minimum width of forty (40) feet and shall be of such width at the
closed end as will permit a turning radius of not less than forty (40) feet.
Such streets shall not extend beyond the nearest intersection with another
street for more than nine hundred (900) feet unless otherwise approved by the
Commission for particular and appropriate reasons.
      (3)   Whenever necessary to permit the construction of curbs having a
minimum radius of twenty-five (25) feet at street corners without restricting
the sidewalk to less than normal width, the street line of such street corners
shall be rounded or otherwise set back sufficiently to permit such
construction. Normally the radius on the street line shall be not less than ten
(10) feet. Larger radii may be required by the Commission when, in its opinion,
the design is advisable.
   (e)   Easements.
      (1)   Except where alleys of not less than twenty (20) feet are provided
for the purpose, the Commission may require easements, not less than four (4)
feet in width, on each side of all rear lot lines, and on side lot lines where
necessary or, in the opinion of the Commission, advisable, for poles, wires,
conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and heat mains or other utility
lines. Easements of the same or greater width may be required along the lines
of or across lots where necessary for the extension of the existing or planned
utilities.
      (2)   If in the opinion of the Commission the most suitable and
reasonable locations for any of the utilities, such as sewers, storm drains,
water and gas pipes and electric pole lines and conduits, which are likely to
be required within the subdivision, either for the service thereof or for
service of areas in the surrounding territory, do not lie wholly within the
streets, including alleys if any, shown upon the plat, the Commission may
require, insofar as reasonable, provision to be made for the location of such
utilities on routes elsewhere than within said streets, either by the
dedication of public easements for the same as part of the plat or by the
filing of supplementary instruments which will adequately protect the public
interest in the proper location of the utilities.
   (f)   Blocks.
      (1)   Intersecting streets shall be so laid out that blocks between
street lines shall be not more than thirteen hundred twenty (1,320) feet in
length; except, that where, in the opinion of the Commission, extraordinary
conditions unquestionably justify a departure from this maximum. In blocks over
six hundred (600) feet in length, the Commission may require, at or near the
middle of the block a public walk connecting adjacent streets. Such walk shall
be six (6) feet in width and shall be intended for the use of pedestrians only.
      (2)   The width of blocks shall preferably be such as to allow one tier
of lots abutting upon each adjacent street.
   (g)   Lots.
      (1)   In all quadrangular lots, and so far as practicable all other lots,
the side lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines and radial to
curved street lines.
      (2)   Unless otherwise approved by the Commission for particular and
appropriate reasons, no interior lot designated for residence purposes shall be
less than fifty (50) feet in width nor less than five thousand (5,000) square
feet in an area, and no corner lot designated for residence purposes shall be
less than sixty (60) feet in width nor less than six thousand (6,000) square
feet in area.
      (3)   Lots with frontage on two parallel streets when less than two
hundred (200) feet in depth will not be permitted unless, in the opinion of the
Commission, conditions are deemed such as to render this requirement
undesirable.
   (h)   Building Lines. Lots, in subdivisions outside the City, located within
the area in which the Commission has jurisdiction and not in any area in which
zoning laws with setback provisions are in full force and effect, shall show
building lines in conformity to the zoning requirements for adjacent land
within the City or in keeping with proper zoning principles.
   (i)   Neighborhood Unit. These regulations concerning minor and local
streets, dead-end streets, block lengths and widths, and the size of lots, may
be modified by the Commission in the case of a plat for a large tract of land
which provides a community plan with a building development plan and
recreational or other community spaces adequate, in the opinion of the
Commission, for the circulation, recreational, light and air needs of the tract
when fully developed and populated and which provides for such legal
restrictions or other legal status as will assure the carrying out of the plan
in its entirety.
   (j)   Public Open Spaces.  Where a small park or other neighborhood
recreational open space shown on an official map or on a plan made and adopted
by the Commission is located in whole or in part in the applicant’s
subdivision, or in the vicinity of the applicant’s subdivision, the Commission
may require the dedication or reservation for park, playground or other
recreational purposes, in those cases in which the Commission deems the
requirements to be reasonable.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939; Ord. 2064, passed 7-1-1968; Ord. 3638, passed 4-
11-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Land Division Act, see MCLA § 560.186
§ 2-38 PROCEDURES FOR APPROVING PLATS; AMENDMENTS TO ZONING.
   The Planning Commission shall disapprove a plat within sixty days after the
submission thereof to it; otherwise such plat shall be deemed to have been
approved and a certificate to that effect shall be issued by the Planning
Commission on demand; provided, however; that the applicant for the
Commission’s approval may waive this requirement and consent to an extension of
the period. The ground of disapproval of any plat shall be stated upon the
records of the Commission. Any plat submitted to the Commission shall contain
the name and address of any person to whom notice of a hearing shall be sent,
and no plat shall be acted on by the Commission without affording a hearing
thereon. Notice shall be sent to the said address by registered mail of the
time and place of such hearing not less than five days before the date fixed
therefor. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of land immediately
adjoining the platted land, as their names appear upon the plats in the
official records of the City of Flint and the County of Genesee and their
addresses appear in the directory of the City or on the tax records of the City
or County. Every plat approved by the Planning Commission shall, by virtue of
such approval, be deemed to be an amendment of or an addition to or a detail of
the municipal plan and a part thereof. Approval of a plat shall not be deemed
to constitute or effect an acceptance by the public of any street or other open
space shown upon the plat. The Planning Commission may, from time to time,
recommend to the City Council amendments of the zoning ordinance or map or
additions thereto to conform to the Planning Commission’s recommendations for
the zoning regulation of the territory comprised within approved subdivisions.
The Planning Commission shall have the power to agree with the applicant upon
use, height, area or bulk requirements or restrictions governing buildings and
premises within the subdivision; provided, such requirements or restrictions do
not authorize the violation of the then then effective zoning ordinance of the
City. Such requirements or restrictions shall be stated upon the plat prior to
the approval and recording thereof and shall have the same force of law and be
enforceable in the same manner and with the same sanctions and penalties and
subject to the same power of amendment or repeal as though set out as a part of
the zoning ordinance or map of the City. Provided that such requirements,
restrictions or regulations do not conflict with the provisions of the then
effective zoning ordinance or map.
(Ord. 277, passed 2-14-1939)
ARTICLE VIII. DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
§ 2-39 CREATED.
   A Department of Community Development is hereby created in accordance with
Section 4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2074, passed 8-19-1968; Ord. 2431, passed 2-25-1994; Ord. 2549, passed 3-
8-1976)
§ 2-40 APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR OF DEPARTMENT.
   The head of the Department of Community Development shall be known as the
Director of Community Development and shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2074, passed 8-19-1968; Ord. 2549, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 2-41 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director of the Department of Community Development shall have the
following duties and responsibilities:
   (a)   The administration of Federal and State programs involving housing
(except public housing); community development, renewal, preservation and
conservation activities; relocation services; social services delivery
programs; and such other Federal and State programs as may be designated by the
Mayor or Federal statute;
   (b)   Shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have the authority to establish
divisions within the Department and to appoint all subordinates and employees
within the Department pursuant to personnel policies of the City developed
pursuant to the provisions of Section
4-302 of the Charter.
   (c)   May, with the approval of the Mayor, adopt rules for the
administration of the Department governing all personnel policies not governed
by the provisions of Sections
4-301 and
4-302 of the Charter.
(Ord. 2074, passed 8-19-1968; Ord. 2431, emergency ord. passed 2-25-1994; Ord.
2549, passed 3-8-1976)
§ 2-42 MANAGEMENT OF FISCAL AFFAIRS.
   The management of the fiscal affairs of said Department of Community
Development shall be the responsibility of the Director of Finance of the City
of Flint.
(Ord. 2283, passed 9-20-1971)
ARTICLE IX. RESERVED
ARTICLE X. RESERVED
ARTICLE XI. RESERVED
ARTICLE XII. DEPARTMENT OF POLICE
§ 2-75 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Department of Police in accordance with Section 4-
203 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2547, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-76 CHIEF OF POLICE TO BE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT; APPOINTMENT.
   The head of the Department of Police shall be known as the Chief of Police
and shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council and
shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2547, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-77 SERVING PROCESS; MAKING ARRESTS.
   The Chief of Police and all sworn officers of the Department of Police shall
have the same powers as sheriffs in serving civil and criminal process and
making arrests within the State, both within and without the City; they shall
have the power to arrest, without process, any person who, in the presence of
the arresting officer shall be engaged in violation of any State law or City
ordinance and to detain such person until complaint can be made and process
issued for his arrest, which complaint shall be made as speedily as possible
after the arrest.
(Ord. 2547, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-78 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE TO ESTABLISH DIVISIONS WITHIN DEPARTMENT
AND TO APPOINT SUBORDINATES AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Chief of Police shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have the
authority to establish divisions within the Department of Police and to appoint
all subordinates and employees within the Department of Police pursuant to
personnel policies of the City developed pursuant to the provisions of Section
4-302 of the Charter.
(Ord. 2547, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-79 RULES FOR ADMINISTRATION OF DEPARTMENT POLICY GOVERNING PERSONNEL
POLICIES.
   The Chief of Police shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have the
authority to adopt rules for the administration of Department policy governing
all personnel policies not governed by the provisions of Sections
4-301 and
4-302 of the Charter.
(Ord. 2547, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-80 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE AND SUBORDINATES.
   The Chief of Police and all subordinates and employees under him shall have
all other powers and duties provided by Federal and State law and the Charter
of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2547, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-80.1 FINGERPRINTING OF PERSONS ARRESTED FOR MISDEMEANOR FELONY VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   The Chief of Police for the City of Flint or his designee, is
authorized to take any person’s fingerprints, who has been arrested for a
misdemeanor, as soon as is practical after an arrest.
   (b)   If the individual accused thereafter is released without a charge made
against him, or the charge is dismissed and no other charge arising out of that
transaction or occurrence is made, or is found not guilty of the offense
charged, or a lesser included offense, the official taking or holding such
individual’s fingerprint information shall, pursuant to Michigan State law,
(being MCLA § 28.243), return such fingerprint information to the individual.
   (c)   The provisions of this section (b) shall not apply where a person
arrested has a prior conviction, except a misdemeanor traffic offense, unless a
judge of a Court of record, except Probate Court, by express order entered of
record, orders the return.
   (d)   Any person whose fingerprints may be taken, as authorized by this
section and who refuses to allow or resists the taking of his fingerprints,
after such person has been advised that his refusal constitutes a misdemeanor
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2855, passed 10-11-1982)
§§ 2-81 – 2-84 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XIII. DEPARTMENT OF FIRE
§ 2-85 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Department of Fire in accordance with Section 4-
203 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2548, passed 2-23-1976)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Protection, see
Ch. 19
§ 2-86 FIRE CHIEF TO HEAD DEPARTMENT; APPOINTMENT.
   The head of the Department of Fire shall be known as the Fire Chief and
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council and shall
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2548, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-87 POWERS AND DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall have the powers and duties set forth in
Chapter 19, Article II of the Code and such other provisions and duties as set
forth in State and Federal law, and such other duties as may be prescribed by
the Mayor.
(Ord. 2548, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-88 ESTABLISHMENT OF DIVISIONS WITHIN DEPARTMENT.
   The Fire Chief, with the approval of the Mayor, may establish divisions
within the Department of Fire as required for the efficient administration and
operation of said Department.
(Ord. 2548, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-89 ESTABLISHMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION
OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Fire Chief, with the approval of the Mayor, may establish such rules and
regulations as necessary for the efficient administration and operation of said
department, such rules to be adopted in the manner prescribed by Section
1-801 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2548, passed 2-23-1976)
ARTICLE XIV. DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 2-90 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Department of Parks and Recreation in accordance
with Section
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976)
Cross-reference:
   Parks, see
Ch. 33
§ 2-91 APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR.
   The head of the Department shall be known as the Director of Parks and
Recreation and shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-92 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation shall have general charge, supervision,
regulation, management and control of all public playgrounds, play fields,
indoor recreational centers, swimming pools operated by the City and other
recreation facilities provided by the City, and the equipment of the same, and
shall make and enforce rules for the same; he shall cooperate with the Board of
Education and other public authorities having charge of public recreational
facilities; he shall cooperate with the Planning Commission in matters coming
under its supervision; he shall have general charge, supervision and management
of all parks and parkways in the City and the protection, improvement,
adornment, maintenance and use of the same; he shall perform such duties as may
be prescribed by this Code or the Mayor of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-93 ESTABLISHMENT OF DIVISIONS WITHIN DEPARTMENT.
   The Director shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have authority to
establish such divisions in said Department of Parks and Recreation as shall be
necessary to carry out of the duties herein prescribed.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-94 APPOINTMENT OF SUBORDINATES AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation shall have the authority to appoint all
subordinates and employees within the Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-95 AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR TO ADOPT RULES NECESSARY FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF
DUTIES.
   The Director shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have the authority to
adopt such rules as may be necessary for the performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-96 EXISTING RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR SUPERVISION, MANAGEMENT AND OPERATION
OF PARKS.
   All existing rules and regulations for the supervision, management and
operation of parks owned and operated by the City of Flint shall remain in
effect until amended in the manner prescribed by Section
1-801 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
   Fees and deposits charged by the Department of Parks and Recreation shall be
established from time to time by resolution and ordinance of the City Council,
kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the Master Fee
Schedule of the City Code.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976; Ord. 3469, passed 3-12-2001)
§ 2-97 OBLIGATIONS AND ENCUMBRANCES INCURRED BY AND DEBTS AND MONIES DUE BOARD.
   All obligations and encumbrances legally incurred by the Flint Recreation
and Park Board shall become the obligation of the City of Flint upon the
effective date of this ordinance.
   All debts and monies due the Flint Recreation and Park Board shall, on the
effective date of this ordinance, become owing, due and an asset of the City of
Flint.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-98 RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS OF BOARD TO BE ASSUMED BY CITY.
   All rights and obligations incurred or acquired in accordance with law, by
contract or otherwise, by the Flint Recreation and Park Board, shall become
rights and obligations of the City of Flint as of the effective date of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 2546, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 2-99 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XV. DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
§ 2-100 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Department of Finance in accordance with Section
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2554, passed 4-12-1976)
Cross-reference:
   Finance and taxation, see
Ch. 18
§ 2-101 APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR.
   The head of the Department shall be known as the Director of Finance and
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, and
shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2554, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 2-102 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR GENERALLY.
   The Director of Finance shall have charge of the Department of Finance and
conduct of the financial affairs of the City, including the installation,
keeping and supervision of all accounts and financial records and he or she
shall have such other duties as may be prescribed by the Mayor.
   No purchase may be made pursuant to §§
18-18 through
18-21.13 inclusive, of this code,
Chapter 18, Article IV, unless the Director of Finance certifies that there is
an unencumbered balance in the appropriation against which the purchase is to
be charged to pay for the purchase.
(Ord. 2554, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 3627, passed 10-25-2004; Emergency Ord. -
auto repealed 61 days after enactment)
Charter reference:
   Publication of ordinances and resolutions after enactment, see Charter sec.
3-303
§ 2-103 APPOINTMENT OF SUBORDINATES AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Director of Finance shall have the authority to appoint all subordinates
and employees within the Department, except as to the Divisions of Assessments
and Treasury.
(Ord. 2554, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 2-104 AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR TO ADOPT RULES AND REGULATIONS NECESSARY FOR
PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES.
   The Director of Finance shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have
authority to adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
performance of his duties.
(Ord. 2554, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 2-105 DIVISIONS OF DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be in the Department of Finance, two divisions, viz: Assessments
and Treasury. The Director shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have
authority to establish such other divisions in said Department of Finance as
shall be necessary to carry out the duties herein prescribed.
   (a)   The Chief of the Division of Assessments shall be known as the City
Assessor who shall be appointed in accordance with Section
4-401 of the Charter of the City of Flint. It shall be the duty of the Assessor
to assess all real and personal property in the City of Flint at the times and
in the manner provided by the laws of the State of Michigan and the Charter of
the City for the assessment of the same; to prepare and extend all tax rolls
for the levying and collection of taxes in the City;
   Present the tax rolls, when approved by the Board of Review, the Mayor and
the City Clerk to have attached thereto their warrant for the collection by the
City Treasurer of the taxes enumerated therein, and deliver such tax rolls with
such warrant attached, to the City Treasurer. He shall also prepare and extend
all assessment rolls for the collection of the cost of public improvements when
the cost of such public improvements is to ve assessed against the particular
property deemed specially benefited thereby and after a hearing is had on each
of such assessment rolls as hereinafter provided, and after the warrant of the
Mayor and the City Clerk is attached hereto for the collection thereof, deliver
the same to the City treasurer for collection. He shall perform such other
duties as may be required by the Charter of the City of Flint, the laws of the
State of Michigan, by this Code or as directed by the Mayor.
      (1)   The City Assessor shall have the authority to appoint all
subordinates and employees within the Division of Assessments.
      (2)   The City Assessor shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have the
authority to adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
performance of his duties.
   (b)   The Chief of the Division of Treasury shall be known as City Treasurer
who shall be appointed in accordance with Section
4-401 of the Charter of the City of Flint. He shall be the custodian of all
public monies of the City; he shall collect all income taxes; he shall collect
all taxes and special assessments levied by proper authority upon the real and
personal property in the City; and he shall receive all monies payable to or
receivable by the City, except as herein otherwise provided. All monies
received for the City by any other officer or employee of the City, except as
herein otherwise provided, shall be paid into the City Treasury in accordance
with such rules as may be made by the Director of Finance. No monies of the
City shall be paid out except on the warrant on the City Treasurer,
countersigned by the Director of Finance. All monies of the City shall be
deposited with responsible banking institutions organized under the laws of the
State of Michigan or the laws of the United States of America, on such terms
and with such security as shall be prescribed by this Code and the general laws
of the State of Michigan.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall have the authority to appoint all
subordinates and employees within the Division of Treasury.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall, with the approval of the Mayor, have the
authority to adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
performance of his duties.
(Ord. 2554, passed 4-12-1976)
§§ 2-106 – 2-109 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XVI. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND UTILITIES
§ 2-110 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Department of Public Works and Utilities in
accordance with Section
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2569, passed 11-8-1976)
§ 2-111 DIRECTOR OF DEPARTMENT; APPOINTMENT, TERM.
   The head of the Department shall be known as the Director of Public Works
and Utilities and shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the
City Council, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2569, passed 11-8-1976)
§ 2-112 ESTABLISHMENT OF DIVISIONS WITHIN DEPARTMENT.
   The Director of Public Works and Utilities, with the approval of the Mayor,
may establish divisions within the Department of Public Works and Utilities as
required for the efficient administration and operation of the Department.
(Ord. 2569, passed 11-8-1976)
§ 2-113 APPOINTMENT OF SUBORDINATES AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Director of Public Works and Utilities shall have the authority to
appoint all subordinates and employees within the Department of Public Works
and Utilities pursuant to personnel policies of the City developed pursuant to
the provisions of Section
4-302 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2569, passed 11-8-1976)
§ 2-114 PROMULGATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR OPERATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Director of Public Works and Utilities with the approval of the Mayor,
shall promulgate rules and regulations necessary for the efficient
administration and operation of such Department, such rules to be adopted in
the manner prescribed in Section
1-801 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2569, passed 11-8-1976)
§§ 2-115 – 2-119 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XVII. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
§ 2-120 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS TO INCORPORATE.
   The application of Thomas Kay, Leo A. Greene and George Whyel to incorporate
an Economic Development Corporation of the City of Flint, and the articles of
incorporation attached thereto, are hereby approved.
(Ord. 2580, passed 1-10-1977; Ord. 2646, passed 6-12-1978)
§ 2-121 COPY OF ARTICLES TO BE FILED WITH SECRETARY OF STATE.
   Upon this ordinance taking effect, the City Clerk is hereby directed to file
a copy of this ordinance with the Secretary of State of the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 2580, passed 1-10-1977; Ord. 2646, passed 6-12-1978)
§ 2-122 APPLICANTS TO PROCEED TO INCORPORATE UPON FILING.
   That upon the filing as provided for in §
2-121 hereof the applicants named in §
2-120 above shall proceed to incorporate the Economic Development Corporation
of the City of Flint as a public corporation pursuant to Act 338 of the Public
Acts of 1974, as amended.
(Ord. 2580, passed 1-10-1977; Ord. 2646, passed 6-12-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Economic Development Corporations Act, see MCLA 125.1601 et seq.
§ 2-123 ARTICLE VOID IF INCORPORATION NOT ACCOMPLISHED WITHIN 90 DAYS AFTER
EFFECTIVE DATE.
   In the event the incorporation as provided for in §
2-122 above does not take place within ninety (90) days after the effective
date of this ordinance, then and in that event, this ordinance shall be void
and of no force and effect.
(Ord. 2580, passed 1-10-1977; Ord. 2646, passed 6-12-1978)
§ 2-124 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XVIII. DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 2-125 AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED.
   That pursuant to Act 197 of the Public Acts of 1975, as amended, a Downtown
Development Authority is herewith established.
(Ord. 2581, passed 1-10-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Downtown Development Authority, see MCLA 125.1651 through 125.1657 and
125.1659 through 125.1680
§ 2-126 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICT WITHIN WHICH AUTHORITY TO EXERCISE POWERS.
   Beginning at a point, formed by the intersection of the center lines of West
Fifth Avenue and Garland Street, thence easterly along the thence northerly
along the westerly line of Saginaw Street to the southerly line of Wood Street
(projected); thence easterly along the southerly line of Wood Street to the
westerly line of Industrial Avenue; thence southeasterly along the westerly
line of Industrial Avenue to the northerly line of Cornelia Street; thence west
along the northerly line of Cornelia Street to the easterly line of Saginaw
Street; thence south along the easterly line of Saginaw Street, to a point
which is south 03 deg. 07 min. 32 sec. west 824.62 feet from the southwest
corner of Block 5 of the recorded plat of Mcfarlan and Company’s Northern
Addition to the City of Flint; thence south 86 deg. 52 min. 28 seconds east
25.0 feet; thence north 48 deg. 07 min. 32 sec. east 125.0 feet; thence south
86 deg. 52 min. 28 sec. east 65 feet; thence south 41 deg. 52 min. 28 sec. east
72.0 feet; thence south 86 deg. 52 min. 28 sec. east 94.0 feet; thence south 41
deg. 52 min. 28 sec. east 45.0 feet; thence south 86 deg. 52 min. 28 sec. east
172.48 feet to the westerly right-of-way line of Martin Luther King Drive
south; thence on a curve to the left, radius 137.0 feet, chord bearing and
distance south 03 deg. 52 min. 33 sec. east 80.34 feet; thence continuing along
said street line south 41 deg. 52 min. 33 sec. east 25.56 feet; thence south 03
deg. 07 min. 32 sec. west 375.22 feet to the centerline of Fifth Avenue; thence
easterly along the centerline of Fifth Avenue to its intersection with the
centerline of Fred Tucker Drive; thence northeasterly and southeasterly along
said centerline of Fred Tucker Drive to its extension to the intersection with
centerline of Flint River; thence northerly along said centerline of the Flint
River to its intersection with an extension of the centerline of Geneseret
Street; thence easterly along said centerline of Geneseret Street to its
intersection with the west boundary of the I-475 right-of-way; thence southerly
along the west boundary of I-475 right-of-way to intersection with centerline
of Harrison Street; thence north along the centerline of Harrison Street to its
intersection with centerline of Seventh Street; thence westerly along
centerline of Seventh Street to its intersection with centerline of Beach
Street; thence northerly along the centerline of Beach Street to its
intersection with the centerline of Court Street; thence westerly along the
centerline of Court Street to intersection with centerline of Grand Traverse
Street; thence northerly along centerline of Grand Traverse to intersection
with centerline of Flint River; thence westerly along centerline of Flint River
to intersection with an extension of the northerly line of Lot 9, Block C,
Smith Stone and Turner Addition; thence easterly along said lot line to
westerly right-of-way line of Stone Street; thence southerly along said right-
of-way line to intersection with centerline of Water Street; thence easterly
along centerline of Water Street to intersection with centerline of Grand
Traverse; thence northerly along centerline of Grand Traverse to intersection
with First Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of First Avenue to
intersection with centerline of Lyon Street; thence northerly along centerline
of Lyon Street to its intersection with centerline of Second Avenue; thence
easterly along centerline of Second Avenue to intersection with centerline of
Garland Street; thence northerly along centerline of Garland to point of
beginning.
(Ord. 2581, passed 1-10-1977; Ord. 2792, passed 4-27-1981; Ord. 3089, passed 1-
23-1989)
§ 2-127 POWERS OF AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall have such powers as are now or may hereafter be
conferred on authorities established under Act 197 of the Public Acts of 1975,
as amended.
(Ord. 2581, passed 1-10-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Downtown Development Authority, see MCLA 125.1651 through 125.1657 and
125.1659 through 125.1681
§ 2-128 FINANCING OF ACTIVITIES.
   The activities of the Authority shall be financed from one or more of such
sources as may be authorized pursuant to Act 197 of the Public Acts of 1975, as
amended.
(Ord. 2581, passed 1-10-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Downtown Development Authority, see MCLA 125.1651 through 125.1657 and
125.1659 through 125.1681
§ 2-129 FILING AND PUBLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   That a certified copy of this ordinance shall be filed with the Michigan
Secretary of State in accordance with Section 3, paragraph (3) of Act 197 of
the Public Acts of 1975, and shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2581, passed 1-10-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Resolution of intent to create and provide for operation of authority;
public hearing on proposed ordinance creating authority and designating
boundaries of downtown district; notice; exemption of taxes from capture;
adoption, filing, and publication of ordinance; altering or amending
boundaries; agreement with adjoining municipality; agreement with qualified
township, see MCLA 125.1653
§ 2-130 DISSOLUTION OF AUTHORITY; DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY AND ASSETS.
   Upon completion of the purposes for which the Authority created herein was
organized, said Authority shall be dissolved by ordinance. All property and
assets of said Authority remaining after satisfaction of obligations of said
Authority shall belong to the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2581, passed 1-10-1977)
§ 2-131 BOND REQUIRED.
   That a bond shall be furnished in the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) by any persons serving in the capacity of Director, Chairman or
Treasurer of the Downtown Development Authority or any persons serving as a
Treasurer’s designee, such bond being payable to the Authority for use by the
Authority.
(Ord. 2653, adopted 7-24-1978)
§§ 2-132 – 2-140 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XIX. HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
§ 2-141 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this ordinance shall be the recognition, preservation, and
protection of historical, architectural, and archeological sites, buildings,
structures, objects, open spaces, and features, hereinafter referred to as
district resources, which are organized into historic districts significant to
the cultural, social, economic, political, architectural, and archaeological
heritage of the City of Flint. Further, the purpose of this ordinance is to
stabilize and improve property values, preserve neighborhoods, strengthen local
economy, foster civic beauty and pride and promote the use of historic
districts for education, pleasure, and welfare, pursuant to MCLA § 399.202.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-142 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this ordinance:
   (a)   ADDITION shall mean any construction which increases the height or
floor area of an existing district resource or adds to it (as a porch or
attached garage).
   (b)   ALTERATION shall mean construction, replacement, remodeling within or
to a district resource resulting in exterior change to the structural parts,
the location of openings, or the location or appearance of the district
resource but does not increase the overall dimensions.
   (c)   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS shall mean the written approval of the
Historic District Commission of plans for new construction, addition,
alteration, demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, restoration or
moving of district resources in designated historic districts.
   (d)   DEMOLITION shall mean the destruction, all or in part, of a district
resource within a designated historic district.
   (e)   DISTRICT RESOURCE shall mean the site, building, structure, object,
open space or feature to be found individually or in a related group within a
historic district.
      (1)   SITE shall mean a district resource that is related to important
historical events, a prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, an
institution or organization or an architectural district resource that is
ruined or vanished, where the location itself maintains historical or
archeological value regardless of the value of any existing architectural
district resources. Examples: historic marker, commemorative plaque,
archaeological site.
      (2)   BUILDING shall mean a residential, commercial, industrial or
institutional district resource created to shelter any form of human activity.
Examples: house, courthouse, jail, barn, church, theater, hospital, office
building.
      (3)   STRUCTURE shall mean a district resource made up of interdependent
and interrelated parts in a definite pattern of organization, often reflective
of an engineering design. Examples: bridge, dam, water tower, bell tower.
      (4)   OBJECT shall mean a district resource of functional, aesthetic,
cultural, historical, architectural, archaeological, or scientific value that
may be, by nature of design, movable yet related to a specific setting or
environment. Examples: statue, fountain, lighting fixture, sign, sundial.
      (5)   OPEN SPACE shall mean a district resource that is undeveloped land,
a naturally landscaped area, a formal or manmade landscape, or developed open
space significant as a connective link or buffer between other district
resources. Examples: naturally landscaped park, formal garden, vacant land,
parking lot.
      (6)   FEATURE shall mean a prominent or distinctive aspect, quality, or
characteristic of a designated historic district. Examples: landscaped
boulevard, brick paving, tree-lined street.
   (f)   ELEVATION shall mean a scale drawing of the side, front or rear
facades of a given district resource.
   (g)   HISTORIC shall mean the age of a district resource; however, there is
no age limit implied by the use of HISTORIC. Rather, the term shall apply to
any district resource that is significant to the overall appearance of a
historic district and that plays a role in the evolutionary growth of a
historic district’s streetscape.
   (h)   HISTORIC DISTRICT shall mean a geographically-defined area including a
district resource or a group of district resources, created by the City of
Flint for the purpose of preservation. The City of Flint may establish more
than one such HISTORIC DISTRICT. District resources within the boundaries of a
HISTORIC DISTRICT are related by historical, architectural, or archaeological
significance. For the purpose of clarification, however, a HISTORIC DISTRICT
may also consist of a single district resource unrelated to its surroundings in
historical, architectural, or archaeological significance and so designated by
this ordinance.
   (i)   HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION shall mean the member body created by the
City of Flint for the purpose of execution of this ordinance.
   (j)   HISTORIC PRESERVATION shall mean the protection, rehabilitation,
restoration, or reconstruction of district resources of historical,
architectural, or archaeological significance.
   (k)   HONORARY DESIGNATION shall mean recognition of important historical
events, institutions, or organizations related to district resources where the
district resources themselves are not necessarily historically,
architecturally, or archaeologically significant.
   (l)   NEW CONSTRUCTION shall mean planned district resources that are to be
constructed or placed within a designated historic district. Such planned NEW
CONSTRUCTION, because it will have a significant affect on the overall
appearance of a historic district and because it will play a role in the
evolutionary growth of a historic district’s streetscape, shall be treated as
“historic” by the Historic District Commission the same as older, existing
district resources.
   (m)   PRESERVATION STANDARDS AND GUIDE-LINES shall mean the preservation
principles which shall be considered by the Historic District Commission in
assessing the appropriateness of activities which will affect district
resources included in designated historic districts. General and nationally
accepted preservation standards will initially be used by the Commission.
However, it will be the duty of the Commission to develop more specific
guidelines within the parameters established by the nationally-accepted
preservation standards.
   (n)   RECONSTRUCTION shall mean the process of reproducing by new
construction the exact form and detail of a vanished district resource, or part
thereof, as it appeared at a specific time.
   (o)   REHABILITATION shall mean the revitalization of a district resource
through the introduction of modern mechanical systems, structural elements, and
decorative features. The modern improvements, however, should be sympathetic to
the district resource’s original style, size, color, and texture and should be
reversible.
   (p)   REPAIR shall mean the maintenance of or return to a state of utility
of district resources.
   (q)   RESTORATION shall mean the process of accurately recovering the form
and detail of a district resource as it appeared at a particular period of time
by removing later work, replacing missing elements, and enhancing original
work.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-143 HISTORIC DISTRICTS; CREATION; BOUNDARIES.
   (a)   Historic districts may be established only by enactment of an
ordinance. Before such establishment, a Historic District Study Committee,
containing representation from any existing historical preservation society,
shall be appointed by the City Council. The Historic District Study Committee
shall conduct studies and research and make a report on the historical,
architectural, and archaeological significance of districts, sites, buildings,
structures, objects, open spaces, and features in the City. The report shall
contain recommendations concerning the area to be included in the proposed
historic district. Copies of the report shall be transmitted for review and
recommendations to the City Planning Commission, Michigan Historical Commission
and the State Historical Advisory Council. Sixty (60) days after the
transmittal, the Historic District Study Committee shall hold a public hearing.
Not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the date of the public hearing, the
owners of all properties to be included in the historic district shall be given
written notice of the hearing.
      After the hearing, the Committee shall submit a final report with its
recommendations and those of the City Planning Commission and a draft of a
proposed ordinance to the City Council.
   (b)   The following historic districts are hereby established.
      Burroughs Park: Beginning at a point lying on the NW corner of Lot 136 of
Woodside Subdivision; thence Easterly on the NE corner of said lot; then
Southeasterly along the rear lot lines of Lots 136, 135, 134, 133, 132, 131,
130, 129 and 128, to a point lying on the SE corner of Lot 128; then Westerly
to the SW corner of said lot; thence Northwesterly along the platted Woodside
Subdivision line to the SW corner of Lot 131; then Westerly along said line to
the SW corner of Lot 138; then Northerly to the NW corner of said lot; then
Westerly to the Westerly platted Woodside Subdivision line; then Northerly
along said line to the NE corner of Avon St. and vacated Fifth St.; then
Easterly along said line to the SW corner of Lot 147; then Easterly along the
south lot line to the SE corner of said lot; then Northerly to the NW corner of
Lot 136, point of beginning.
      Capitol Theatre Building: Lots 2, 4 and 6, Block 3 of Village of Flint
River.
      Civic Park: Part of W 1/2 E 1/2 Sec. 2T7NR 6E Smith’s Res., beginning at
a point lying on the SW corner of Lot 26, Block 7 of Modern Housing Corporation
Addition; thence Northerly 92 ft.; thence Easterly along the rear lot lines to
the NE corner of Lot 18, Block 7; then Easterly to a point on the NW corner of
Lot 35, Block 8; thence Southeasterly along the rear lot lines to the SE corner
of Lot 21, Block 8; thence Southeasterly to the NE corner of Lot 9, Block 15;
thence Southerly along the rear lot lines to the SE corner of Lot 18, Block 15;
then Southerly to the NE corner of Lot 22, Block 25; then Southerly along the
rear lot lines to the centerline of Hamilton Avenue; thence Westerly along said
centerline extended to the centerline of Forest Hill Avenue; then Southerly
along said centerline to the centerline of Greenway Avenue extended; thence
Westerly along the centerline of Greenway Avenue, 675 ft.; thence Northerly 625
ft. to the SW corner of Lot 1, Block 20; then Northerly along the rear lot
lines to the NW corner of Lot 19, Block 20; thence Northerly to a point on the
SW corner of Lot 9, Block 19; then Northerly along the rear lot lines to the NW
corner of Lot 6, Block 19; thence Northerly to the SW corner of Lot 10, Block
17; thence Northerly along the rear lot lines to the NW corner of Lot 17, Block
17; thence Northerly to the point of beginning.
      Doyle School: Plat of Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8, being part of the
Reserve at near the Grand Traverse on Flint River. Part of Sec. 2 described as:
Beginning at a point on Easterly line of Saginaw St., S 03 deg 07 min 32
seconds W, 468.62 ft. from SW corner of Block 5, McFarlan & Co.’s Northern
Addition; then Easterly 183.58 ft.; then Northerly 186.41 ft. to C.L. McFarlan
St.; then Westerly along said C.L. to Easterly line of Saginaw St.; then
Southerly along said Easterly line to point of beginning.
      East Street: Beginning at a point lying on the SW corner of Lot 8 of
Pearson’s Out Lots; thence Northerly 127 ft. along the Westerly lot lines of
Lots 7 and 8; then Westerly to a point across East St. lying on the Easterly
lot lines of Lot 2, Block 24 of Village of Flint River, 55 ft. Southerly of the
NE corner of said lot; then Westerly 97 ft.; then Northerly 55 ft. to a point
lying on the Northerly lot line of said lot, 97 ft., west of the NE corner;
then Northerly to a point on the Southerly lot line of Lot 10, Block 25, 83 ft.
west of the SE corner of said lot; then Northerly 108 ft.; then Easterly 83 ft.
to a point lying 222 ft. Southerly of the SW corner of Third St. and East St.;
then Easterly to the east line of East St.; then Northerly to the NW corner of
Lot 3 E.H. Thomson’s Add.; then Easterly 170 ft. along said north lot line;
then Southerly 228 ft.; then Westerly 40 ft. more or less; then Southerly 114
ft. to a point on the north side of Second St.; 199.5 ft. west of the SE corner
of Lot 5 of E.H. Thomson’s Add.; then Southerly to a point on the south line of
Second St.; 84 ft. east of the SE corner of Second St and East St.; thence
Southerly 58 ft.; then Easterly 34.5 ft.; then Southerly 280 ft. to a point on
the north line of Third St.; 155 ft. east of the NE corner of Third St. and
East St.; thence Southerly to a point on the south side of Third St., 115.5 ft.
east of the SE corner of Third St. and East St.; thence Southerly 92.48 ft;
then Easterly 48 ft.; then Southerly 436 ft.; then Westerly 30 ft. more or
less; then Southerly to a point on the north line of Court St., 132 ft. east of
the NE corner of East St. and Court St.; then Westerly to point of beginning
except those areas commonly known as 524 E. 4th St. and 722 and 724 East St.
      Whaley House (as part of East Street): E.H. Thomson’s Add., Lot 18 an the
Northeasterly 99 ft. of Lot 1 except the Southwesterly 82.5 ft. of the
Southeasterly 90.75 ft; also except the Easterly 200 ft. of said Lot 18; also
except that part of said lots lying Westerly of the following described line:
Beginning at a point on the Northerly line of said Lot 18, 60 ft. Northeasterly
from Northwesterly corner of said lot; then Southerly to a point on Easterly
line of said Lot 1, 70 ft. Southeasterly from Northeasterly corner of said lot;
then Southerly to POE on the Southerly line of said Lot, 57 ft. Northeasterly
from Southwesterly corner of said lot.
      Elks Lodge Building: The Westerly 106.5 ft. of Lots 8 and 10, Block 5 of
Village of Flint.
      Galilee Baptist Church: Lot 29 of Maplewood Annex Subdivision.
      Grand Traverse Street: Beginning at a point lying on the NW corner of Lot
2, Block N of Stockton’s West Addition; thence Southerly 71 ft.; then Easterly
132 ft., to the west line of Grand Traverse St.; thence Northerly to the NE
corner of Lot 1, Day’s Addition; then Westerly 132 ft.; then Southerly 107.5
ft. to the SW corner of said Lot; thence Southerly 140 ft. along the Easterly
lot lines of Lots 5 and 6, Stockton’s West Add.; then Easterly 61.9 ft.; then
Southerly 82.5 ft. to the north line of Second St., 61.9 ft. west of the NW
corner of Grand Traverse St. and Second St.; then Southwesterly to a point on
the south line of Second St., 132 ft. west of the SE corner of Grand Traverse
St. and Second St.; then Southerly 165 ft.; then Westerly 37 ft.; then
Southerly 50 ft.; then Easterly 5 ft.; then Southerly 115 ft. to a point on the
north line of Third St., 164 ft. from the NE corner of Grand Traverse St. and
Third St.; then Southerly to the NW corner of Lot 2, Block N of Stockton’s West
Addition, point of beginning.
      Harwood Smith Residence (as part of Grand Traverse Street): Lots 7 and 6,
Block J of Stockton’s West Addition, except for the Easterly 42 ft. more or
less of Lot 6.
      Manning Street: Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, the Westerly 27 ft. of Lot 6, the
Southerly 58 ft. of Lots 6 and 7, Lot 8 and the Westerly 30.5 ft. of Lot 9,
Block 3 of J.D. Dort’s Addition; plus the entire right-of-way of Manning
Street, beginning at the intersection of Crapo and Manning; then Northeasterly
to a point lying 50 ft. east of the SW corner of Lot 8; plus the entire right-
of-way of Hunt Lane, beginning at the intersection of Hunt and Manning; then
Northerly to a point lying 102 ft. from said intersection.
      Oak School: Parts of Lots 1 and 2, all of Lots 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, Block
10 of Fenton Bishop’s Westerly Addition.
      Saginaw Street Bricks: Beginning at a point lying on the SE corner of Lot
5, Block 11 of Village of Flint; thence Northwesterly along the Western Right-
of-Way of Saginaw Street to the NE corner of Lot 1, Block 1; thence
Northeasterly to the NW corner of Lot 18, Block 1 of Village of Flint River;
thence Southeasterly along the Eastern Right-of-Way of Saginaw Street to the SW
corner of Lot 5, Block 20 of the Village of Flint River; thence Westerly to the
point of beginning.
      St. Paul’s Episcopal Church: Lots 1, 3 and 5, Block 4 of Village of Flint
River.
      Superintendent’s Cottage: Two acres including the immediate grounds area.
Easting 279-280, Northing 47-64-770 beginning at a point at the NE corner of
Thayer St. and West Court St.; thence Southerly 530 ft. more or less; then
Easterly 200 ft. more or less; then Northerly 200 ft. more or less; then
Westerly 200 ft. more or less; then Northerly 330 ft. more or less to the point
of beginning.
      Water Street:
         Durant-Dort Office Building (as part of Water Street): Lot 1, Block G
of Grand Traverse Subdivision.
         Nash Home (as part of Water Street): Lot 4, Block C of Mrs. Stewart’s
Addition.
         Market Fire Station (as part of Water Street): Beginning at a point
lying on the SE corner of Lot 13, Block D of Smith, Stone and Turner’s
Addition; thence Southwesterly to the SW corner of said lot; then Southerly to
the NW corner of Lot 3, Block G of Smith, Stone and Turner’s Addition; then
Southerly 40 ft. more or less along the western lot line of said lot; then
Easterly 132 ft. to the west line of Grand Traverse St.; then Northerly to
point of beginning.
      Carriage Factory District (as part of Water Street): Beginning at a pt.
lying on the NW cor of Lot 1, Blk E of Smith, Stone and Turner’s Addition;
thence NEly 132 ft. to the NW cor of Lot 13, Blk D of Mrs. Stewart’s Addition;
then NWly along the northern lot lines of Lots 13 and 1, to the NE cor of Lot
1; then NEly 96 ft. to the NW cor of Lot 4, Blk 3 of Grand Traverse
Subdivision; then NEly along the Nly lot lines of Lots 4, 5 and 6 to the NE cor
of Lot 6; then Sly along the edge of the Flint River to the SE cor of said Lot;
then SWly to the SW cor of Lot 3; then SWly 96 ft; then SWly along the Sly lot
lines of Lots 2 and 12, Blk D of Mrs. Stewart’s Addition, to the SW cor of Lot
12; then SWly 132 ft. to the SW cor of Lot 3, Blk E of Smith, Stone and
Turner’s Addition; then NWly along the east line of Grand Traverse St. to
P.O.B. except those areas commonly known as 301 and 307 Water St.
      White Seal Brewery: Beginning at a pt. lying on the NW cor of Lot 16 of
C.H. Abbott’s Out Lots; thence NEly 260 ft. along the Southern R.O.W. of 15th
St. to the Western R.O.W. of the I-475 Freeway; thence SEly along the Western
R.O.W. of I-475 to the north bank of Thread Creek; thence Wly along the
northern boundary of Thread Creek to the Eastern R.O.W. of Saginaw St.; thence
NWly to the P.O.B.
      The Sunlin-Hamady House: Part of Govt Lot 4 and part of the S 1/2 of NW
1/4 of Sec. 28 T8N R7E beg at the NE cor of Govt Lot 4 of sd Sec. 28 sd pt.
being the int of the cl of Branch Rd. with the E and W 1/4 line; then N 1° 07'
W, 18 ft.; then N 66° 57' W, 815.37 ft. to the E bank of Flint River; then S
35° 09' W along the bank of Flint River 733.51 ft.; then S 74° 58' E, 586.9
ft.; then S 80° 19' E, 625.24 ft. to the cl of Branch Road; then N 1° 07' W,
520 ft. to P.O.B.; except Ely 33 ft. containing 13.97 acres.
      Knight House: Village of Flint; Lots 2, 4 and 6, Blk 51.
      Carriage Town: The area bounded by a line beginning at the point created
by the intersection of the center line of the Flint River and the easterly row
line of N. Harrison Street, then north along the easterly N. Harrison Street
row line until it intersects the easterly row line of N. Saginaw Street, then
north along the N. Saginaw Street row line until it intersects the northerly
row line of E. Fifth Avenue, then west along the E. Fifth Avenue row line until
it intersects the northerly row line of W. Fifth Avenue; then west along the W.
Fifth Avenue row until it intersects the westerly row line of Begole Street,
then south along the Begole Street row line until it intersects the northerly
row line of W. Third Avenue, then west along the W. Third Avenue row line until
it intersects the westerly row line of Prospect Street, then south along the
Prospect Street row line extended until it intersects the center line of the
Flint River, then east along the Flint River center line to the point of
beginning (POB).
      Patterson Carriage Factory (Brownson Building): Village of Flint River;
Lots 2, 4 and 6, Blk 4.
      Patterson Building: Village of Flint River; Lot 9 and the S 4 ft. of E 90
ft. of Lot 7, Blk 3.
      Masonic Temple: Village of Flint River; Lot 9, Blk 4.
      Mott Foundation Building: Village of Flint River; Lot 1, Blk 2.
      First Federal Building: Village of Flint; Sly 32.75 ft. of Lot 9, Blk 3.
      Flint Journal Building: Village of Flint River; Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4: also
Nly 58.87 ft. of Lot 5, Blk 7.
      Edward T. Strong House: Woodcroft Estates; Lots 24 and 25.
      Stockton House: Stockton’s West Addition. E 115 ft of S 64.5 ft of Lot 4;
also land beg at NE cor of Lot 6; th Wly alg N line of Lot 6, 115 ft; th Sly
parl to Ann Arbor St, 12.5 ft; th Wly parl to Court St, 56 ft; th Sly parl to
Ann Arbor St to a pt 60 ft Nly at rt angle from N line of Bryan Place; th Ely
parl to Bryan Place to a pt 127.3 ft Wly at rt angle from W line of Ann Arbor
St; th Sly parl to Ann Arbor St, 15 ft; th Ely 127.3 ft to a pt on the W line
of Ann Arbor St, 21 ft S of SE cor of Lot 6; th Nly alg sd W line, 103.5 ft to
POB. Comb on 02/12/2005 of 40-13-282-015, 40-13-282-014, 40-13-282-013.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979; Ord. 2953, passed 5-28-1985; Ord. 3380, passed 9-
13-1998; Ord. 3632, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 3726, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 2-144 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION — CREATION; COMPOSITION.
   Pursuant to authorization granted in Act 169 of the Public Acts of 1970, as
amended, there is hereby created a Historic District Commission, hereinafter
referred to as “the Commission.” The Commission shall be an autonomous body
with specific powers and duties. The Commission shall consist of seven (7)
members appointed by the Mayor with no more than two (2) individuals from any
one ward. Members shall be appointed for three (3) year terms except the
initial appointments shall be made as follows. Three (3) members shall be
appointed to three (3) year terms, two (2) members shall be appointed to two
(2) year terms and two (2) members shall be appointed to one (1) year terms.
Thereafter all members shall be appointed for three (3) year terms. All members
shall be eligible for reappointment. In the event of a vacancy on the
Commission, interim appointments shall be made by the Mayor within two (2)
weeks of the vacancy to complete the unexpired term of the position. The Mayor
shall appoint at least two (2) members from a list of citizens submitted by a
duly organized and existing preservation society or societies and one (1)
architect, duly registered in this State, if the person is available for
appointment.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Local Historic Districts Act, see MCLA 399.201 through 399.215
§ 2-145 SAME — ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; QUORUM; VOTING.
   (a)   Organization. The Commission shall adopt bylaws governing its
organization and such rules and regulations as it deems appropriate for the
conduct of its business.
      The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson whose terms of office shall be fixed by the bylaws adopted by the
Commission. The Chairperson shall preside over the Commission and shall have
the right to vote. The Vice-Chairperson shall, in case of the absence or
disability of the Chairperson, perform the duties of the Chairperson.
   (b)   Meetings. The Commission shall in the bylaws provide for the frequency
of the its meetings and the manner in which the meetings shall be called. Said
Commission shall, however, meet at least once each calendar quarter.
      The Commission shall also establish in the bylaws minimum attendance
requirements for its members. Whenever the Commission determines that any of
its members have failed to meet the minimum attendance requirements which it
has established in its bylaws, it may request the Mayor to declare said
member’s office vacant.
   (c)   Quorum. Five (5) members shall constitute a quorum for conducting a
meeting of the Commission.
   (d)   Voting. The concurring vote of four (4) members shall be necessary for
approval of plans and for the adoption or modification of preservation
guidelines by the Commission. Motions or other actions by the Commission shall
also require a simple majority of the members.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-146 SAME — DUTIES AND POWERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Commission to review all plans for new
construction, addition, alteration, demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
repair, restoration, or the moving of district resources in a historic
district, and it shall have the power to pass upon such plans before a permit
for the activity can be granted. The Commission may authorize the building
official to review certain types of plans involving alteration, addition, or
repair of district resources in a historic district and to grant permits before
review by the Commission.
   The review of plans shall be based on established and nationally accepted
preservation standards known as “the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for
Rehabilitation” and the guidelines established in the bylaws of the Commission.
The guidelines developed by the Commission shall apply to all historic
districts and shall describe criteria related to the general compatibility of
exterior design, structural height, mass arrangement, texture, and proposed
building materials.
   The preservation guidelines shall be developed by the Commission as the
first order of business upon its creation, and shall be the subject of at least
one public hearing, and shall be approved by the City Council. In addition to
the preservation guidelines, the Commission shall give consideration to
historical, architectural, and archaeological values and significance of the
district resource and its relationship to the historical, architectural, and
archaeological value of the surrounding area, and to other factors, including
aesthetic, which it deems pertinent.
   Until such time as the Commission adopts the aforementioned preservation
guidelines, its review of plans shall be based on the established and
nationally accepted preservation standards known as “the Secretary of the
Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation” presented in the final report of the
Historic District Study Committee to the City Council on March 26, 1979.
   The Commission shall review only exterior features of a district resource;
interior arrangements shall not be considered unless they negatively impact
exterior features. Nor shall the Commission disapprove applications except as
provided in the previous paragraphs. The district resources to be considered
are limited to those within the historic districts described in §
2-143(b). It is the intent of this section that the Commission shall act as a
facilitator in order to work out feasible design and preservation solutions and
shall provide guidance to the property owners. The Commission shall be lenient
in its judgment of plans for new construction, addition, alteration,
demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, restoration, or moving of
district resources of little historical, architectural, or archaeological value
except when the aforementioned activities would seriously impair the
historical, architectural, or archaeological value and character of the
surrounding district resources of the surrounding area. The administration may
provide whatever professional assistance the Commission may deem necessary to
aid in its deliberations.
   The Commission shall have the power to issue a certificate of
appropriateness if it approves of the plans submitted for its review. The City
Building Official shall not issue a building permit except as otherwise noted
in this section until such certificate of appropriateness has been issued by
the Commission.
   The Historic District Commission may:
      (1)   Carry out, assist, and collaborate in studies and programs designed
to identify and evaluate additional district resources and historic districts
worthy of preservation under this ordinance as recommended by a duly appointed
Historic District Study Committee;
      (2)   Consult with and consider the ideas and recommendations of civic
groups, public agencies, and citizens interested in historic preservation;
      (3)   Inspect and investigate district resources which it has reason to
believe worthy of preservation;
      (4)   Disseminate information to the public concerning those district
resources deemed worthy of preservation, and may encourage and advise property
owners in the protection, enhancement, perpetuation, and use of other
recognized property of historic, architectural, and archaeological interest;
      (5)   Consider methods other than those provided for in this chapter for
encouraging and achieving historic preservation, and make appropriate
recommendations to the City Council and other bodies and agencies, both public
and private;
      (6)   Establish such policies, rules, and regulations as it deems
necessary to administer its duties as herein provided;
      (7)   Maintain and use its own funds to acquire property or gifts for
preservation purposes, grants from State or Federal governments, and to
administer such resources and acquisitions in accordance with purposes herein
provided.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-147 PROCEDURE FOR THE REVIEW OF PLANS.
   Application for a building permit for new construction, addition,
alteration, demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair, restoration, or
moving of any district resource in a historic district, shall be made to the
Building Official of the City Building and Safety Inspection Division. It will
be the responsibility of the Building Official in reviewing all applications
for building permits to scrutinize for district resources in historic districts
and so advise the applicant of the requirements.
   Fees charged by the City Building and Safety Inspections Division for
building permit applications within a historic district shall be comparable to
fees charged for building permit applications for nonhistoric areas. A
heightened fee will be authorized, however, if, after processing a
representative number of building permits from within historic districts, the
Building Official can document a heightened processing cost.
   When an application is determined to be for a district resource, then the
Building Official shall require that plans, and elevation as deemed necessary,
be submitted showing the extent of the proposed change in the district resource
in question and also showing its relation to adjacent district resources and
properties outside the district boundaries. The Building Official shall
transmit the application and accompanying plans, elevations, and other
information to the City of Flint planning staff for review. The staff will
review the plans and elevations for compliance with the general guidelines and
the applicable preservation standards. Where plans or elevations are not in
conformance with the general guidelines and preservation standards, the City
planning staff will consult with the district resource owner in order that
proper modifications to the plans or elevations may be made. The City planning
staff will make a recommendation to the Historic District Commission.
   The Commission shall meet within thirty (30) days of the application to
approve or disapprove such plans and elevations and, if approved, shall issue a
certificate of appropriateness, which is to be signed by the Chairperson,
attached to the application for a building permit, and immediately referred
back to the Building Official for issuance of the building permit.
   If the Commission disapproves of such plans and elevations, it shall state
its reasons for doing so and shall transmit a record of such action and reasons
therefore in writing to the building official and to the applicant by mail. The
Commission may advise what it thinks proper if it disapproves of the plans or
elevations submitted. The applicant, if desired, may make modifications to the
plans and elevations and shall have the right to resubmit the application at
any time after doing so. The failure of the Historic District Commission to
approve or disapprove of such plans and elevations within sixty (60) days from
the date of application for the building permit, unless otherwise mutually
agreed upon by the applicant and Commission, shall be deemed to constitute
approval and the Building Official shall proceed to process the application
without regard to a certificate of appropriateness.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-148 DEMOLITION OR MOVING OF DISTRICT RESOURCES.
   The demolition or moving of district resources of historical, architectural,
or archaeological significance shall be discouraged. The Commission may, at its
own discretion, issue a certificate of appropriateness for demolition or moving
of a district resource, but shall be guided by the following conditions in
exercising its judgment in granting such a certificate:
      (a)   The Building Official deems such district resource to be a hazard
to public safety or health and that repairs are impossible or infeasible, based
upon the conclusions of the Building Code Board of Appeals;
      (b)   Such district resource is a deterrent to a major improvement
program which will be of substantial benefit to the community and in no way can
be adapted or incorporated as part of the improvement;
      (c)   Retention of the district resource would cause undue financial
hardship to the owner, which would be defined as a situation where funds
required to retain the district resource would exceed market value.
   In cases where approval for demolition is granted, for reasons other than
public health or safety, such certificates shall not become effective until six
(6) months after the date of such issuance in order to provide a period of time
within which it may be possible to relieve a hardship, to cause the district
resource to be transferred to another owner who would retain the district
resource, or to develop alternative development plans.
   Deliberate or irresponsible neglect of a district resource resulting in
serious physical deterioration or health and safety hazards shall constitute
demolition by neglect and shall be a violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-149 YARD VARIANCES.
   Due to peculiar conditions of design and construction in historic districts
where district resources were often built close to lot lines, it is in the
public interest to retain a district’s historic appearance by making variances
to normal yard requirements. Where it is deemed that such variances will not
adversely affect neighboring district resources, the Commission may recommend
to the Zoning Board of Appeals that such variance to standard yard requirements
be made.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-150 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to prevent ordinary maintenance
or repair of any district resource within a historic district; nor shall
anything in this ordinance be construed to prevent the new construction,
addition, alteration, demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation, repair,
restoration, or moving of a district resource under a permit issued by the
Building Official prior to the passage of the ordinance.
   Historic districts, designated by this ordinance, may be exempted from
enforcement procedures only by the specific action of the City Council upon the
recommendation of the Historic District Commission. This exception applies only
in the case where recognition is an honorary designation as defined in §
2-142(k).
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-151 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of this ordinance shall be the responsibility of the
Division of Building and Safety Inspection of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§ 2-152 APPEALS.
   Any person jointly or severally aggrieved by a decision of the Historic
District Commission shall have the right to appeal the decision to the Building
Code Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2707, passed 4-23-1979)
§§ 2-153 – 2-161 RESERVED.
ARTICLE XX. FLINT AREA ENTERPRISE ZONE
§ 2-162 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   The City Council of the City of Flint hereby makes the following findings
and determinations:
   (a)   On December 21, 1994, the Secretary of the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development designated a portion of the City of Flint and the
Charter Township of Mount Morris as an enterprise community, the boundaries of
which are the same as the boundaries of the Flint Area Enterprise Zone
established hereby.
   (b)   The enterprise zone established hereby meets the requirements of Act
224 of the Public Acts of 1985.
   (c)   On April 28, 1997, the City Council for the City of Flint adopted a
resolution authorizing the execution of an Urban Cooperation Agreement between
the City of Flint and the Charter Township of Mount Morris, which agreement
authorized the incorporation of Flint Area Enterprise Community, Incorporated
to act as the coordinating and implementing body for the enterprise community’s
strategic plan.
   (d)   Flint Area Enterprise Community, Incorporated was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Michigan on May 22, 1997.
   (e)   The Board of Directors of Flint Area Enterprise Community,
Incorporated consists of eleven (11) Directors who live, work, own property, or
own a business that owns property in the City of Flint and/or the Charter
Township of Mount Morris and in the enterprise community.
   (f)   The eleven (11) members of the Board of Directors of Flint Area
Enterprise Community, Incorporated are appointed in the manner required for a
citizens’ council, are appointed for three (3) year terms consistent with the
requirements for a citizens’ council, and meet all other requirements for a
citizens’ council under Act 224 of the Public Acts of 1985.
(Ord. 3362, passed 2-9-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Enterprise Zone Act, see MCLA 125.2101 through 125.2123
§ 2-163 APPOINTMENT OF CITIZENS’ COUNCIL.
   A Citizens’ Council for the Flint Area Enterprise Zone is hereby established
to consist of 11 persons who live, work, own property, or own a business that
owns propertyin the enterprise community in the City of Flint and/or the
Charter Township of Mount Morris. The Board of Directors of Flint Area
Enterprise Community, Incorporated is hereby appointed as the Citizens Council
for the Flint Area Enterprise Zone.
(Ord. 3362, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 2-164 DUTIES OF CITIZENS’ COUNCIL.
   The Citizens’ Council shall perform all of the duties established for such
Council by 1985 PA 224, which duties include, without limitation, the
following:
   (a)   Advising the City of Flint and the Charter Township of Mount Morris on
all matters relating to enterprise zone activities;
   (b)   Advocating the promotion and development of business in the Flint Area
Enterprise Zone;
   (c)   Coordinate employer needs with available training programs and other
services;
   (d)   Upon the request of a qualified business, assist in the recruitment of
employees for existing or future jobs;
   (e)   Review each employer annually to ensure the employer’s continuing
status as a qualified business;
   (f)   Provide information, as requested, to the Michigan Enterprise Zone
Authority created pursuant to Act 224 of the Public Acts of 1985.
(Ord. 3362, passed 2-9-1998)
§ 2-165 ESTABLISHMENT OF ENTERPRISE ZONE.
   There is hereby established the Flint Area Enterprise Zone which is an area
legally described as follows:
   Beginning at the intersection of N. Saginaw Street and Coldwater Rd. and
continuing west to the intersection of Coldwater Rd. and Clio Rd., then south
along Clio Rd. to its intersection with Carpenter Rd., then east along
Carpenter Rd. to its intersection with Dupont Street, then south along Dupont
Street to its intersection with Pasadena Avenue, then east along Pasadena
Avenue to M. L. King, then south along M. L. King to its intersection with
Welch Boulevard, then west along Welch Boulevard to its intersection with
Dupont Street, then south along Dupont Street to its intersection with
Chevrolet Avenue, then south along Chevrolet Avenue to its intersection with
the Flint River, then east along the Flint River to its intersection with the
Thread Creek, then south along the Thread Creek as extended to intersect with
Fenton Rd., then south along Fenton Rd. to I-69, then east along I- 69 to I-
475, then north along I-475 to Robert T. Longway, then west along Robert T.
Longway to the Flint River, then north along the Flint River to the Gilkey
Creek, then east-southeast along the Gilkey Creek to I-475, then north along I-
475 to Davison Rd., then east along Davison Rd. to Franklin Street, then north
along Franklin Street to Dort Highway, then west-northwest along Dort Highway
to the Flint River, then northwest along the Flint River to Carpenter Rd., then
west along Carpenter Rd. to N. Saginaw Street, then north along N. Saginaw
Street to the point of beginning at the intersection of N. Saginaw Street and
Coldwater Rd.
(Ord. 3362, passed 2-9-1998)
ARTICLE XXI. PRINCIPAL STAFF OFFICIALS
§ 2-170 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF POSITIONS.
   In accordance with Section
4-202(B) of the Flint City Charter, the Mayor is hereby authorized to create
additional staff official positions, and their responsibilities, in the manner
provided in this article, provided however, that there shall be no more than
ten (10) principal staff officials serving at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 3144, passed 9-10-1990; Ord. 3195, passed 2-24-1992)
§ 2-171 RESOLUTION AND DESCRIPTION REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this article, the Mayor shall, at least
thirty (30) days before a principal staff official position is created under
this article, submit a resolution to the City Council stating the title and
description of responsibilities of each such position.
(Ord. 3144, passed 9-10-1990; Ord. 3195, passed 2-24-1992)
§ 2-172 DURATION OF POSITION.
   A principal staff official position created under this article and approved
by the City Council by adoption of a resolution shall continue until
terminated, or its responsibilities are consolidated with another principal
staff official position created under this article by the Mayor. The Mayor
shall submit prior written notice of the termination of a principal official
staff position, or the consolidation of the responsibilities of principal
official staff positions created under this article, to the City Council.
(Ord. 3144, passed 9-10-1990; Ord. 3195, passed 2-24-1992)
§ 2-173 EXPANSION OF RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Mayor may expand the responsibilities of a principal official staff
position appointed under Section
4-202A of the Flint City Charter or created under this article. In no event
shall a principal official staff position be paid more than one (1) salary for
the expanded and/or consolidated responsibilities. The Mayor shall submit prior
written notice of the expanded responsibilities of a principal official staff
position to the City Council.
(Ord. 3195, passed 2-24-1992)
§ 2-174 CREATION OF AUTHORIZED POSITIONS.
   Within fifteen (15) days of the effective date of this article the Mayor may
submit appropriate resolution(s) to the City Council identifying the title and
description of the responsibilities of any position authorized to be created
under this article, which position shall then have immediate effect.
Thereafter, any position authorized under this article shall be created as
prescribed in §
2-171.
(Ord. 3195, passed 2-24-1992)
ARTICLE XXII. OFFICE ON AGING AND HANDICAPPED
§ 2-175 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   As authorized by Section
4-203 of the Flint City Charter, there is hereby created a department to be
known as the Office on Aging and Handicapped.
(Ord. 3145, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 2-176 DIRECTOR — APPOINTMENT.
   The head of this Department shall be known as the Director of the Office on
Aging and Handicapped and shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council. The Director shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 3145, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 2-177 SAME — DUTIES.
   The Director of the Office on Aging and Handicapped shall be responsible for
the provision of specialized services, assistance and referrals to senior and/
or handicapped citizens of the City of Flint. The Director shall have such
other duties and responsibilities as prescribed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 3145, passed 9-10-1990)
CHAPTER 3: ADVERTISING AND SIGNS
Section
Article I. In General
   3-1 – 3-16   Reserved
Article II. Licenses and Permits
   
3-17   Definitions
   
3-18   Representation as licensed bonded sign hanger
   
3-19   License required
   
3-20   Issuance, renewal, revocation of license; fee
   
3-21   Insurance required; amount
Cross-reference:
   Christmas tree sales signs, see §
12-88
   Junk yard signs, see §
12-64
   Posting notices and the like in parks, see §
33-7
   Signs over sidewalks, limitations, see §
42-22
   Sign posts and fixtures on sidewalks, see §
42-24
   Sign regulations, general, see §§
50-142.5 et seq.
   Vehicles for advertising, see §
28-9
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§§ 3-1 – 3-16 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 3-17 DEFINITIONS.
   SIGN shall apply to any panel, painted, printed, plated, etched, routed,
screened, cut, formed, etc., either illuminated or not illuminated, advertising
or in concert with each other advertising a name(s) of a person, firm, service,
event, product or place or having any form of inscription, notice of publicity
therein. Included in this definition are SIGNS commonly referred to as posters,
placards, show bills, circulars, stickers, billboards and the like.
(Ord. 2499, passed 5-27-1975)
§ 3-18 REPRESENTATION AS LICENSED BONDED SIGN HANGER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to act as, engage
in the business of, to advertise, or to otherwise represent themselves as a
Licensed Bonded Sign Hanger in the City of Flint, unless such person, or an
authorized representative of such person, firm or corporation, shall have first
obtained a license as provided in this ordinance.
(Ord. 2499, passed 5-27-1975)
§ 3-19 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, erect, structurally alter,
maintain, service, repair, replace, move or remove any sign in the City of
Flint for which a permit is required unless the person shall have first
obtained a license as herein provided.
(Ord. 2499, passed 5-27-1975)
§ 3-20 ISSUANCE, RENEWAL, REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FEE.
   The City Clerk shall issue to any applicant who has complied with the
provisions of this ordinance, and whose application form is approved by the
Director of the Division of Building and Safety Inspection, a license for which
he is qualified, upon payment of a fee for each year or fraction thereof.
   Said fee shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the
City Code. Applications for renewal must be approved by the Director of
Building and Safety Inspection. License fees shall be due and payable on May
1st of each year at the City Clerk’s office and receipts from fees collected
shall be credited to the General Fund. Licenses may be revoked by the Director
of Building and Safety Inspection for making or causing to be made faulty or
dangerous installation, or for failure to obtain a permit for hanging.
(Ord. 2499, passed 5-27-1975; Ord. 3398, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 3-21 INSURANCE REQUIRED; AMOUNT.
   No license shall be issued unless the applicant shall first deposit with the
City Clerk a prepaid policy or certificate of liability insurance to be
accepted and approved by the Chief Legal Officer and issued by a company
authorized to do business in the State of Michigan, indemnifying the applicant
and the City of Flint in the sum of at least one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for injury or death to one person or three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) for injury or death to more than one person in any one
accident and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) property damage through the
operation of the business of sign hanging; the policy of insurance so deposited
shall contain a clause obligating the insurance company issuing the same to
give ten days’ written notice to the City Clerk before cancellation of the
policy or any part thereof, and the license for the operation of the sign
hanging business shall expire upon the lapse or termination of the policy of
insurance.
(Ord. 2499, passed 5-27-1975)
CHAPTER 4: AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
Section
   
4-1   Intent and purpose
   
4-2   Definitions
   
4-3   Installation permit required
   
4-4   Information required on application for installation permit
   
4-5   Authority of agents
   
4-6   Processing of applications and issuance or denial of permits
   
4-7   Certificate of operation
   
4-8   Permit system exemptions
   
4-9   Standards for density of emissions
   
4-10   Grading visible emissions
   
4-11   Fugitive air contaminant emissions
   
4-12   Objectionable odor prohibited
   
4-13   Open burning
   
4-14   Emission of particulate matters
   
4-15   Air contaminant or water vapor, when prohibited
   
4-16   Diluting and concealing emissions
   
4-17   Malfunction of equipment; scheduled maintenance; reporting
   
4-18   Tests for approval of certificates of operation
   
4-19   Notification and reports of tests by owner
   
4-20   Tests by Director
   
4-21   Methods and procedures
   
4-22   Air cleaning devices
   
4-23   Collected air contaminants
   
4-24   Enforcement
   
4-25   Violation; investigation and complaint; voluntary agreements; consent
orders
   
4-26   Additional powers of Director
   
4-27   Air Pollution Appeal Board
   
4-28   Consideration of appeals
   
4-29   Filing of appeal; notice and hearing
   
4-30   Composition of Board; appointment, term, compensation of members;
Secretary
   
4-31   Organization, rules, meetings, minutes and records of Board
   
4-32   Quorum of Board; vote of majority necessary to reverse decision and the
like; entered upon record
   
4-33   Duty of City departments to assist
   
4-34   Application for variances; fee; processing applications
   
4-35   Suspension of enforcement; reasons; variance
   
4-36   Factors considered in granting variance
   
4-37   Granting variance for hardship
   
4-38   Period for which variance granted; reports; conditions
   
4-39   Revocation or modification of variance; public hearing; notice
   
4-40   Severability
   
4-41   Repealer
   
4-42   Penalties
§ 4-1 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The City Council of the City of Flint hereby finds and determines that the
excessive emission of air contaminants within the corporate limits of the City
of Flint and the resultant effect upon the public health, safety and welfare
requires the adoption of a comprehensive and integrated plan of air pollution
control. The City Council further finds that it is necessary to the public
health, safety and welfare to reduce air pollution caused by excessive soot,
cinders, fly-ash, dust, noxious acids, fumes, gases and other air contaminants.
It is the purpose of this ordinance to provide additional and cumulative
remedies for the prevention and abatement of air pollution. Nothing in this
ordinance contained shall abridge or alter rights of action or remedies now or
hereafter existing unless otherwise herein specifically provided.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this ordinance certain terms are herewith defined:
   AIR CLEANING DEVICE or CONTROL EQUIPMENT. Any method, process or equipment
which removes, reduces or renders less noxious air contaminants discharged into
the outdoor atmosphere.
   AIR CONTAMINANT. A dust, particulate matter, fume, gas, mist, odor, smoke,
vapor or any combination thereof.
   AIR CONTAMINANT SOURCE. Any operation, machine, device, apparatus,
equipment, building or other physical facility which emits or may emit any air
contaminant.
   AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more air
contaminants or combination thereof in quantities, or characteristics and under
conditions and circumstances and of a duration which are or may become
injurious to human health or welfare, to animal life, or plant life or to
property, or which interferes with the enjoyment of life and property in this
City and excludes all aspects of employer-employee relationships as to health
and safety hazards.
   BOARD. The Air Pollution Appeals Board.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Utilities or his duly authorized
representative.
   EMISSION. The act of releasing or discharging any air contaminant into the
outdoor atmosphere from any air contaminant source.
   FUEL BURNING EQUIPMENT. Any device, contrivance or equipment and all
appurtenances thereto including ducts, breechings, control equipment, fuel-
feeding equipment, ash-removal equipment, combustion controls, stacks,
chimneys, used principally but not exclusively, to burn any fuel for the
purpose of indirect heating in which the material being heated is not contacted
by and adds no substance to the products of combustion. Such equipment
typically includes that used for heating water to boiling; raising steam, or
super-heating steam; heating air as in a warm air furnace; furnishing process
heat that is conducted through vessel walls; and furnishing process heat
indirectly through its transfer of fluids.
   FUGITIVE AIR CONTAMINANTS. Any air contaminant emitted from an unenclosed
operation into the outdoor atmosphere without passing or being conducted
through a flue pipe, stack, or other structure designed for the purpose of
emitting air contaminants into the outdoor atmosphere.
   INCINERATOR. A device specifically designed for the destruction, by burning,
of garbage or other combustible refuse or waste material, or both.
   MODIFICATION. Any physical change in, or change in the method of operation
of, any air contaminant source that increases the amount of any air contaminant
emitted by such source or which results in the emission of any air contaminant
not previously emitted from the same location.
   OBJECTIONABLE ODOR. Any odor present in the outdoor atmosphere which by
itself or in combination with other odors, is or may be harmful or injurious to
human health or welfare, which unreasonably interferes with the comfortable use
and enjoyment of life and property, or which creates a nuisance.
   ODOR. A sensation resulting from the stimulation of the human olfactory
organ.
   OPACITY. The degree to which emission reduces the transmission of light or
obscures an observer’s view.
   OPEN BURNING. A fire or any combustion process from which the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the outer air without passing through a
stack or chimney.
   OUTER AIR or OUTDOOR ATMOSPHERE. That portion of the atmosphere, outside of
buildings and other enclosures, stacks or ducts, which surrounds human, animal
or plant life, or property.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. The material, except uncombined water, that exists in a
finely divided form as a liquid or solid at standards conditions.
   PERMIT TO INSTALL or INSTALLATION PERMIT. A permit issued by the Director
authorizing the construction, installation or modification, of any process,
fuel-burning or control equipment, or incinerator in accordance with approved
plans and specifications.
   PERMIT TO OPERATE or CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION. A certificate issued by the
Director authorizing the use of any process, fuel-burning or control equipment,
or incinerator for the period indicated after it has been demonstrated that it
can be operated in compliance with this ordinance.
   PERSON. An individual person, trustee, court appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation,
business, trust, institution, agency, government corporation, municipal
corporation, city, county, municipality, district or other political
subdivision, department, bureau, agency or instrumentality of federal, State,
or local government, or other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
and duties.
   PROCESS or PROCESS EQUIPMENT. Any equipment, device, or contrivance for
changing any materials whatever or for storage or handling of any materials,
and all appurtenances thereto, including ducts, stacks, et cetera, the use of
which may cause any discharge of an air contaminant into the outdoor atmosphere
but not including fuel-burning equipment or incinerator as defined in this
ordinance.
   PROCESS WEIGHT. The total weight of all materials introduced into a source
operation, including solid fuels, but excluding liquids and gases used solely
as fuels, and excluding air introduced for purposes of combustion.
   PROCESS WEIGHT RATE. A rate established as follows:
      (1)   For continuous or long-run steady-state source operations, the
total process weight for the entire period of continuous operation or for a
typical portion thereof, divided by the number of hours of such period or
portion thereof.
      (2)   For cyclical or batch source operations, the total process weight
for a period that covers a complete operation or an integral number of cycles,
divided by the hours of actual process operation during such a period.
      (3)   When the nature of any process or operation of the design of any
equipment is such as to permit more than one interpretation of this definition
the interpretation that results in the minimum value for allowable emission
applies.
   RINGELMANN CHART. The chart published and described in the U.S. Bureau of
Mines Information Circular 8333, and on which are illustrated graduated shades
of gray to black for use in estimating the density of smoke.
   SALVAGE OPERATION. An operation conducted in whole or in part for the
salvaging or reclaiming of any product or material.
   SOURCE OPERATION. The last operation preceding the emission of an air
contaminant, which operation:
      (1)   Results in the separation of the air contaminant from the process
material or in the conversion of the process materials into air contaminants,
as in the case of combustion fuel; and
      (2)   Is not an air pollution abatement operation.
   SOURCE SAMPLE. A sample of the emission from an air contamination source,
collected for analysis from within a stack or an effluent stream.
   STACK or CHIMNEY. A flue, conduit or duct arranged to conduct an effluent to
the outer air.
   STANDARD CONDITIONS. A gas temperature of 70°F. and a gas pressure of 14.7
pounds per square inch absolute.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 3624, passed 9-27-2004)
§ 4-3 INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as herein provided, no person shall construct, install, or modify any
air contaminant source for use within the City unless an application has been
filed by the person or his agent in the office of, and has been approved by,
the Director and until an installation permit has been issued by the Director
for such construction, installation or modification. Upon written request and
submission of adequate supplementary data, the Director may amend the original
installation permit application. The Director shall not approve the
construction, installation, or modification unless the person demonstrates to
the satisfaction of the Director that the proposed air contaminant source will
comply with all applicable provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-4 INFORMATION REQUIRED ON APPLICATION FOR INSTALLATION PERMIT.
   An application for an installation permit shall include information required
by the Director on application forms prescribed by the Director or by written
notice. If considered by the Director to be pertinent to evaluation of the air
contaminant source for which a permit is sought, this information shall
include:
   (a)   Expected composition of effluent stream, both before and after the
installation of an air cleaning device, including emission rate, concentration,
exhaust gas volume and exhaust gas temperature.
   (b)   Expected physical and chemical characteristics of air contaminants.
   (c)   Detail of air cleaning device, if any, including the description,
design parameters and anticipated performance.
   (d)   Location and elevation of the emission point and other factors
relating to dispersion and diffusion of the air contaminant in the outer air,
and the relation of the emission point to nearby structures, window openings,
and other information necessary to appraise the possible effects of effluent.
   (e)   If necessary to ascertain compliance, the tests to be made of the
completed installation by the applicant. The Director may waive testing of
certain new installations if operation performance of similar installations
indicates this is not needed;
   (f)   Any other reasonable and pertinent information that may be required by
the Director.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-5 AUTHORITY OF AGENTS.
   When a person files plans and specifications as the agent of an owner, the
owner shall furnish the agent with a letter of authorization for filing of the
plans and specifications, and this letter shall be submitted with the plans and
specifications.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-6 PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS AND ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMITS.
   The Director shall within 30 days of the receipt of the application notify
the person applying for the permit in writing of its approval, conditional
approval or denial. Upon approval of the application, the Director shall issue
an installation permit for the construction, installation, or modification of
such air contaminant source. When an application is denied the person shall be
notified in writing from the Director of the reasons therefor and his or her
right to request a hearing before the Board.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-7 CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION.
   Not more than 30 days after the completion of the construction, installation
or modification for which the installation permit was issued, the person shall
apply in writing to the Director for a certificate of operation. After the
Director has determined that such air contaminant source is completed in
compliance with the installation permit and that such source will be operated
pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance and
pertinent State law, the Director shall issue a certificate of operation to the
permit holder. Such certificate shall be kept posted at all times on or near
the installation for which it was issued.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-8 PERMIT SYSTEM EXEMPTIONS.
   The permit does not apply to:
   (a)   Cooling and ventilating equipment.
      (1)   Cold storage refrigeration equipment;
      (2)   Comfort air conditioning or comfort ventilating systems not
designed to remove air contaminants generated by or released from specific
units of equipment;
      (3)   Natural draft hoods or natural draft ventilation;
      (4)   Water cooling towers and water cooling ponds not used for
evaporative cooling of process water or not used for evaporative cooling of
water from barometric jets or from barometric condensers.
   (b)   Cleaning, washing, or drying equipment.
      (1)   Vacuum cleaning systems used exclusively for industrial, commercial
or residential housekeeping purposes;
      (2)   Equipment used for portable steam cleaning;
      (3)   Blast cleaning equipment using a suspension of abrasive in water
and any exhaust system or collector serving them exclusively;
      (4)   Equipment used for washing or drying products fabricated from metal
or glass, if no volatile organic materials are used in the process and no oil
or solid fuel is burned;
      (5)   Laundry dryers, extractors or tumblers for fabrics cleaned with
only water solutions of bleach or detergents.
   (c)   Furnaces, ovens and heaters.
      (1)   Natural gas fired or liquefied petroleum gas-fired or electrically
heated furnaces for heat treating glass or metals, the use of which does not
involve molten materials;
      (2)   Porcelain enameling furnaces or porcelain enameling drying ovens
and any exhaust equipment serving them exclusively;
      (3)   Kilns for firing ceramic ware, heated exclusively by natural gas or
liquefied petroleum gas or any combination thereof, or heated electrically, and
any exhaust system or collector serving them exclusively;
      (4)   Blacksmith forges;
      (5)   Crucible furnaces, pot furnaces or induction furnaces, with a
capacity of 1,000 pounds or less each, in which no sweating or distilling is
conducted, nor any fluxing conducted utilizing free chlorine, chloride and
fluoride derivatives and ammonium compounds;
      (6)   Gas fuel and No. 1 and No. 2 fuel-oil burning equipment with a
maximum heat input of 100 million Btu per hour used for space heating, service
water heating or electric power generation and indirect heaters used in oil and
gas producing and process operations;
      (7)   Incinerators, fuel-burning and cooking equipment used in connection
with a structure designed and used exclusively as a dwelling for not more than
two families;
      (8)   Bakery ovens and confection cookers where the products are edible
and intended for human consumption, and any exhaust system or collector serving
them exclusively.
   (d)   Testing and inspection equipment.
      (1)   Laboratory equipment used exclusively for chemical or physical
analysis or experimentation except that used for controlling radioactive air
contaminants;
      (2)   Equipment used for hydraulic or hydrostatic testing;
      (3)   Equipment for inspection of metal products.
   (e)   Containers, reservoirs or tanks.  Used exclusively for:
      (1)   Dipping operations for coating objects with oil, waxes or greases,
or natural or synthetic resins containing no organic solvents;
      (2)   Electrolytic plating with, electrolytic polishing of, or
electrolytic stripping of the following metals: brass, bronze, cadmium, copper,
iron, lead, nickel, tin, zinc, and precious metals;
      (3)   Storage of butane, propane or liquified petroleum gas;
      (4)   Storage of lubricating oils.
   (f)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   Maintenance structural changes or minor repairs not involving any
change in the quality, nature or quantity of the emission of air contaminants
therefrom;
      (2)   Equipment used for any mode of transportation;
      (3)   Internal combustion engines;
      (4)   Vacuum pumps in laboratory or pilot plant operations;
      (5)   Unheated solvent dispensing containers or unheated solvent rinsing
containers of 60 gallons capacity or less;
      (6)   Portable brazing, soldering or welding equipment;
      (7)   Grain, metal or mineral extrusion presses;
      (8)   The following equipment and an exhaust system or collection serving
it exclusively:
         a.   Drop hammers or hydraulic presses for forging or metal working;
         b.   Die casting machines;
         c.   Equipment for surface preparation of metals by use of aqueous
solutions, except for acid solutions;
         d.   Atmosphere generators used in connection with metal heat treating
processes;
         e.   Equipment used exclusively for sintering of glass or metals, but
not exempting equipment used for sintering metal bearing ores, metal scale,
clay, fly-ash or metal compounds;
         f.   Equipment for carving, cutting, routing, turning, drilling,
machining, sawing, surface grinding, sanding, planning, buffing of polishing of
ceramic art work, leather, metals, plastic, rubber, wood or wood products, on a
nonproductive basis;
         g.   Photographic process equipment by which an image is reproduced
upon material sensitized to radiant energy.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 2501, passed 6-2-1975)
§ 4-9 STANDARDS FOR DENSITY OF EMISSIONS.
   No person shall cause or permit to be discharged into the outdoor atmosphere
from any single source of emission whatsoever any visible air contaminant of a
density darker than No. 1 on the Ringelmann Chart or greater than 20% opacity
except:
   (a)   Any visible air contaminant of a density not darker than No. 2 on the
Ringelmann Chart or greater than 40% opacity may be emitted for a period or
periods aggregating not more than three minutes in any sixty minute period, but
such emissions shall not be permitted on more than three occasions during any
twenty-four hour period.
   (b)   Where the presence of uncombined water vapor is the only reason for
failure of an emission to meet the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-10 GRADING VISIBLE EMISSIONS.
   (a)   Darkness of a visible emission of an air contaminant shall be graded
by using the Ringelmann Chart or by means of a device or technique which
results in measurements of equal or better accuracy.
   (b)   Opacity of a visible emission of an air contaminant shall be graded by
observers trained by and certified by the Michigan Air Pollution Control
Division, Department of Natural Resources using a device or technique approved
by and on file with the Michigan Air Pollution Control Commission.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-11 FUGITIVE AIR CONTAMINANT EMISSIONS.
   No person shall cause or permit the emission of any fugitive air contaminant
into the outdoor atmosphere from any air contaminant source whatsoever,
including but not limited to vehicular movement, transportation of materials,
construction, alteration, demolition, or wrecking, or commercially or
industrially related activities such as loading, unloading, storing or handling
of materials, without taking reasonable precautions to prevent such emission.
Whenever any fugitive air contaminant escapes from a building or equipment in
such manner and amount as to cause a nuisance or to violate §
4-9 or any other provisions of this ordinance, the Director may order that the
building or equipment in which a processing, handling and storage are done be
tightly closed and ventilated in such a way that the air contaminant leaving
the building or equipment is treated by abatement process before discharge into
the outdoor atmosphere.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-12 OBJECTIONABLE ODOR PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause, allow or permit the discharge of air contaminant
which cause or contribute to objectionable odor.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-13 OPEN BURNING.
   (a)   No person shall dispose of refuse or other waste materials by open
burning, or cause or permit open burning of refuse or other waste materials
except where permitted.
   (b)   No person shall maintain an open fire except as follows.
      (1)   Fire for noncommercial cooking of food for human consumption. Such
fire shall be fueled by charcoal or propane gas only.
      (2)   Fire for training personnel in methods of fire fighting upon
notification by writing to the Director.
      (3)   Fires for other essential purposes for which written approval has
been granted by the Director.
   (c)   Violation of this section shall be a municipal civil infraction
punishable by a fine pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 3623, passed 9-13-2004)
§ 4-14 EMISSION OF PARTICULATE MATTERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow the emission of particulate
matter from any air contaminant source in excess of:
   (a)   The maximum allowable emission rate listed in Table I.
   (b)   The maximum allowable emission rate specified as a condition of a
permit to install and certificate of operation.
   (c)   The maximum allowable emission rate as determined by Table II below
for sources not covered in subsections (a) and (b).
Table I
Particulate Matter Emission Schedule
Source                        Maximum Allowable Emission at Operation Conditions(a) (Pounds Particulate per
                              1,000 Pounds Gas)
                     Capacity
                     Rating
A.   Fuel burning in
equipment            Pounds
                     Steam
                     per Hour
Table I
Particulate Matter Emission Schedule
Source                                                                    Maximum Allowable Emission at Operation Conditions(a) (Pounds Particulate per
                                                                          1,000 Pounds Gas)
                                                              Capacity
                                                              Rating in
A.   Fuel burning equipment                                Pounds
                                                              Steam per
                                                              Hour
                                                              0 –       See Figure 1* for maximum emission limit
   1.   Pulverized coal (includes cyclone furnaces)     1,000,000
                                                              Over        Apply to Director for specific limit
                                                              1,000,000
                                                              0 – 100,000.65
                                                              100,000 – 0.65 – 0.45(b)
   2.   Other modes of firing coal (other than pulverize300,000
                                                              Over        Apply to Director for specific limit
                                                              300,000
                                                              Ratings in
B.   Incinerators                                          Pounds
                                                              Waste per
                                                              Hour
   1.   Residential apartments                          0 – 100   0.65
Commercial and industrial(c,d)                                Over 100    0.30
   2.   Municipal                                       All         0.30
   3.   Pathological(d)                                 All         0.20
C.   Steel manufacturing
   1.   Open hearth furnaces(d)                                     0.10
   2.   Basic oxygen furnaces(d)                                    0.10
   3.   Electric furnaces(d)                                        0.10
   4.   Sintering plants                                            0.20
   5.   Blast furnaces                                              0.15
   6.   Heating and reheating furnaces                              0.30
                                                              Total Plant
D.   Ferrous cupola operations                             Melt Rate
                                                              in Tons/
                                                              Hours
                                                              0 – 10    0.40
   1.   Production cupolas                              11 – 20   0.25
                                                              21 and over 0.15
   2.   Jobbing cupolas                                             0.40
   3.   Electric arc melting                                        0.10
   4.   Sand handling                                               0.10
E.   Chemical and mineral kilns                                        0.20
F.   Asphalt paving plants                                             0.30
G.   Cement manufacture (up to 15,000 barrels per day kiln
capacity)
   1.   Kiln — wet or dry process                                 0.25
   2.   Clinker coolers                                             0.30
   3.   Grinding, crushing and other material handling              0.15
      Note: It is required that a maximum allowable emission listing be applied for to the Director for any kiln installation which will result in a
total plant kiln capacity in excess of 15,000 barrels of cement per day.
                                                              Gas Flow
H.   Iron ore pelletizing                                  Rate
                                                              (SCFM)
                                                              Greater
                                                              than        Apply to Director for specific emission limit
                                                              600,000
                                                              300,000 – 0.10
   Grate kilns and traveling grates                        600,000
                                                              100,000 – b:0.15
                                                              300,000
                                                              100,000 or  0.20
                                                              less
Footnotes
   (a)   Fuel burning and refuse incineration limitations shall be calculated at 50% excess air.
   (b)   Emission limitations for specific ratings are determined by linear interpolation between the ranges shown.
   (c)   These emission limitations do not apply to domestic incinerators (defined as having not over 5 cubic feet of storage capacity.)
   (d)   Afterburner or approved equivalent is mandatory.
   (e)   Differentiation between jobbing and production foundries:
      Cupolas used in a jobbing foundry are the same as those used in a production foundry and will vary in size only according to the quantity of iron
melted per hour. However, the cupolas in a jobbing foundry will be run intermittently for just long enough at one time to pour the molds that are ready
on the foundry floor, job by job. This might be for a two to four-hour period per day for any number of days per week.
      Production foundry cupolas will melt continuously to pour a succession of molds that are constantly being prepared to receive this continuous flow
of iron. This could become 8 hours, 16 hours or 24 hours per day for any number of days per week.
*Editor’s note: Figure 1 is not set out herein, but is on file and available for inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
 
Table II
Allowable Rate of Emission Based on Process Rate(a)
Process Weight Rate Rate of Emission  Process Weight Rate Rate of Emission
Lbs/Hr Tons/Hr      Lbs/Hr            Lbs/Hr Tons/Hr      Lbs/Hr
Table II
Allowable Rate of Emission Based on Process Rate(a)
Process Weight Rate Rate of Emission  Process Weight Rate Rate of Emission
Lbs/Hr Tons/Hr      Lbs/Hr            Lbs/Hr    Tons/Hr   Lbs/Hr

100    0.05         0.55              16,000    8.00      16.5
200    0.10         0.88              18,000    9.00      17.9
400    0.20         1.40              20,000    10.00     19.1
600    0.30         1.83              30,000    15.00     25.2
800    0.40         2.22              40,000    20.00     30.5
1,000  0.50         2.58              50,000    25.00     35.4
1,500  0.75         3.38              60,000    30.00     40.0
2,000  1.00         4.10              70,000    35.00     41.3
2,500  1.25         4.76              80,000    40.00     42.5
3,000  1.50         5.38              90,000    45.00     43.6
3,500  1.75         5.95              100,000   50.00     44.6
4,000  2.00         6.52              120,000   60.00     46.3
5,000  2.50         7.58              140,000   70.00     47.8
6,000  3.00         8.56              160,000   80.00     49.0
7,000  3.50         9.49              200,000   100.00    51.2
8,000  4.00         10.4              1,000,000 500.00    69.0
9,000  4.50         11.2              2,000,000 1,000.00  77.6
10,000 5.00         12.0              6,000,000 3,000.00  92.7
Footnotes
   (a)   Interpolation of the data in this table for process weight rates up to
60,000 lbs/hr shall be accomplished by use of the equation:
   E = 4.10P0.67 and interpolation and extrapolation of the data for process
weight rates in excess of 60,000 lbs/hr shall be accomplished by use of the
equation E = 55.0P0.11 - 40, where E = rate of emission in lbs/hr and P =
process weight in tons/hr.
   Process weight — The total amount of all material introduced into a source
operation, including solid fuels, but excluding liquid fuels and gaseous fuels
when these are used as fuels and air introduced for purposes of combustion.
   Process weight rate — For continuous or long-term operations: The total
process weight for the entire period of operation or for a typical portion
thereof, divided by the number of hours of such period or portion thereof.
   For batch operations: The total process weight for a period which covers a
complete operation or an integral number of cycles, divided by the hours of
actual process operation during the period.
 
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-15 AIR CONTAMINANT OR WATER VAPOR, WHEN PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or permit the emission of an air contaminant or water
vapor including an air contaminant whose emission is not otherwise prohibited
by this ordinance, or an air contaminant or water vapor which reacts or may
react with any other air contaminant or natural air, and which causes or will
cause detriment to the safety, health, welfare or comfort of any person or
which causes or will cause damage to property or business.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-16 DILUTING AND CONCEALING EMISSIONS.
   Unless prior written approval is obtained from the Director, no person shall
build, erect, install or use any article, machine, equipment or other
contrivance, the sole purpose of which is to dilute or conceal an emission
without resulting in a reduction in the total release of air contaminants to
the outdoor atmosphere. This section does not apply to the control of odors.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-17 MALFUNCTION OF EQUIPMENT; SCHEDULED MAINTENANCE; REPORTING.
   (a)   In the case of shutdown of control equipment for necessary scheduled
maintenance unaccompanied by shutdown of the air contaminant source, the intent
to shutdown such equipment shall be reported to the Director at least 24 hours
prior to the planned shutdown. This prior notice shall include, but is not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Identification and location of the specific control equipment to be
taken out of service;
      (2)   The expected length of time that the control equipment will be out
of service;
      (3)   The nature and quantity of emissions of air contaminants likely to
occur during the shutdown;
      (4)   Description of the maintenance of the control equipment.
   (b)   In the event that any air contaminant source, control equipment or
related facility breaks down in such a manner as to cause the emission of air
contaminants in violation of this ordinance, the person responsible for such
equipment shall immediately notify the Director of such failure or breakdown,
and provide a written statement giving all pertinent facts, including the
expected duration of the break. The Director shall be notified when the
condition causing the failure or breakdown has been corrected and the equipment
is again in operation.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-18 TESTS FOR APPROVAL OF CERTIFICATES OF OPERATION.
   Before issuance of a certificate of operation, the Director may require the
owner of an air contaminant source, at the owner’s expense, to conduct source
emission tests in conformity with §§
4-19 and
4-21 in order to provide to the Director that the source is in compliance with
the ordinance and with the conditions specified in the installation permit.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-19 NOTIFICATION AND REPORTS OF TESTS BY OWNER.
   Tests shall be conducted in the manner set forth in the application or by
another method acceptable to the Director and the results of such test shall be
submitted to the Director.
   (a)   At least seven days before source emission tests are conducted
pursuant to §
4-18 the owner of an air contaminant source, or his authorized agent, shall
notify the Director in writing of the time and place of the tests and who will
conduct them. The Director shall have the opportunity to witness these tests.
   (b)   Results in tests conducted pursuant to §
4-18 shall be submitted to the Director in a format prescribed by the Director
within 30 days after the last date of the tests and the report shall be signed
by the person or persons responsible for the tests.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-20 TESTS BY DIRECTOR.
   The Director may conduct separate or additional tests of an installation on
behalf of the City at a reasonable time and at the City’s expense. Sampling
holes, safe scaffolding and pertinent allied facilities, but not instruments
and sensing devices, as needed shall be requested in writing by the Director
and provided by, and at the expense of the owner of the installation at such
points as the Director requests. The owner shall provide a suitable power
source to the point of testing so that sampling instruments can be operated as
required. Analytical results of the samples collected by the Director shall be
furnished to the owner.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-21 METHODS AND PROCEDURES.
   Sampling and analytical determinations to ascertain compliance with this
ordinance shall be made in accordance with the methods and procedures
acceptable to the Director.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-22 AIR CLEANING DEVICES.
   An air cleaning device shall be installed and maintained and operated in a
satisfactory manner and in accordance with existing laws and this ordinance.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-23 COLLECTED AIR CONTAMINANTS.
   Collected air contaminants shall be removed and disposed of in conformity
with existing laws and this ordinance and at such intervals as are necessary to
maintain the equipment at the required operation efficiency. Collection and
disposal shall be performed in a manner so as not to introduce air contaminants
to the outer air.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-24 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Director is hereby charged with the enforcement of this ordinance and he
may make such appropriate decisions, rulings or orders and he may institute
such legal proceedings as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
ordinance. All decisions, rulings and orders of the Director shall be subject
to review by the Air Pollution Appeal Board as provided herein.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-25 VIOLATION; INVESTIGATION AND COMPLAINT; VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS; CONSENT
ORDERS.
   (a)   Whenever the Director has information that any person is violating
this ordinance by causing or permitting air pollution, the Director shall make
a prompt investigation. If after such investigation, he finds that such
violation exists, he shall enter into a voluntary agreement with such person as
provided in subsection (2).
   (b)   In consideration of the provisions of this section or other sections
of this ordinance, the Director, after due notice, may enter into a voluntary
agreement with a person to abate air pollution under conditions agreed upon by
the Director and the person, which agreement may provide for the enforcement of
its term by specific performance.
   (c)   If in the opinion of the Director the person violates the terms of the
agreement the Director can proceed to enforce the conditions of the agreement
by order or by the institution in a Court of competent jurisdiction of an
action for specific performance of such other legal or equitable relief as the
Director deems appropriate.
   (d)   Whenever a person other than a party to the agreement feels himself or
herself aggrieved by an agreement entered pursuant to subsection (2), he may
file a sworn petition with the Board within 30 days of the issuance of notice
of the agreement setting forth the grounds and reasons for his complaint and
asking for a hearing of the matter involved. Thereupon the Board shall set a
date for a hearing to be held not more than 60 days from the date the petition
is filed and shall notify the petitioner thereof. At the hearing the petitioner
and any other interested party may appear, present witnesses and submit
evidence. A final order or determination of the Board upon the matter following
the hearing shall be conclusive.
   (e)   If a voluntary agreement under this section is not entered into within
a reasonable time, set by the Director, the Director may issue and serve upon
the person complained against a written notice, together with a copy of the
complaint, which shall specify the facts which are the basis for the alleged
violation and a proposed order for corrective action which states the time
schedule and standards and provisions of this ordinance that are to be met by
the person complained against. If a person who is served with a complaint and
proposed order agrees with the proposed restrictions of polluting content,
waste or pollution and period of time for abatement of pollution which the
Director deems necessary, and notifies the Director thereof, unless the person
complained against requests a hearing before the Board within 30 days after he
receives the order, disposition of the case may be made with the approval of
the Director by stipulation or consent order. An order adopted by the Director
or the Board shall be final.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-26 ADDITIONAL POWERS OF DIRECTOR.
   In addition to the powers set out in §
4-25, the Director may also:
   (a)   Control and abate air pollution in accordance with this ordinance.
   (b)   Make, modify or cancel decisions, rulings or orders which require, in
accordance with the provisions of this ordinance, the control of air pollution.
   (c)   Institute in a court of competent jurisdiction proceedings to compel
compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.
   (d)   Accept, or when deemed necessary by him, require to be submitted to
him, and consider for approval plans for air cleaning devices or any part
thereof and inspect the installation for compliance with the plans.
   (e)   Enter and inspect any property at reasonable times and places pursuant
to reasonable notice for the purpose of investigating either an actual or
suspected source of air pollution for ascertaining compliance or noncompliance
with this ordinance. Any information relating to secret processes, or methods
of manufacture or production obtained in the course of the inspection or
investigation shall be kept confidential. If in connection with such
investigation or inspection, samples of air contaminants are taken for
analysis, a duplicate of the analytical report shall be furnished promptly to
the person who is suspected of causing such air pollution.
   (f)   Receive and initiate complaints of air pollution in alleged violation
of this ordinance and take action with respect thereto provided in this
ordinance.
   (g)   Encourage voluntary cooperation by all persons in controlling air
pollution.
   (h)   Cooperate with the appropriate agencies of the United States, the
State of Michigan, or other states or any interstate agencies or international
agencies with respect to the control of air pollution.
   (i)   Do such other things as he may deem necessary, proper or desirable in
order that he may enforce this ordinance.
   (j)   Issue installation permits and certificates operation of air
contaminant sources and control equipment and to require reports of the
operation of the air contaminant sources.
   (k)   Determine by means of field studies and sampling the degree of air
pollution in the City of Flint.
   (l)   Prepare and develop a general comprehensive plan for the control or
abatement of existing air pollution and the control or prevention of any new
air pollution.
   (m)   Conduct and supervise programs of air pollution control education
including the preparation and distribution of information relating to air
pollution control.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-27 AIR POLLUTION APPEAL BOARD.
   Any person taking exception to any decision, ruling, or order issued by the
Director may appeal to the Air Pollution Appeal Board.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-28 CONSIDERATION OF APPEALS.
   The Board shall consider appeals from the decision of the Director in order
that the provisions of this ordinance may be reasonably applied and substantial
justice done where practical difficulties are apparent or unnecessary hardship
would result in carrying out the strict letter of this ordinance. The Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the decision, ruling or
order appealed from and shall make such determination as in their opinion ought
to be made in the premises, if the case involved is, in its judgment, not in
violation of the intent of this ordinance, and if public health and safety will
not be jeopardized.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-29 FILING OF APPEAL; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   Such appeal shall be filed within ten (10) days after the decision, ruling
or order complained of, by filing with the Secretary of the Board, a notice of
appeal directed to the Board specifying the grounds thereof and the relief
sought. A filing fee shall be posted by the applicant at the time of filing of
the appeal to cover the cost of the hearing. Such filing fee shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. The Director
shall forthwith furnish to the Board all papers relating to the decision,
ruling or order which is appealed. The Board, upon receiving notice of the
appeal, shall fix a time and place for the hearing thereof, which date shall
not be less than five (5) nor more than thirty (30) days after the date of
filing of the appeal, and shall give written notice thereof by certified mail
to all interested parties. Such an appeal shall act as a stay of the decision,
ruling, or order in question until the decision of the Board is rendered. At
the hearing, the appellant, his agent or attorney may appear. Witnesses may be
called by the appellant, and the Board shall hear evidence which may be
produced by the appellant, or by the Director concerning the appeal. The Board
shall, after the hearing has been completed, issue its decision in writing to
the appellant within ten (10) days after the hearing which decision shall
either affirm, reverse, or modify in whole or in part the decision, ruling, or
order issued by the Director.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 3399, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 4-30 COMPOSITION OF BOARD; APPOINTMENT, TERM, COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS;
SECRETARY.
   The Board shall consist of seven (7) members who shall be residents of the
City who shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by a majority of the City
Council elect. One (1) member shall be a licensed doctor of medicine,
preferably with a background in public health; one (1) member shall be a
registered professional engineer, preferably trained and experienced in matters
of air pollution measurement and control; one (1) member shall be an attorney-
at-law; one (1) member shall be a representative of industrial management; one
(1) member shall be a representative of business management; one (1) member
shall be a representative of organized labor; and one (1) member shall be
representative of the general public. The initial appointments to the Board
shall be as follows: two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of one (1)
year, two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, and three
(3) members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be made for a term of three (3) years. Members appointed to
the Board shall serve without compensation. The Director shall be Secretary ex
officio, without vote, of the Board.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-31 ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS, MINUTES AND RECORDS OF BOARD.
   The Board shall organize, elect its Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and such
other officers as they deem necessary or desirable, all of whom shall have
voting privileges, and adopt rules for its own government in accordance with
this ordinance. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson, and at such other times as the Board may determine.
   Such Chairperson, or in his absence the Vice-Chairperson may administer
oaths to all witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be
a public record.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-32 QUORUM OF BOARD; VOTE OF MAJORITY NECESSARY TO REVERSE DECISION AND THE
LIKE; ENTERED UPON RECORD.
   Five members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall act by
resolution or motion, and the concurring vote of the majority of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse any decision, ruling or order of the Director, or
to decide in favor of an applicant in any matter on which it is required to
pass under this ordinance, or to the effect any variance from the requirements
stipulated in this ordinance. The grounds of every such decision, ruling or
order shall be set forth upon the record.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-33 DUTY OF CITY DEPARTMENTS TO ASSIST.
   The Board may call upon the several City departments for assistance in the
performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of such departments to
render such assistance to the Board as may be reasonably be required.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-34 APPLICATION FOR VARIANCES; FEE; PROCESSING APPLICATIONS.
   Any person may apply to the Board for a variance from the provisions of this
ordinance. Applications for variances shall be filed with the Secretary of the
Board and shall be accompanied by an application fee. Said fee shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. Such
application shall contain the name and address of the applicant, the premises
and installation for which the variance is sought, a description of the
installation, and the reason or reasons for seeking the variance.
   The Board shall process applications for variances in the same manner as an
appeal from a decision, ruling or order of the Director.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 3399, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 4-35 SUSPENSION OF ENFORCEMENT; REASONS; VARIANCE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance, the Board may suspend
the enforcement of the whole or any part of this ordinance in the case of any
person who show that the enforcement thereof would be inequitable or
unreasonable as to him, or the Board may suspend the enforcement thereof for
any reason deemed by it to be sufficient to shows that the enforcement thereof
would be an unreasonable hardship upon the person; and upon any suspension of
the whole or any part of this ordinance, the Board shall grant to the person a
variance therefrom.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-36 FACTORS CONSIDERED IN GRANTING VARIANCE.
   In determining under what conditions and to what extent a variance may be
granted, the Board shall give due recognition to the progress which the person
requesting the variance has made in eliminating or preventing air pollution.
The Board shall consider the reasonableness of granting a variance conditioned
upon the person effecting a partial control of the particular air pollution or
a progressive control of the air pollution over a period of time which it
considers reasonable under all the circumstances; or the Board may prescribe
other and different reasonable requirements with which the person receiving the
variance shall comply.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-37 GRANTING VARIANCE FOR HARDSHIP.
   The Board may grant a variance from the provisions of this ordinance, and
suspend the enforcement thereof as to any person who shows that in the case of
the person and of the activity which the person then operates that a compliance
by him with the provisions of this ordinance, and that the acquisition,
installation, operation and maintenance of facilities and equipment required or
necessary to accomplish the compliance, would constitute an undue hardship on
the person and would be out of proportion to the benefits to be obtained
thereby. A variance shall not be granted under the provisions of this section
where the person applying thereof is causing air pollution which is injurious
to the public health. Any variance granted shall not be construed as to relieve
the person who shall receive it from any liability imposed by other law or the
Board for maintenance of a nuisance.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-38 PERIOD FOR WHICH VARIANCE GRANTED; REPORTS; CONDITIONS.
   Any variance granted pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance shall be
granted for such period of time, not exceeding one year, as is specified by the
Board at the time of granting it, but any variance may be continued from year
to year. Any variance granted by the Board may be granted on the condition that
the person receiving it shall make reports to the Board periodically, as the
Board shall specify, as to the progress which the person has made toward
reaching a compliance with the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-39 REVOCATION OR MODIFICATION OF VARIANCE; PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   The Board may revoke or modify by written order, after a public hearing held
upon not less than ten (10) days’ notice, any order permitting a variance.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-40 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or word
contained in this ordinance shall be declared invalid for any reason
whatsoever, such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this
ordinance which shall remain in full force and effect, and to this end the
provisions of this ordinance are hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-41 REPEALER.
   That Ordinance No. 2205, entitled “An Ordinance to Control the Excessive
Emission of Air Pollution Contaminants Within the Corporation Limits of the
City of Flint and the Resultant Effect Upon the Public Health, Safety and
Welfare and to Adopt a Comprehensive and Integrated Plan of Air Control Found
by the City Commission of the City of Flint to be Necessary to the Public
Health, Safety and Welfare to Reduce Air Pollution Caused by Excessive Soot,
Cinders, Fly-Ash, Dust, Noxious Acids, Fumes, Gases and Other Air Contaminants,
to provide tor the Enforcement Hereof, to Create an Air Pollution Appeals Board
and to Prescribe its Powers and Duties, to Provide a Penalty for the Violation
Hereof,” and to Repeal Ordinance No. 17, entitled “An Ordinance Regulating the
Production or Emission of Smoke from any Chimney, Smoke Stack or Other Source
Within the Corporation Limits of the City of Flint, and to Provide a Penalty
for Violations Thereof, approved November 20, 1917, together with all
amendments thereto,” approved April 13, 1970, is hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
§ 4-42 PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not exceeding three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days in the
City or County Jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion
of the Court. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such violation
shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this
section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the
amendment of any section of this ordinance whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
(Ord. 2494, passed 5-12-1975)
CHAPTER 5: AIRPORT
Section
Article I. In General
   
5-1   Definitions
   
5-2   Purpose of chapter; compliance with other regulations
   
5-3   Fiscal year operation
   
5-4   Responsibility for supervision and control
   
5-5   Charges for use of property and facilities
   
5-6   Collection of rentals
   
5-7   Free services not to be provided
   
5-8   Disposition of revenues; maintenance and sufficiency of rates
   
5-9   Restricted areas
   
5-10   Soliciting, bill posting and the like
   
5-11   Vehicles for hire
   
5-12   Use of roads and walks
   
5-13   Dogs and other animals
   
5-14   Lost and abandoned articles
   
5-15   Gambling and gambling devices
   
5-16   Disorderly conduct
   
5-17   Care and preservation of property
   
5-18   Weapons and explosives
   
5-19   Special activities
   
5-20   Posting of regulations; enforcement of chapter
Article II. Motor Vehicle Regulations
   
5-21   Roads, walks and the like
   
5-22   Permit to enter movement or landing areas required
   
5-23   Same — classification; display
   
5-24   Same — equipment required to qualify for regular permit
   
5-25   Same — conditions attached to special permit
   
5-26   Right-of-way to be yielded to aircraft; manner of operation
   
5-27   Crossing landing areas, runways and the like
   
5-28   Air traffic light signals
   
5-29   Special traffic and parking regulations
Article III. Fire Regulations
   
5-30   Applicability of Chapter 19; conflicting provisions
   
5-31   Designation and posting of restricted areas
   
5-32   Storage of rubbish, waste paper and the like
   
5-33   Storage of flammable liquids
   
5-34   Cleaning oil and rubbish from maintenance hangar floors
   
5-35   Cleaning of engine or aircraft parts
   
5-36   Use of open flames or high heat in aircraft maintenance
Article IV. Aircraft Fueling and Defueling
   
5-37   Schedule of proposed services; indemnification and insurance; required
facilities
   
5-38   Monthly reports to Director
   
5-39   Service required; fees; fuel
   
5-40   Transfer of fuel within building prohibited
   
5-41   Transportation of fuel
   
5-42   Storage of fuel
   
5-43   Depositing fuel, oil and the like on airport surface
Article V. Aircraft Operations
   
5-44   General rules
   
5-45   Ground operations
   
5-46   Flight operations
Article VI. Commercial Operations
Division 1. Generally
   
5-47   Compliance
   
5-48   Reserved
   
5-49   Reserved
   
5-50   Personnel
   
5-51   Hours of operation
   
5-52   Liability insurance
Division 2. Specific Operations
   
5-53   Aircraft sales
   
5-54   Air freight
   
5-55   Aircraft fuel and oil dispensing
   
5-56   Airframe and/or power plant repair
   
5-57   Air taxi service
   
5-58   Aircraft rental
   
5-59   Flight training; generally
   
5-60   Flight training; building requirements
   
5-61   Aerial chemical application service
   
5-62   Specialized commercial flight services
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   AIRPORT. Bishop International Airport, located at Flint, Michigan.
   AIRPORT CONTROL ZONE. The area of air above the ground for a radius of five
nautical miles from the airport, as modified by the Administrator, FAA, for
appropriate instrument approaches, within which aircraft are subject to the
orders and authority of the airport control tower.
   APPROACH CONTROL FREQUENCY. The radio frequency in use by the airport
control tower for communicating with aircraft approaching the airport while
operating under IFR (Instrument Flight Rules).
   APRON. Any paved area for use of aircraft other than taxiways or runways.
   DIRECTOR OF AERONAUTICS. The individual duly appointed by the Mayor to
manage the Department of Aeronautics, or such person as may be authorized to
carry out the duties of that position in the event of his absence or a vacancy
in such position.
   FIRE WATCH. A person assigned, with suitable fire extinguishing equipment at
the ready, having no other duties, at the scene of an operation with fire-
producing potential, to combat any fire or eliminate any fire hazard.
   GAS SERVICE AREA. Any area in the immediate vicinity of fixed gasoline
dispensing equipment, and any area so designated and posted by the Director of
Aeronautics.
   GROUND CONTROL FREQUENCY. The radio frequency in use at the airport for
communicating with aircraft on the ground, vehicles and other ground equipment.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport designated for the landing and takeoff
of aircraft, including the runways and certain sodded areas.
   MOVEMENT AREA. Those areas of the airport designated for the transiting of
aircraft on the ground and vehicles from one location to another, including
taxiways, aprons, ramps, roads and certain sodded areas.
   RAMP. The portion of any apron which is immediately adjacent to and forms a
part of the entrance to a hangar.
   RESTRICTED AREA. Any area designated and posted by the Director of
Aeronautics wherein entry or use thereof is limited.
   RUN-UP. The operation of an aircraft engine, while standing stationary, for
purposes of warm-up, testing, inspection or the like.
   RUNWAY. A paved area in the landing area designated exclusively for the
landing and takeoff of aircraft.
   SAFETY CAN. A brilliant red colored container with safety closure equivalent
to Type 1 as approved, listed and labeled by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc.
   TAXIWAY. Those areas in the movement area designated for the ground movement
of aircraft and vehicles.
   TOWER FREQUENCY. A radio frequency in use by the airport control tower for
communicating with aircraft engaged in flight operation.
   TRAFFIC PATTERN. The standard flight path within the airport control zone
for aircraft operating in the vicinity of the airport, to be followed under the
direction and subject to the authority of the airport control tower.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2165, passed 9-29-1969; Ord. 2537, passed 12-
22-1975; Ord. 2759, passed 2-25-1980)
§ 5-2 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER; COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   This ordinance is adopted in the interest of and is designed to promote
public safety, health and welfare. Every person firm or corporation shall
comply with and obey all provisions and requirements contained herein and
orders of the Director of Aeronautics issued pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-3 FISCAL YEAR OPERATION.
   The Bishop Airport shall be operated upon the basis of a fiscal year
beginning on July 1 of each year and ending on June 30 of the following year.
(Ord. 1423, passed 2-17-1958)
§ 5-4 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The operation, maintenance and management of the Bishop Airport shall be
under the immediate supervision and control of the Director of Aeronautics.
(Ord. 1423, passed 2-17-1958; Ord. 2537, passed 12-22-1975)
§ 5-5 CHARGES FOR USE OF PROPERTY AND FACILITIES.
   Charges for the use of the properties and facilities of Bishop Airport and
the services rendered in connection therewith, shall be as prescribed in Ord.
1423, as amended.
§ 5-6 COLLECTION OF RENTALS.
   All rentals shall be paid monthly in advance. Revenues through coin machines
shall be collected monthly or more often as the machines are emptied. Charges
for gasoline shall be paid in cash at the time of delivery except in certain
cases where monthly credit accounts shall have been approved by the Director of
the Department of Finance.
(Ord. 1423, passed 2-17-1958; Ord. 1988, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2537, passed 12-
22-1975)
§ 5-7 FREE SERVICES NOT TO BE PROVIDED.
   No free service shall be furnished by Bishop Airport to the City or any
person, firm or corporation public or private, or to any public agency or
instrumentality.
(Ord. 1423, passed 2-17-1958; Ord. 1988, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 5-8 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES; MAINTENANCE AND SUFFICIENCY OF RATES.
   The rates hereinbefore established are estimated to be sufficient to provide
for the payment of the expenses of administration and operation of the Bishop
Airport and such expenses for the maintenance thereof as may be necessary to
preserve the same in good repair and working order; to provide for the payment
of the interest upon and the principal of all bonds payable therefrom, as and
when the same shall become due and payable, and for the creation of a reserve
for the payment of principal and interest as required in this ordinance; and to
provide for such other expenditures and funds for said airport as are required
by this ordinance. Rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time by the
City Council so as to produce the foregoing amounts, and the city covenants and
agrees to maintain at all times such rates for services furnished by the said
airport as shall be sufficient to provide for the foregoing.
(Ord. 1423, passed 2-17-1958)
§ 5-9 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   Where public safety, welfare or efficient operation of the airport
reasonably require limited access thereto, the Director of Aeronautics shall
establish restricted areas and post the same as being closed to the general
public. No person shall enter any such posted restricted area except:
   (a)   Persons assigned to duty therein;
   (b)   Persons authorized by the Director of Aeronautics;
   (c)   Aircraft passengers, when directed by a person authorized under
subsection (b) above, entering the aircraft parking apron area to embark or
disembark.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-10 SOLICITING, BILL POSTING AND THE LIKE.
   Except where specifically authorized in writing by the Director of
Aeronautics, no person upon the airport shall:
   (a)   Solicit for any purpose;
   (b)   Offer for sale or sell any merchandise or services;
   (c)   Post, distribute or display any signs, advertisements, circulars or
other printed or written matter.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-11 VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   No person shall operate from the airport any vehicle for hire unless the
operation has first been approved by the Director of Aeronautics.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2537, passed 12-22-1975)
§ 5-12 USE OF ROADS AND WALKS.
   All persons moving about the airport shall travel only on roads, walks or
places provided for the particular class of traffic, and all persons shall so
use such roads, walks or places as to not hinder or obstruct their proper
purpose.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 42
§ 5-13 DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS. 
   Dogs and other animals, including birds and the like, shall be restrained by
leash or otherwise confined under control at all times while on the airport. No
animals shall be permitted in the terminal building or landing area, except
“seeing eye” dogs in company of their masters.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-14 LOST AND ABANDONED ARTICLES. 
   Any person finding lost articles at the airport shall deposit the same with
the Flint Police Department, which articles shall be disposed of by the
Director of Purchases in the same manner as all other lost, abandoned or
confiscated property. No person shall intentionally abandon any personal
property on the airport.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2537, passed 12-22-1975)
§ 5-15 GAMBLING AND GAMBLING DEVICES.
   No person shall engage in or conduct gambling in any form, or operate
gambling devices, lotteries or the like on the airport.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-16 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall commit any disorderly, obscene, indecent or unlawful act,
nor any nuisance, on the airport.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-17 CARE AND PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY. 
   No person shall foul, soil, sully or litter the airport, its properties or
facilities, nor injure, destroy or disturb the same in any way. Refuse and
other materials shall be placed only in proper receptacles provided for that
purpose.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-18 WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   No person except peace officers, Federal, airport or aircraft carrier
employees, members of the United States armed forces on official business or
other legally authorized persons, shall carry any firearms, explosives, or
concealed weapons on the airport unless first granted permission in writing by
the Director of Aeronautics; provided, however, that encased sporting guns may
be carried if handled in compliance with all laws and posted rules of the
Director of Aeronautics. All persons at the time of entry upon the airport in
possession of any article so proscribed shall immediately surrender the same at
the office of the Director of Aeronautics, or to any police officer.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-19 SPECIAL ACTIVITIES.
   No air meets, aerial demonstrations or other special activities, whether on
the ground or in the air, shall be held at the airport other than by permit
granted by the City Council. Prior to the issuance of any such permit, the
applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk an indemnification agreement
holding harmless the City against all liability which may arise from the
applicant’s activities, together with a policy or certificate of insurance
protecting the City and third persons, in amounts determined by the City
Council and in companies and in a form satisfactory to the Chief Legal Officer.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2537, passed 12-22-1975)
§ 5-20 POSTING OF REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   All organizations based or having facilities at the airport shall keep
posted in a conspicuous location a copy of the regulations contained in this
ordinance. A copy of these regulations shall be posted in conspicuous places in
the public areas of the airport. The Director of Aeronautics shall be charged
with the enforcement of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
ARTICLE II. MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS
§ 5-21 ROADS, WALKS AND THE LIKE.
   The roads, walks and ways of the airport, excluding those located upon
premises under lease to others by the City, are declared to be “public rights-
of-way, streets, highways, alleys, and public places,” as defined in
Chapter 28, and fully subject to all of the provisions thereof, and to the
additional provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see
Ch. 28
§ 5-22 PERMIT TO ENTER MOVEMENT OR LANDING AREAS REQUIRED.
   Except for fire, crash or emergency vehicles answering a call, only those
vehicles, excluding bicycles, motorcycles and motor scooters, shall enter or
use the movement or land areas of the airport which have been issued permits
therefor by the Director of Aeronautics, in accordance with the requirements
set forth in this ordinance.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-23 SAME — CLASSIFICATION; DISPLAY.
   Permits for vehicles shall be of two types, “regular” for those vehicles
which require frequent and regular use of the movement or landing areas for the
conduct of airport business, and “special” for all other vehicles for which a
need to use the movement and landing area has been demonstrated. Special
permits shall be for a given number of trips, or a specific length of time.
Permits shall be displayed at all times upon the vehicle to which issued, and
designed for easy identification.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-24 SAME — EQUIPMENT REQUIRED TO QUALIFY FOR REGULAR PERMIT.
   In order to qualify for a regular permit a vehicle must be equipped with:
      (a)   A functioning two-way radio capable of conversation with the
airport control tower on ground control frequency; and
      (b)   A flashing red light placed upon the highest part of the vehicle,
to be continuously operating while within the movement and landing areas.
   Mowers, light tugs and airline gate service vehicles shall be exempt from
the requirements set forth in subsection (a) above.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-25 SAME — CONDITIONS ATTACHED TO SPECIAL PERMIT.
   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a flashing red light as provided in §
5-24(b) above, no special permit shall be valid during the hours of darkness;
and unless equipped with the radio provided in §
5-24(a) above, no vehicle with a special permit shall enter or use the movement
or landing areas unless escorted by a vehicle so equipped, or specially
directed and authorized by the Director of Aeronautics or airport control
tower.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-26 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO BE YIELDED TO AIRCRAFT; MANNER OF OPERATION.
   Drivers of all vehicles in the movement and landing areas shall yield the
right-of-way at all times to any aircraft, whether taxiing or airborne. Drivers
shall maintain a sharp lookout for aircraft at all times, and shall operate and
park vehicles in a safe and courteous manner.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-27 CROSSING LANDING AREAS, RUNWAYS AND THE LIKE.
   No vehicle shall cross the landing area until specific approval for the
movement has been received from the airport control tower. No vehicle shall be
operated along any runway without the same specific approval. Prior to crossing
runways or taxiways, drivers shall remain behind the holding markers provided.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-28 AIR TRAFFIC LIGHT SIGNALS.
   In the movement and landing areas air traffic light signals may be used in
case of radio failure, or to communicate with nonradio equipped vehicles. All
drivers shall be familiar with and observe such signals. Signals for use of
ground vehicles are:
   (a)   Steady green.  Cleared to proceed.
   (b)   Steady red. Stop and hold; wait for green signal.
   (c)   Alternating red and green. General warning, to be followed by steady
light of appropriate color.
   (d)   Flashing red. Clear runway immediately.
   (e)   Flashing white. Return to starting point for further instructions.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-29 SPECIAL TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the provisions of
Chapter 28, the following special provisions shall apply to the airport.
   (a)   On ramps and aprons, except as otherwise posted, the maximum speed
shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   (b)   All parking shall be at places and in the manner indicated by posted
signs.
   (c)   Loading and unloading of passengers at the airport shall be in places
designated by the Director of Aeronautics, and nowhere else.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2537, passed 12-22-1975)
ARTICLE III. FIRE REGULATIONS
§ 5-30 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER 19; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of
Chapter 19 are declared to be applicable to the airport, and all persons shall
comply therewith, in addition to the provisions of this ordinance. In any case
where the provisions of this ordinance are more restrictive than corresponding
provisions of
Chapter 19, the provisions herein shall govern.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-31 DESIGNATION AND POSTING OF RESTRICTED AREAS.
   Spaces and areas at the airport may be restricted relative to uses or
conditions hazardous to fire prevention or fire fighting, by the Director of
Aeronautics, where he shall find after inspection by the City Fire Marshal that
such restrictions are necessary. Restricted areas shall be posted
conspicuously, and where posted for “No Smoking” or “Fire Lane — Keep Clear” or
the like, all persons shall observe such restrictions.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-32 STORAGE OF RUBBISH, WASTE PAPER AND THE LIKE.
   Storage of rubbish, waste paper or other easily flammable waste matter in
hangars or other structures, or within twenty (20) feet thereof, is forbidden;
provided, however, that oily waste, rags, etc. may be temporarily stored in
suitable fireproof containers, of metal construction with air-tight covers,
approved by the City Fire Marshal. All waste, of whatever kind, shall be
removed from the airport within forty-eight (48) hours.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-33 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   Storage of gasoline, kerosene, ethyl and other flammable liquids, including
those used in doping and finishing, shall be in compliance with regulations of
the American Insurance Association and the National Fire Protection
Association, copies of which are on file with the City Clerk. Empty containers
originally used for these flammable liquids shall be removed without delay and
not put to other use.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-34 CLEANING OIL AND RUBBISH FROM MAINTENANCE HANGAR FLOORS.
   Floors of all aircraft maintenance hangars shall be kept clean at all times
from oil and rubbish. No volatile, flammable substances shall be used for
cleaning any floor at the airport.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-35 CLEANING OF ENGINE OR AIRCRAFT PARTS.
   Cleaning of engine or aircraft parts shall be done if possible with
nonflammable substances. Where it is necessary to employ flammable substances
such cleaning shall be conducted in the open air with fire watch assigned.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-36 USE OF OPEN FLAMES OR HIGH HEAT IN AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE.
   Aircraft maintenance in hangars shall be limited to inspections, replacement
of parts and repairs not involving open flames or high heat except that
electric soldering irons may be used; provided, however, such limitation shall
not apply where all other aircraft and all flammable materials and substances
have been removed from the hangar and a fire watch is assigned.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
ARTICLE IV. AIRCRAFT FUELING AND DEFUELING
§ 5-37 SCHEDULE OF PROPOSED SERVICES; INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE; REQUIRED
FACILITIES.
   Airport tenants authorized to dispense aviation fuel to the general public
shall comply with the following requirements before commencing operations:
   (a)   Submit to the Director of Aeronautics a schedule of proposed aviation
fuel services specifying hours and types of services, types of fuel offered,
lubricants, associated products, fees and charges, including retail prices for
all grades of aviation fuel to be sold. His approval shall be obtained prior to
putting such schedule into effect.
   (b)   Execute an indemnification agreement holding the City harmless against
liability arising from the fuel dispensing operations, if not already included
in the tenant’s lease with the City.
   (c)   Furnish the Director of Aeronautics proof of adequate liability
insurance coverage protecting the City, in companies and forms satisfactory to
the Chief Legal Officer.
   (d)   Provide fuel storage and dispensing facilities which meet all safety
standards of appropriate local, State and Federal authorities, and which have
been approved by the Director of Aeronautics prior to their installation.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2537, passed 12-22-1975)
§ 5-38 MONTHLY REPORTS TO DIRECTOR.
   Each wholesale supplier of aviation fuel shall submit monthly to the
Director of Aeronautics a report showing quantities and types of fuel delivered
for the preceding month to any premises at the airport.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-39 SERVICE REQUIRED; FEES; FUEL.
   All person engaged in aviation fuel dispensing operations at the airport
shall:
   (a)   Provide twenty-four hour service daily, without exception, to all
users at the airport. Service may be provided by “attendant on duty” or “on
call” if so specified in the schedule of Aviation Fuel Services approved by the
Director of Aeronautics. “On call” service shall be provided within not more
than one hour. All services shall be provided in an efficient, courteous
manner.
   (b)   Adhere to the current approved schedule of Aviation Fuel Services on
file with the Director of Aeronautics. Reduction of service, or increase in
fees or charges may be made only after thirty (30) days written notice of the
proposed amended schedule to the Director of Aeronautics, and his approval
thereof.
   (c)   Secure written approval of the Director of Aeronautics prior to
accepting delivery of any new type aviation fuel.
   (d)   Mark all fuel tenders appropriately to identify fuels. Mark all
dispensing outlets for type and grade of fuel. Post “No Smoking” and
“Flammable” signs on all sides and on rear of all fuel tenders.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-40 TRANSFER OF FUEL WITHIN BUILDING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall transfer fuel into or from any aircraft fuel tank within any
building or structure on the airport.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-41 TRANSPORTATION OF FUEL.
   No fuel shall be transported into or upon the airport in bottles, cans or
other like containers.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-42 STORAGE OF FUEL.
   No fuel or other flammable liquid shall be stored, however short the period,
in bottles, cans or other like containers at the airport, provided, however,
that safety cans may be used for fuel for ground equipment, tugs, tractors,
mowers, and similar equipment.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-43 DEPOSITING FUEL, OIL AND THE LIKE ON AIRPORT SURFACE.
   No fuel, lubricant, oil, grease, chemical or other harmful or dangerous
substance shall be deposited, drained onto, or allowed to remain on any surface
of the airport.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
ARTICLE V. AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS
§ 5-44 GENERAL RULES.
   (a)   The Director of Aeronautics shall have authority to suspend or
restrict operations, without regard to weather conditions, whenever such action
becomes necessary in the interest of safety. He shall have the authority at all
times to take such action as may be required to safeguard the public.
   (b)   All aeronautical activities at the airport and within the Airport
Control Zone shall be conducted in strict conformity with the Aeronautics Code
of the State of Michigan and with The Federal Aviation Regulations issued by
the FAA.
   (c)   Flight instructors have the duty of acquainting their students fully
with the provisions of this ordinance. During dual instruction the instructor
shall be responsible for adherence thereto. When a student is flying solo it
then becomes his responsibility.
   (d)   Terminal gate positions shall be controlled by the Airport Control
Tower. They are primarily designed for use by scheduled airlines, but itinerant
aircraft may be granted permission to deplane passengers at any open gate, and
temporarily park thereat not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2165, passed 9-29-1969)
§ 5-45 GROUND OPERATIONS.
   (a)   Aircraft taxi speeds on taxiways, aprons, in the vicinity of other
aircraft or service vehicles, or near pedestrians shall not exceed 15 miles per
hour.
   (b)   Aircraft shall not be taxied from one location to another, nor to a
runway for takeoff, without a clearance to proceed from the Airport Control
Tower. The Federal Aviation Regulations and Michigan Aeronautics Commission
Rules with regard to taxiing shall be strictly observed. Each aircraft operator
shall monitor the ground control frequency (121.9 MHZ) or appropriate tower
frequency at all items while the aircraft is in motion.
   (c)   East T-hangar tenants, and fixed base traffic in the area of the East
T-hangars, including visitors, shall enter the hangar area via the south
taxiway and depart via the north taxiway.
   (d)   A competent person shall be at the controls of each aircraft at all
times when the engine is started or running. Aircraft shall not be “run up,”
excluding takeoff run-ups, within or in the vicinity of airport buildings, or
whenever the run-up would be dangerous to property or person. For extended run-
ups the pilot should request clearance from the Airport Control Tower to use an
appropriate area.
   (e)   Parking of aircraft shall be as determined and designated by the
Director of Aeronautics, subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Parking on the east T-hangar taxiways shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Parking on or near night flight operations areas shall be
prohibited unless the aircraft is clearly illuminated, has lighted positions
lights or is located in an area marked off by obstruction lights as provided by
The Federal Aviation Regulations.
      (3)   Parking at any gas service area shall provide adequate clearance
for four engine aircraft using any aircraft movement area.
      (4)   Jet aircraft shall be parked on ramp areas so as to permit the
starting of engines without hazard to other aircraft or persons. Terminal gate
positions may be used only where the engine blast will be directed toward the
open apron and clear all parked aircraft.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2165, passed 9-29-1969)
§ 5-46 FLIGHT OPERATIONS.
   (a)   Each aircraft departing from or arriving at the airport shall have a
functioning two-way radio, and the pilot shall maintain communication thereon
with the Airport Control Tower. In the event of radio malfunction prior to
takeoff no flight shall be continued or engaged in unless specific permission
and individual instructions covering the flight are first obtained from the
Airport Control Tower. Arriving aircraft pilots shall communicate with the
Control Tower by telephone from the point of departure.
   (b)   In event of radio failure enroute the following action shall be taken:
      (1)   If prior to entering traffic pattern, circle field until issued
appropriate light signal, or land at Dalton Airport (six miles northwest) and
telephone Airport Control Tower.
      (2)   If after traffic pattern has been entered, remain in proper
sequence and land the aircraft. Notify the Control Tower by telephone after
parking the aircraft.
   (c)   All aircraft approaching the airport for landing shall be flown so
that all turns are made to the left, unless otherwise directed by the Control
Tower.
   (d)   Each pilot shall retain full authority and final decision as to use of
the runway assigned him by the Control Tower. He may request another runway
when the assigned runway, in his judgment, is not suitable for the operation
involved.
   (e)   All aircraft shall maintain the proper altitudes while in the traffic
pattern, as designated by the Control Tower. These are normally 800 feet above
ground (1581 MSL) for single-engine light aircraft, and 1,200 feet above ground
(1981 MSL) for multi-engine aircraft.
   (f)   Landing aircraft pilots shall maintain “approach control” or “tower”
frequency until clear of the active runway, then change immediately to “ground
control” frequency (129.9 MHZ) unless directed to the contrary.
   (g)   Departing aircraft pilots shall maintain “tower” frequency until clear
of the Airport Control Zone, or until instructed by the Control Tower to change
frequencies.
   (h)   Practice landings and takeoffs may be authorized when such operations
will not delay regular air traffic. Pilots desiring to remain in the traffic
pattern for such practice shall notify the Control Tower when requesting
clearance for takeoff.
   (i)   Cross-wind flight operations may be authorized by the Control Tower so
long as it does not interfere with the regular flow of traffic.
   (j)   Sod landings and takeoffs are permitted by light planes only, and
shall be conducted exclusively in designated areas established by the Director
of Aeronautics, during daylight hours. All night operations shall be upon the
paved surfaces.
(Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2165, passed 9-29-1969)
ARTICLE VI. COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 5-47 COMPLIANCE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or conduct a commercial
aviation business at Bishop International Airport except in compliance with the
provisions of this ordinance. For purposes of this ordinance, the word OPERATOR
means any such person, firm or corporation, and the word OPERATION means any
such business.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-48 RESERVED.
§ 5-49 RESERVED.
§ 5-50 PERSONNEL.
   Each operation shall have sufficient trained, available and qualified
personnel on hand to provide an adequate level of service to the public. During
hours of normal operation, the office of every operation shall be attended by
at least one (1) person, or more as necessary to meet the public need. If
aircraft are demonstrated or flown in connection with the operation, there
shall be provided at least one (1) pilot with current rating and certification
by the FAA appropriate to each type of aircraft, or more as necessary, to meet
the public need. In addition, all air freight operators shall provide such
additional personnel for freight handling and general traffic management as may
be necessary; all aircraft fuel and oil dispensing operations shall provide at
least one (1) person properly trained in the operation of the equipment and
facilities; and all airframe and/or power plant repair operators shall provide
at least one (1) person properly certified by the FAA to perform the type of
repair service offered. In multiple operations, individuals may be assigned
dual or multiple responsibilities where reasonable and feasible.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968; Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-51 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Subject to other provisions of this section all operations shall maintain
regular hours of operation when they shall be “open for business” with office
personnel on hand. Except in the case of aircraft fuel and oil dispensing
operations, normal hours of operation shall be at last from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m., Monday through Friday, whenever the airport field is operating and open
to air traffic. Air freight operations may at their option provide “on call”
service in lieu of regular office hours. Airframe or power plant repair
operations shall provide at least one (1) properly certified mechanic “on call”
on weekends whenever the field is operating. The schedules of Aviation Fuel
Service, provided for by Ordinance No. 2031, of aircraft fuel and oil
dispensing operations shall provide for minimum regular business hours with
attendant on duty from sunrise to sunset, seven (7) days a week, and “on call”
service during all other hours.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968; Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 5-52 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Every operator shall insure the operation and its premises against public
liability, in a reputable company insuring the risks, and furnish proof of
coverage to the City. Every policy shall require that a minimum of ten (10)
days advance notice, in writing, of any substantial change in terms or
cancellation or suspension of coverage be provided to the City. The minimum
insurance required by this section shall be comprehensive public liability
covering the premises and ground activities of each operation in the amount of
$100,000.00 for any one (1) person injured, $300,000.00 for all persons injured
in one (1) accident, and $100,000.00 for property damage. If the operation
involves demonstrating or flying aircraft, the operator shall also carry
aircraft liability insurance in not less than the same amounts. If the
operation involves carrying passengers on flights, the operator shall also
carry passenger liability coverage in amount not less than $100,000.00 for any
one (1) passenger, and $300,000.00 for all passengers in one (1) accident.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968; Ord. 2031, passed 2-5-1968)
DIVISION 2. SPECIFIC OPERATIONS
§ 5-53 AIRCRAFT SALES.
   (a)   Premises.  The building shall provide an office, public lounge with
telephone, and a display area, with proper lighting and heating, except heat
need not be provided to the display area. Paved pedestrian walkways and a paved
apron from the building to the lot line, shall be provided. Where public
parking is not immediately available, an adequate parking area for automobiles
shall be provided.
   (b)   Dealerships. Each operation selling new aircraft shall hold an
authorized factory dealership franchise, and all legal licensing requirements
shall be complied with.
   (c)   Aircraft. Each dealership in new aircraft shall have available at
least one (1) current model aircraft demonstrator, and provide for
demonstrations of additional models of the same manufacturer.
   (d)   Service. Warranty service with an adequate stock of parts shall be
provided, either by the dealer or by arrangement with a repair shop
specializing in the make.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-54 AIR FREIGHT.
   (a)   Premises. The building shall provide an office, storage space for
freight, docking facilities and rest rooms, properly lighted and heated. Space
shall be arranged on the premises adequate to park and maneuver aircraft and
ground equipment.
   (b)   Aircraft. The operation shall own or have under lease one (1) or more
aircraft adequate to perform the service offered.
   (c)   Equipment. The operation shall own or have under lease, sufficient and
adequate ground equipment to provide safe and efficient transport and handling
of cargo.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-55 AIRCRAFT FUEL AND OIL DISPENSING.
   (a)   Premises. The building shall provide an office public lounge with
telephone, and restrooms, properly lighted and heated. An aircraft parking area
with at least six (6) tie downs shall be provided, and a private automobile
parking area unless public parking is immediately available Paved pedestrian
access walkways and an apron from the building to the lot line shall also be
provided.
   (b)   Equipment. The operation shall be equipped with emergency aircraft
starting equipment, fire extinguishers, aircraft engine heaters, portable
pressure tanks, oxygen supplies, and towing equipment
   (c)   Facilities. At least two (2) metered, filter- equipped dispensers,
either fixed or mobile, for dispensing 80-87 and 100 octane grades of gasoline
and storage tanks for each grade with capacity of at least 10,000 gallons each
shall be provided. Separate pumps and meters shall be used for each grade. If
mobile dispensing units are employed, they shall have a minimum capacity of 300
gallons for each grade of fuel.
   (d)   Services. The operation shall provide services as follows: Fueling;
parking; tie down; tire inflation; oil changing; and minor repairs not
requiring mechanical rating.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-56 AIRFRAME AND/OR POWER PLANT REPAIR.
   (a)   Premises. The minimum adequate space provisions in a building used for
an airframe or power plant repair service shall be at the discretion of the
Director of Aeronautics. A public telephone shall be provided. Private
automobile parking space shall be provided unless public parking is immediately
available. In addition, the operation shall provide adequate paved pedestrian
access walkways and paved apron from the building to the lot line.
   (b)   Equipment. Sufficient tools, repair equipment, supplies and parts
shall be available to perform repair and maintenance in accordance with
manufacturer’s and FAA specifications and recommendations.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968; Ord. 2796, passed 5-26-1981)
§ 5-57 AIR TAXI SERVICE.
   (a)   Premises. The building of an air taxi service shall provide an office,
customer lounge and rest rooms, properly heated and lighted; a telephone shall
be provided on the premises.
   (b)   Aircraft. The operation shall own or have under lease in writing one
or more four-place aircraft meeting all requirements of the air taxi/commercial
operator certificate held, and all relevant requirements of Part 135 of The
Federal Aviation Regulations.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-58 AIRCRAFT RENTAL.
   (a)   Premises. The building for an aircraft rental service shall provide
office space, adequate space for use by the public, properly heated and
lighted, and be equipped with a public telephone.
   (b)   Aircraft. The operation shall own or have under lease in writing at
least one aircraft in airworthy condition.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-59 FLIGHT TRAINING; GENERALLY.
   (a)   Premises. The building for a flight training service shall provide an
office, classroom, briefing room and pilot’s lounge, properly heated and
lighted, and equipped with a public telephone.
   (b)   Aircraft. The operation shall own or have under lease in writing at
least one aircraft, properly certificated and equipped with flight instruction.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-60 FLIGHT TRAINING; BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The building for a radio, instrument or propeller repair service shall
provide an office, rest rooms, and shop and hangar space meeting not less than
the minimum standards required for FAA repair shop certification. Telephone
service shall be provided on the premises.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-61 AERIAL CHEMICAL APPLICATION SERVICE.
   (a)   Premises. The building for an aerial chemical application service
shall provide an office and storage area space, and be equipped with telephone
service.
   (b)   Aircraft. The operation shall own or have under lease in writing, and
based upon the premises of the operation, at least one aircraft in airworthy
condition. All aircraft used in the operation shall meet the requirements of
Part 137 of The Federal Aviation Regulations, and all applicable regulations of
the State.
   (c)   Storage area. The operation shall provide a segregated chemical
storage area, which is protected against any access by the public or
unauthorized personnel.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 5-62 SPECIALIZED COMMERCIAL FLIGHT SERVICES.
   (a)   Premises. The building for a specialized commercial flight service
shall provide properly heated and lighted space for an office, and be equipped
with a telephone.
   (b)   Aircraft. The operation shall own or have lease in writing at least
one aircraft with proper certification for the operations engaged in.
(Ord. 2093, passed 11-11-1968)
CHAPTER 6: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR SALES
Section
Article I. In General
   
6-1   Alcoholic liquor defined
   
6-2   Purchase by or sale to persons under 21 prohibited
   
6-2.1   Selling or furnishing to persons under 21 prohibited
   
6-2.2   Same — sale defined
   
6-3   Proof of age and identity
   
6-5   Possession, transportation and the like by person under 21 prohibited
   
6-5.1   Penalty for §§ 6-2 – 6-5
   
6-5.2   Transportation or possession in motor vehicle by person less than 21
   
6-6   Consumption in public prohibited; possession or consumption in public
park or parkway prohibited; exception
Article II. Regulations of On-Premises Consumption
   
6-7   Definitions
   
6-8   Compliance
   
6-9   Provisions not to limit existing authority or power
   
6-10   Compliance with health and safety requirements
   
6-11   Limitation on location of new business
   
6-12   Qualifications for license
   
6-13   License — application, investigation and approval
   
6-14   Fees for transfer of ownership or location of license
   
6-15   Time limit on transfer of licenses
   
6-16   Revocation of license
   
6-17   Living quarters connected with licensed premises
   
6-18   Employment of persons under 18
   
6-19   Sale to intoxicated persons prohibited
   
6-20   Certain conduct on premises prohibited
   
6-21   Dance permit
   
6-22   Advertising that paychecks are cashed prohibited
   
6-23   Sunday hours
   
6-24   Issuance or transfer fee for specially designated merchant or
distributor licenses
Cross-reference:
   Public intoxication, see §
31-46
   Under the influence:
      Driving, see §
28-28
      Operating watercraft, see §
48-2
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Control Act, see MSA §§ 18.971 et seq.
ARTICLE I: IN GENERAL
§ 6-1 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR DEFINED.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. For the purposes of this chapter, the term shall have the
same meaning as provided in MCLA 436.1 through 436.58 (Act 8, P.A. 1933, the
Michigan Liquor Control Act).
(Ord. 570, passed 2-5-1945)
§ 6-2 PURCHASE BY OR SALE TO PERSONS UNDER 21 PROHIBITED.
   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall offer to buy, obtain
or drink any alcoholic liquor in any beer garden, tavern, restaurant, store or
place where alcoholic liquor is sold or furnished for consumption either on or
away from the premises, or in any public place, and any person who shall sell,
give or offer any alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty-one
(21) years in any beer garden, tavern, restaurant, store or place where
alcoholic liquor is sold or furnished for consumption either on or away from
the premises, or in any public place.
(Ord. 570, passed 2-5-1945; Ord. 2694, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 6-2.1 SELLING OR FURNISHING TO PERSONS UNDER 21 PROHIBITED.
   Alcoholic liquor shall not be sold or furnished to a person unless the
person has attained twenty-one (21) years of age. A person who knowingly sells
or furnishes alcoholic liquor to a person who is less than twenty-one (21)
years of age, or who fails to make diligent inquiry as to whether the person is
less than twenty-one (21) years of age; or, who allows the sale, furnishing or
use of alcoholic liquor on their premises by a person who is less than twenty-
one (21) years of age is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3150, passed 10-22-1990)
§ 6-2.2 SAME — SALE DEFINED.
   SALE. Shall include exchange, barter or traffic, furnishing or giving away
any alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 3150, passed 10-22-1990)
§ 6-3 PROOF OF AGE AND IDENTITY.
   The person in charge of any beer garden, restaurant, tavern, store or place
where alcoholic liquor is sold or furnished for consumption either on or away
from the premises, shall have the right at any time to demand of any person
offering to buy, buying, obtaining or drinking any alcoholic liquor in such
establishment who may appear to him to be under the age of twenty-one (21)
years, proof of age and identity and on failure of the person to produce same,
shall refuse to serve, sell or furnish such person with any alcoholic liquor
and may exclude such person from such place of business. If any such person
shall refuse to leave such place of business, he shall be termed a disorderly
person.
(Ord. 570, passed 2-5-1945; Ord. 2694, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 6-5 POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND THE LIKE BY PERSON UNDER 21 PROHIBITED.
   A person less than twenty-one (21) years of age shall not possess alcoholic
liquor, unless such person possesses the alcoholic liquor during regular
working hours and in the course of his or her employment if employed by a
licensee under the provisions of MCLA 436.1 through 436.58 et seq., by the
Michigan Liquor Control Commission, or by its agent, and does not possess the
alcoholic liquor for his or her personal consumption.
(Ord. 570, passed 2-5-1945; Ord. 1630, passed 4-10-1961; Ord. 2694, passed 2-
12-1979; Ord. 3173, passed 6-10-1991)
§ 6-5.1 PENALTY FOR §§ 6-2 – 6-5.
   A person less than twenty-one (21) years of age who violates §§
6-2 through
6-5 of this chapter is liable for the following civil fines:
   (a)   For the first violation, a fine of not more than twenty-five ($25.00)
dollars.
   (b)   For a second violation, a fine of not more than fifty ($50.00)
dollars, or participation in a substance abuse prevention program, or both.
   (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, a fine of not more than one
hundred ($100.00) dollars, or participation in a substance abuse prevention
program, or both.
(Ord. 2694, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 6-5.2 TRANSPORTATION OR POSSESSION IN MOTOR VEHICLE BY PERSON LESS THAN 21.
   A person less than twenty-one (21) years of age shall not knowingly
transport or possess, in a motor vehicle, alcoholic liquor unless the person is
employed by a licensee under the provisions of MCLA 436.1 through 436.58 et
seq., a common carrier designated by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission, or
its agent, and is transporting or having the alcoholic liquor in a motor
vehicle under the person’s control during regular working hours and in the
course of the person’s employment. A person who violates this subsection is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3173, passed 6-10-1991)
§ 6-6 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED; POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC
PARK OR PARKWAY PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No alcoholic liquors or beer shall be consumed on the public streets, parks
or in any other public places, including any store or establishment doing
business with the public not licensed to sell alcoholic liquor or beer therein.
   No person shall have in his possession or under his or her control, any
alcoholic liquor or beer upon or within any public park or parkway; provided,
that such possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor or beer may be
permitted within buildings or structures under the jurisdiction of the
Department of Parks and Recreation where not otherwise prohibited by law, upon
the securing of permission from the Director of the Department of Parks and
Recreation.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945; Ord. 1866, passed 9-9-1965; Ord. 2780, passed 10-
13-1980)
ARTICLE II. REGULATION OF ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION
§ 6-7 DEFINITIONS.
   Any terms used in this article which are defined in MCLA §§ 436.1 through
436.58 shall for all the purposes of this article have the same meaning and use
as established by such statutory definitions (except as herein provided). In
addition to the above definitions so provided by reference, for the purpose of
this article, the following terms used in this article shall be construed as
follows, unless the contents hereof shall otherwise require:
   CHURCH. Any permanent building or part thereof regularly used by any
religious organization, group or society, for the purpose of assembling for
worship.
   GOOD MORAL CHARACTER. Shall be construed to mean the propensity on the part
of the person to serve the public in the licensed area in a fair, honest and
open manner.
   LICENSEE. Those persons licensed to engage in the sale of alcoholic liquors
at retail, including consumption on the premises.
   MINOR. All persons under twenty-one (21) years.
   NEW LICENSE. All licenses issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail,
including consumption on the premises, at locations not previously licensed.
The term shall include all transfers of locations.
   PARK. Any open area dedicated to use by the general public for recreational
purposes.
   PLAYGROUND. Any regularly maintained athletic field or stadium, or place
regularly used in connection with any school, either public or parochial school
system.
   SCHOOL. Any building or portion thereof regularly used for the teaching of
pupils in the public or parochial school system.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945; Ord. 1174, passed 4-5-1954; Ord. 2694, passed 2-12-
1979; Ord. 2885, passed 9-12-1983; Ord. 2935, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 6-8 COMPLIANCE.
   In addition to all of the rules and regulations of the Liquor Control
Commission of the State of Michigan, and the statutes of the State relative to
the sale of alcoholic liquors by the glass, the requirements of this ordinance
shall be met by all persons engaging in the sale within the limits of the City
of Flint.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-9 PROVISIONS NOT TO LIMIT EXISTING AUTHORITY OR POWER.
   This ordinance shall not operate in limitation of any power or authority
vested in the City Council or in the City of Flint by virtues of any existing
constitutional or statutory provision, and shall be considered to be only
supplementary to the exercise or use of such vested authority and not in
derogation thereof.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-10 COMPLIANCE WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to lessen or avoid the necessity
for full compliance with all laws, rules, regulations and ordinances relative
to health and safety, including all provisions of the Building and Zoning
ordinances; but on the other hand, full compliance therewith shall be a
continuing condition of City Council approval of any licenses.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-11 LIMITATION ON LOCATION OF NEW BUSINESS.
   (a)   When any applicant shall seek approval for a license to sell alcoholic
beverages at retail or consumption on premises, or for transfer of such an
existing license, the Council shall consider the following guidelines in its
deliberations and determination as to:
      (1)   Good moral character, reputation, prior felony and/or any
misdemeanor conviction record of crimes related to the person’s likelihood to
serve the public in a fair, honest and open manner, and past business history.
      (2)   Conformity of the business, its location, and its physical premises
with all applicable Federal, State and local rules, regulations and ordinances.
      (3)   Zoning of the subject premises with less restrictive designations
to weight more heavily in favor of approval.
      (4)   The effect that the proposed use would have on traffic conditions
in the immediate area, and whether, by virtue of density of traffic or other
conditions, the proposed use would constitute a traffic hazard.
      (5)   The sufficiency of lighting, police control or other conditions
concerning the possibility that such use might constitute a nuisance or moral
hazard.
      (6)   Proximity of the subject premises as it relates to a church,
school, park or playground, and in the case of a Class C license, property
zoned A, B or C residential, it being the policy of the City that location of
such a business within 1,000 feet of such other property or entities is not
generally desirable, consideration shall be given to the number of kind of
other businesses in the general area; the particular circumstances; the number
of residences involved; and the ability of the applicant to take measures to
eliminate or minimize the legitimate complaints, concerns and fears of the
residents surrounding residential areas, or authorities in charge of the
church, school or park.
      (7)   For purposes of determining the effect on surrounding residents, if
any, within 1,000 feet of the proposed establishment, the applicant shall be
required to attempt to obtain the written consent of at least 66-2/3% of all
the owners. If at least 66-2/3% of all such owners shall so approve, there
shall be no basis for denying the application on the grounds of complaints or
effect on residents. If less than 66-2/3% of the owners shall give consent, the
reasons for such failure, including effort or lack of effort on the part of the
applicant, number of residences involved, availability of residential owners,
and the like, shall be considered in determining whether to approve the
application.
   (b)   For the purpose of measuring distances within the meaning of this
section, the distance between the contemplated location, the premises proposed
to be licensed, and the church or school building, shall be measured along the
regularly traveled thoroughfare between two fixed points, determined by
extending two right lines, in prolongation of the contiguous side of the
buildings in question, to their intersection with the regularly traveled
thoroughfare. Where a park or playground is involved, the measurement shall be
to the nearest edge of the park or playground. All applications for new
licenses or new locations shall be accompanied by a simple sketch showing that
the distance, zoning and other location features involved meet the minimum
requirements of this article, and certified to be complete and accurate by a
registered civil engineer or surveyor.
   (c)   Following review of the application, in light of these guidelines and
due deliberation thereon, the decision as to approval or denial shall be made,
and the reasons supporting the decision briefly stated. In the event the
application shall in fact be within 1,000 feet of a church, school or park, or
in the case of a Class C license, property zoned A, B or C residential without
66-2/3% consent, approval shall require a specific statement in the motion for
approval as to the other factors that constitute good cause for overriding the
locational guideline. This section shall not be interpreted to override other
ordinances and statutory provisions such as zoning restrictions and similar
requirements.
   (d)   (1)   No application for a new license location to sell alcoholic
liquors for consumption on the premises shall be approved unless and until a
rectangular notice measuring no less than 24 inches on each side shall be
posted on the premises for a period of at least 30 days. The notice shall
contain the word “Notice” in letters one-half inch high:
“An application for a license to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on
these premises has been filed with the Michigan Liquor Control Commission and
the City of Flint.”
      (2)   The notice shall also contain the following information in letters
at least three-fourths inch high:
   “Any inquiries or comments regarding this application for a license may be
made at:
   1.   City Clerk’s Office
      City of Flint
      1101 S. Saginaw Street
      Flint, Michigan 48502
   2.   Michigan Liquor Control Commission
      7150 Harris Drive
      Lansing Michigan, 48909
      (517) 766-0450”
      (3)   Proof of posting of the notice shall be made by filing of an
affidavit of same with the City Clerk, which affidavit shall become part of the
application for a license hereunder.
   (e)   Whenever approval of the application is granted despite location of
the premises within 1,000 feet of a church, school, park or playground, notice
of that fact shall be forwarded to the Michigan Liquor Control Commission with
the approved application to allow for review of the locational situation under
State law.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945; Ord. 1174, passed 4-5-1954; Ord. 1513, passed 10-5-
1959; Ord. 2041, passed 3-18-1968; Ord. 2381, passed 9-13-1971; Ord. 2231,
passed 10-1-1971; Ord. 2642, passed 5-22-1978; Ord. 2885, passed 9-12-1983;
Ord. 2935, passed 1-28-1985; Ord. 3452, passed 3-27-2000)
§ 6-12 QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   No application for a license location to sell alcoholic liquors for
consumption on the premises or for a transfer thereof shall be approved unless:
   (a)   The applicant or transferee has been a bona fide resident of the State
for one year immediately preceding the filing of an application and a citizen
of the United States;
   (b)   The applicant or transferee owes no delinquent personal property taxes
or water bills or other indebtedness to the City; and/or
   (c)   The applicant or transferee intends to use or does use personal
property free of delinquent personal property taxes.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-13 LICENSE — APPLICATION, INVESTIGATION AND APPROVAL.
   All applications for license to sell alcoholic liquors for consumption on
the premises in the City, shall be made in the manner and form as required by
the City Council, acting on resolution from time to time, or as may be required
by the Chief of Police. The application shall be completely filled in by ink or
typewriter in duplicate, and shall be sworn to by all applicants before the
City Clerk or one of the Deputy City Clerks. The application above referred to
shall pertain to City approval only and shall be in addition to the
applications required by the Liquor Control Commission. The City Clerk shall
forthwith refer the application to the office of the Chief of Police who shall
cause a thorough investigation to be made of the persons and premises involved
in the application and report his findings and conclusions to the City Council.
Approval of the City Council shall require a majority vote of the members elect
thereof.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945; Ord. 3170, passed 5-28-1991)
§ 6-14 FEES FOR TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR LOCATION OF LICENSE.
   With each application filed for the transfer of either ownership or location
of any license, or both, the sum of twenty-five dollars shall first be paid to
the City Clerk to reimburse the City for the costs in connection with
investigation of the application for transfer, and such application shall not
be received by the City Clerk or considered by the City Council unless the
aforesaid fee shall first have been paid.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-15 TIME LIMIT ON TRANSFER OF LICENSES.
   No application for transfer of ownership or location, or both, of any
license to sell alcoholic liquors shall be received by the City Clerk or
considered by the City Council if there has been a transfer of the same as to
either ownership or location within the period of six months previous to the
application, provided however, that this shall not apply to any transfers
involved by reason of the death of any licensee or any transfer ordered by any
Court or other competent legal authority, act of God, casualty, or serious
illness of the applicant.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-16 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (a)   Where the licensed owner or operator of an alcoholic liquor
establishment violates, or allows another person to violate, the provisions of
this chapter, any rule or regulation promulgated by the Michigan Liquor Control
Commission, any law of the State of Michigan, or any applicable ordinance of
the City of Flint, on or involving the premises licensed by the Commission, the
City Council may, after notice of hearing to be held before a panel appointed
by the City Council, request to the Liquor Control Commission that the license
be revoked, this in addition to criminal penalties otherwise provided for
violations where applicable.
   (b)   In addition, where the licensed owner or operator of an alcoholic
liquor establishment also holds other licenses granted under provisions of the
City Code, and those licenses are used in the operation of the establishment,
those licenses are subject to a suspension for a period of time ranging from
six months to one year upon a first request for a license revocation, and to
suspension or revocation upon repeated requests for a license revocation.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-17 LIVING QUARTERS CONNECTED WITH LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee, other than a regularly licensed hotel licensee shall have
living quarters on any room containing equipment for living quarters connected
with licensed premises and all doorways and other apertures between said
licensed premises and living quarters must be securely and permanently sealed.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-18 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER 18.
   No person under the age of eighteen may be employed in any licensed premises
where alcoholic beverages are consumed, distributed or sold for consumption on
premises.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945; Ord. 1996, passed 9-11-1967)
§ 6-19 SALE TO INTOXICATED PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee, by himself or another, shall sell, furnish, give or deliver any
alcoholic liquor to any person who is so intoxicated as not to be in control of
all of his or her faculties.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-20 CERTAIN CONDUCT ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall permit on the licensed premises:
   (a)   Spirits to be consumed if licensed to sell only beer or wine, or both;
   (b)   Any disorderly conduct or act which disturbs the peace and good order
of the neighborhood;
   (c)   Any employee to visit, fraternize or drink alcoholic liquor or beer
with any of the patrons.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945; Ord. 1590, passed 8-29-1960)
§ 6-21 DANCE PERMIT.
   No licensee shall permit or allow dancing upon his licensed premises until
he shall have first obtained a dance permit approved by the City Council of the
City of Flint and unless he conforms in every particular to the rules and
regulations governing sale of alcoholic beverages at retail establishments by
the Michigan Liquor Control Commission as such rules and regulations are
presently constituted or as they may hereafter be amended. The permit provided
for herein shall be personal to the licensee and shall be limited to the
premises as described in this ordinance, and upon a change of ownership, a new
dance permit fee shall be required. If the license hereunder shall change
location, then there shall be no fee except as provided in §
6-14 of this ordinance. The dance permit provided for herein shall not extend
to premises required to be licensed pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 8 of this Code. The fee for the permit provided for herein shall be as
prescribed in
Chapter 26 of this Code and said permit shall expire on April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945; Ord. 1743, passed 11-20-1963)
Cross-reference:
   Public dance halls, see §§
8-34 et seq.
§ 6-22 ADVERTISING THAT PAYCHECKS ARE CASHED PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall exhibit on or about the licensed premises or at any other
place any advertising or notice that paychecks will be cashed or are cashed at
the licensed premises.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-23 SUNDAY HOURS.
   On every Sunday after 2:00 a.m. all spirits shall be removed from all bars
on premises licensed to sell alcoholic liquors to the public and shall be
placed out of sight and locked.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945)
§ 6-24 ISSUANCE OR TRANSFER FEE FOR SPECIALLY DESIGNATED MERCHANT OR
DISTRIBUTOR LICENSES.
   In addition to the above provisions, with each application filed for a
Specially Designated Merchant or Specially Designated Distributor license or
transfer of either ownership or location of the license, or both, a fee as
prescribed in
Chapter 26 shall first be paid to the City Clerk to reimburse the City in the
cost in connection with investigation of said application, and such
applications shall not be received by the City Clerk or considered by the City
Council unless the aforesaid fee shall first have been paid.
(Ord. 590, passed 7-5-1945; Ord. 1367, passed 2-25-1957)
CHAPTER 7: AMBULANCES
Section
Article I. Licenses
   
7-1   Required; exceptions; persons under 18 not entitled to license
   
7-1.1   Required equipment
   
7-2   Application; investigation of applicant and vehicle; issuance
   
7-3   Fee; term; license plate
   
7-4   Liability insurance
   
7-5   Inspection of vehicles
Article II. Attendants and Drivers
   
7-6   Certificate of fitness; first aid equipment
   
7-7   Operation of ambulance; EMT-A course
   
7-8   Renewal of certificates of fitness
   
7-9   Driver license; completion of EMT-A course
   
7-10   Same — renewal
   
7-11   Same — suspension and revocation; grounds for denial
   
7-12   Same — date of expiration
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see
Ch. 28
ARTICLE I. LICENSES
§ 7-1 REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS; PERSONS UNDER 18 NOT ENTITLED TO LICENSE.
   No person, persons, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be
operated any ambulance, public or private, or any other vehicle commonly used
for the transportation or conveyance of the sick or injured upon the streets of
the City of Flint, without first obtaining a license for said vehicle and no
license shall be granted to any applicant who is not currently licensed with
the State of Michigan and meets all requirements of State statute and rules and
regulations of all State agencies. Provided further that no person under the
age of eighteen years shall be entitled to a license hereunder. Provided
further that nothing in this ordinance shall be interpreted to apply to any
ambulance or emergency vehicle used for the transportation or conveyance of
sick or injured persons from outside the limits of the City of Flint to a
hospital inside the limits of the City of Flint, nor shall this ordinance be
interpreted to apply to any ambulance or emergency vehicle used to transport or
convey any patient from any hospital, convalescent home or rest home inside the
limits of the City of Flint to a destination outside the limits of the City of
Flint.
(Ord. 1717, passed 5-20-1963; Ord. 1732, passed 7-29-1963; Ord. 2335, passed 5-
18-1972; Ord. 2513, passed 9-22-1975)
§ 7-1.1 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated any
ambulance, public or private, or any other vehicle commonly used for the
transportation or conveyance of the sick or injured, without having such
vehicle equipped with a set of simple first aid and splint appliances approved
by the Health Officer or his authorized designee, and having in attendance at
all times such vehicle is in use persons who have obtained certificates of
fitness as ambulance attendants from the Health Officer or his authorized
designee.
   (a)   Each ambulance shall carry, at all times when the ambulance is in use
as such, the following required equipment: equipment adequate for dressing
wounds; splinting fractures; controlling hemorrhage; providing oxygen; and
maintaining airways. In determining the adequacy of equipment, the Health
Officer or his designee shall take into consideration the current list of
minimal equipment for ambulances, adopted by the American College of Surgeons
or its duly authorized Committee on Trauma.
   (b)   Each vehicle operated as an ambulance shall be equipped with two-way
radio communications, Federal Communications Commission licensed, where engaged
in performing emergency services to the community; such equipment to be of
adequate power to communicate within a twenty-five (25) mile radius of its base
station and shall conform in all respects to the recommendations of the
Michigan Department of Public Health.
   (c)   Each motor vehicle operated as a land ambulance shall be air
conditioned.
   (d)   Each motor vehicle operated as an ambulance shall be of model and make
to insure safe and comfortable transportation of a patient, and must have
sufficient head room to accommodate the patient in a Fowler’s position as
recommended by the Michigan Department of Public Health.
   (e)   Each ambulance shall have adequate lighting for care of patients when
doors are closed.
(Ord. 2507, passed 7-28-1975)
Cross-reference:
   First aid equipment required, see §
7-6
§ 7-2 APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND VEHICLE; ISSUANCE.
   Applications for licenses for ambulances shall be made by the owners or
authorized agent upon blanks to be furnished by the City Clerk of the City of
Flint; and shall contain:
      (a)   The full name, age and residence of the owner.
      (b)   The type of motor car to be used, horsepower, factory number, State
license number, and the length of time that the vehicle has been in use.
   The application shall be immediately referred to by the City Clerk to the
City Administrator, who shall cause an investigation to be made of the fitness
of the applicant as to character and ability, and an inspection of the vehicle
to be licensed, and shall transmit the application with his recommendation, to
the City Council. If, in the opinion of the City Council, the person making the
application is a proper person, both by experience and character, the vehicle
is in a thoroughly satisfactory condition for the transportation or conveyance
of the sick or injured, and the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed ambulance service for which application for license is made, they may
authorize the granting of a license upon payment of the license fee and the
filing of an insurance policy as hereinafter provided, which license shall be
issued by the City Clerk of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 1717, passed 5-20-1963; Ord. 2112, passed 2-4-1969)
§ 7-3 FEE; TERM; LICENSE PLATE.
   The license fee herein provided shall be as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code. All licenses shall expire on April 30 of each year
unless sooner revoked. When the license provided for herein has been granted,
the licensee shall affix to the ambulance so licensed, a small plate, not
exceeding six (6) inches in diameter, which shall bear a number assigned to the
vehicle licensed. The design of said license plate shall be changed annually,
and shall be issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1717, passed 5-20-1963)
§ 7-4 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued hereunder until and unless the applicant for
license deposits with the City Clerk a prepaid policy or certificate of
liability insurance for each ambulance for which a license is sought, said
policy of liability insurance to be accepted and approved by the Chief Legal
Officer and issued by a company authorized to do business in the State of
Michigan, indemnifying applicants in the sum of at least twenty-five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) for injury or death to one person, or fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) for injury or death to more than one person, and ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) property damage in any one accident through the
operation of the vehicle of the applicant. The policy of insurance so deposited
shall contain a clause obligating the company issuing same to give ten days’
written notice before cancellation thereof to the City Clerk. The license for
the operation of the vehicle shall expire upon the lapse or termination of the
policy of insurance.
(Ord. 1717, passed 5-20-1963)
§ 7-5 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   Any police officer of the City of Flint shall have the right, at any time,
to inspect any vehicle licensed under the provisions of this ordinance to
determine if the vehicle is equipped with such equipment as is required by the
statutes of the State of Michigan and the ordinances of the City of Flint, and
to determine if the vehicle and equipment are in proper condition and
adjustment as required by the statutes and ordinances.
(Ord. 1717, passed 5-20-1963)
ARTICLE II. ATTENDANTS AND DRIVERS
§ 7-6 CERTIFICATE OF FITNESS; FIRST AID EQUIPMENT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated any
ambulance, public or private, or any other vehicle commonly used for the
transportation or conveyance of the sick or injured, without having such
vehicle equipped with a set of simple first aid and splint appliances approved
by the Health Officer and having in attendance at all times such vehicle is in
use persons who have obtained certificates of fitness as ambulance attendants
from the Health Officer.
(Ord. 435, passed 7-21-1941)
§ 7-7 OPERATION OF AMBULANCE; EMT-A COURSE.
   No person shall drive, attend or permit to be operated, any ambulance used
for the transportation of the sick and injured, unless it shall be under the
immediate supervision and direction of an individual who is holding a currently
valid license as either an attendant-driver or as an attendant. At least one of
such individuals holding a currently valid license as an attendant-driver or
attendant shall have successfully completed the Emergency Medical Technician-
Ambulance (EMT-A) course recognized and/or certified by the Michigan Department
of Public Health.
(Ord. 435, passed 7-21-1941; Ord. 2508, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 7-8 RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS.
   Certificates of fitness as ambulance attendants as provided herein shall be
annually by persons holding said certificates. Renewal certificates shall be
issued by the Health Officer as provided in §
7-6 hereof for issuance of original certificates. Upon failure of any person to
renew said certificate as herein provided, such certificate shall be cancelled
by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 435, passed 7-21-1941; Ord. 886, passed 10-3-1949)
§ 7-9 DRIVER LICENSE; COMPLETION OF EMT-A COURSE.
   No person, either owner or employee, shall drive any ambulance, public or
private, or any other vehicle commonly used for the transportation or
conveyance of the sick or injured on emergency runs, for hire in the City of
Flint without having first obtained a license from the City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall issue a license to a driver, attendant or attendant-driver
hereunder, valid for a period of one (1) year, unless earlier suspended,
revoked, or terminated when he finds that the applicant:
      (a)   Is not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors or narcotics and
is morally fit for the position;
      (b)   Is able to speak or communicate, read and write the English
language;
      (c)   Has attained the age of 18 years;
      (d)   Has been found by a duly licensed physician to be of sound
physique, possessing eyesight corrected to at least 20/40 in the better eye,
and free of physical defects or diseases which might impair the ability to
drive or attend an ambulance; and
      (e)   That such applicant has a currently valid certificate evidencing
successful completion of an advanced first aid course given by the American Red
Cross and has Cardio-pulmonary Resuscitation Certification by the Michigan
Heart Association and/or American Red Cross.
   All applicants for licenses hereunder shall fill out upon a blank form to be
supplied by the office of the City Clerk a statement giving his full name,
present residence, place of residence for five years previous thereto, age,
height, weight, color of eyes and hair, place of birth, length of time he has
resided in the County of Genesee, married or single, how long he has driven an
automobile, whether he has ever been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor or
found guilty of a violation of any traffic laws, whether he has been licensed
previously as a driver or chauffeur, and if so when and where, whether his
license has ever been revoked and for what cause, which statement shall be
subscribed and sworn to by the applicant and filed with the City Clerk as a
permanent record; each applicant must file with his application two recent
photographs of himself of a size which may easily be attached to the license,
when issued, and one filed with the application, which said application shall
be referred to the City Administrator for investigation and examination as to
whether the applicant is worthy, capable, of good moral character and properly
qualified by experience to operate and drive an ambulance, and as soon as the
examination has been completed, return the application with his report thereon,
to the City Council. Upon approval of the application by the City Council, and
upon payment to the City Clerk of the fee provided herein, the ambulance
driver’s license shall be granted to the applicant by the City Clerk. For each
new application, the fee shall be established from time to time by resolution
of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix
A of the City Code. A fee shall be returned to the applicant if, after
investigation, the license renewal is denied. Said fee shall be established in
Appendix A. The said ambulance driver’s license granted hereunder shall contain
a true photograph of the licensee, the licensee’s name, residence, age, height,
weight, color of hair, color of eyes, and his signature. A full and complete
copy of each application filed and each license issued hereunder, together with
record entries of renewals or revocations thereof, shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk.
   Within one year of the original application for license hereunder, and prior
to the issuance of any renewal thereof, the applicant for a license shall have
enrolled in an Emergency Medical Technician-Ambulance (EMT-A) Course,
recognized and/or certified by the Michigan Department of Public Health, and
within two years of the original application for license and prior to the
issuance of the second renewal thereof, must successfully complete the course.
(Ord. 435, passed 7-21-1941; Ord. 1657, passed 11-27-1961; Ord. 2508, passed 7-
28-1975; Ord. 2522, passed 10-13-1975; Ord. 3400, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 7-10 SAME — RENEWAL.
   Any person holding an ambulance driver’s license may make application for
the renewal of his license for the next year upon forms to be furnished by the
City Clerk entitled “Application for Renewal of License” which shall be filled
out with the full name and address of the applicant together with a statement
of the date upon which his original license was granted and the number thereof,
which shall be immediately referred to the City Administrator; and upon the
return of the application with an endorsement thereon by the City Administrator
that there have been no complaints or convictions against the said applicant
during the preceding year, the City Clerk shall issue an ambulance driver’s
license for the next year upon the payment of the license fee.
(Ord. 435, passed 7-21-1941; Ord. 1657, passed 11-27-1961)
§ 7-11 SAME — SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION; GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   Any license issued under and by virtue of the authority of this ordinance
may be suspended by the City Administrator or revoked by the City Council at
any time and a violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance or of any
traffic ordinance of the City of Flint or State or Federal statutes, shall be
sufficient grounds for the revocation of any license issued hereunder and shall
be considered sufficient grounds for the refusal to grant a license in the
first instance.
(Ord. 435, passed 7-21-1941; Ord. 1613, passed 11-10-1960)
§ 7-12 SAME — DATE OF EXPIRATION.
   All ambulance drivers’ licenses shall expire, unless sooner revoked, on
April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 435, passed 7-21-1941; Ord. 1657, passed 11-27-1961)
CHAPTER 8: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Article I. In General
   
8-1   Hours of operation of places of amusement
   
8-2   Dancing and floor shows prohibited between certain hours
   
8-3   Reserved
Article II. Billiard Halls, Poolrooms and Bowling Alleys
   
8-4   “Billiard room or poolroom” defined
   
8-5   License required
   
8-6   Same — application
   
8-7   Same — term; fees
   
8-8   Same — issuance; investigation
   
8-9   Same — denial suspension
   
8-10   Same — violation; forfeiture
   
8-11   Same — posting
   
8-12   Hours of operation
   
8-13   Reserved
Article III. Card Tables
   
8-14   “Keeper of card table” defined
   
8-15   License required
   
8-16   Same — application
   
8-17   Same — term; fees
   
8-18   Same — investigation; issuance
   
8-19   Same — revocation
   
8-20   Same — posting
   
8-21   Hours of operation
   
8-22   Presence of persons under 17 and students prohibited
Article IV. Firing Ranges and Shooting Galleries
   
8-23   “Firing range or shooting gallery” defined
   
8-24   License required
   
8-25   Same — application
   
8-26   Same — investigation of applicant and facilities
   
8-27   Same — issuance; fee; term; posting
   
8-28   Same — renewal
   
8-29   Same — revocation or suspension
   
8-30   Bond
   
8-31   Inspection of facilities under construction; revocation of license for
failure to comply with plans
   
8-32   Regulations generally
   
8-33   Right of inspection by Police Department
Article V. Public Dance Halls
   
8-34   Definitions
   
8-35   Applicability of regulations
   
8-36   Applicability to private dance
   
8-37   Dances held by clubs and at private residences
   
8-38   Public dance hall license
   
8-39   General public and teenage dance license; Dance Licensing Board
   
8-40   Registration of dances
   
8-41   General rules of conduct
   
8-42   Minimum age at general public dance
   
8-43   Special regulations for teenage dances
   
8-44   Violations generally
Article VI. Public Exhibitions, Shows and the Like
   
8-45   License required
   
8-46   Same — application; investigations; renewals
   
8-47   Same — fees
   
8-48   Same — term
   
8-49   Limitation on time permitted to remain in City
   
8-50   Bond and insurance required from circuses, amusement rides and the like
   
8-51   Applicability of provisions to religious, charitable and like
organizations
   
8-52   Police protection
   
8-53   Games of skill or chance offering prizes not permitted; exception;
criteria
   
8-54   Entering exhibition by stealth prohibited
   
8-55   Display of license upon demand
   
8-56   Free ingress and egress of officers
   
8-57   Immoral, obscene and like shows, pictures and the like prohibited;
advertising as “for adults only” prohibited, exception
Cross-reference:
   Mechanical amusements, see §§
12-24 –
12-37
   Use of parks for sports and hobbies, see §
33-9
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 8-1 HOURS OF OPERATION OF PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.
   Except as herein provided it shall be unlawful for any person or persons,
company or corporation, owning, operating, or in charge of a place of amusement
or entertainment in the City of Flint, to provide any amusement or
entertainment for patrons, customers, or guests between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 7:00 a.m., of each day, or to permit the premises to be occupied by patrons
or customers, or guests between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. of each
day. The provisions hereof shall not apply to private homes, duly licensed and
regularly operated theaters, amusement parks or bowling alleys.
(Ord. 638, passed 7-8-1946)
§ 8-2 DANCING AND FLOOR SHOWS PROHIBITED BETWEEN CERTAIN HOURS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any proprietor, lessee, operator, or manager
of any dance hall, academy, restaurant, café, beer garden, tavern or any other
place of public assemblage, to allow or permit any dancing or floor show
entertainment in such dance hall, academy, restaurant, café, beer garden,
tavern or any other place of public assemblage, between the hours of 1:45 a.m.
until 7:00 a.m.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dance or to
participate in any floor show entertainment in any dance hall, academy,
restaurant, café, beer garden, tavern or any other place of public assemblage,
between the hours of 1:45 a.m. until 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-17-1934; Ord. 1583, passed 8-22-1960)
§ 8-3 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. BILLIARD HALLS, POOLROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 8-4 “BILLIARD ROOM OR POOLROOM” DEFINED.
   (a)   A BILLIARD ROOM or POOLROOM, for the purpose of this chapter shall be
defined as any nonresidential establishment other than hotels and holders of
tavern or Class C liquor licenses in which four (4) or more billiard or pool
tables for hire are located.
   (b)   The provisions of this article shall not be construed to require the
licensing of a private home or the private club house of any legally
incorporated and generally recognized fraternity or society, where billiard or
pool tables or bowling alleys may be located, provided said home or club house
is not open to the general public.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1837, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 2711, passed 6-
11-1979; Ord. 2751, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 8-5 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide for hire a billiard or pool
table in or on any premises a billiard room or poolroom as defined in this
chapter or in an establishment whose principle business is other than the
operation of a billiard room or poolroom but which has four (4) or more such
tables on the premises or a bowling alley within the City, unless same is
provided in a billiard room or poolroom properly licensed without first
obtaining a license therefor as provided in this article.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1837, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 2711, passed 6-
11-1979; Ord. 2751, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 8-6 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to keep or operate for hire any billiard and/
or poolroom or bowling alley shall first make application for a license to the
City Council of the City of Flint in writing setting forth the exact location
of said billiard and/or poolroom, or bowling alley and the number of said
tables or bowling alleys which the applicant intends to keep or operate.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1837, passed 5-10-1965)
§ 8-7 SAME — TERM; FEES.
   After the effective date herein, all licenses granted under this ordinance
shall terminate on September 30 of each and every year. Said applicant shall
further deposit with the City Clerk at the time of filing of said application,
a license fee as prescribed in
Chapter 26 of this code.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1837, passed 5-10-1965)
§ 8-8 SAME — ISSUANCE; INVESTIGATION.
   Upon filing an application hereinbefore provided, the same shall be referred
to the Chief of Police and if, after investigation by said Chief of Police, the
City Council shall determine that said applicant is a fit and proper person to
conduct said tables or bowling alleys, and said applicant has complied with all
of the requirements of this ordinance, then the City Council shall authorize
the City Clerk to issue the applicant a license, which shall expire September
30 subsequent thereto, and in case said application is denied, then the City
Clerk shall return to said applicant all license fees which have been paid by
applicant as hereinbefore provided; provided, the City Clerk shall have the
right to retain a fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this code to cover the cost of the investigation hereinbefore
required.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1837, passed 5-10-1965)
§ 8-9 SAME — DENIAL SUSPENSION.
   (a)   The application for a license as provided for in this article may be
denied or a license issued under this chapter may be suspended forthwith by the
City Clerk, upon receipt of reliable information:
      (1)   That the applicant has been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude; or
      (2)   That the place or room where the tables or bowling alleys are
conducted, is not being operated in conformity with the City Code; or
      (3)   That the place or room where the tables or bowling alleys are
located is a place where illegal activity is being conducted.
   (b)   Upon denial of an application for a license under this chapter, or in
case of a suspension, there is a right to appeal. Written notice of intent to
appeal a denial or suspension must be filed with the City Clerk not later than
ten (10) days after the date when the applicant or licensee receives notice by
registered mail or personal service that his application has been denied or his
license suspended. If an appeal is not made within this ten (10) day period,
the action of the Clerk shall stand.
      Upon filing of a notice of intent to appeal, the City Council at its next
regularly scheduled meeting shall set a date and place for a public hearing
upon said matter. The date shall be a date within fourteen (14) days
thereafter. The hearing shall be conducted by a three (3) person committee to
consist of a Council member, a registered voter of the City of Flint who are to
be appointed by the Council, and a member of the administration who is to be
appointed by the City Administrator. The appellant shall be notified of the
time and place of said hearing and of the facts or conduct which warrant the
intended action of at least seven (7) days in advance. The appellant has the
right to be represented by counsel, to cross- examine witnesses, to produce
witnesses, and the right to a full and fair consideration of the evidence by
the committee at the hearing.
      Within five (5) days after said hearing is completed, the committee shall
make and file written findings with the City Clerk in support of its decision
that the application is denied, or that a license is issued, or that the
license is revoked. The City Clerk shall forthwith notify the appellant of the
committee’s decision.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 2711, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 8-10 SAME — VIOLATION; FORFEITURE.
   Any person or persons who shall be convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this ordinance shall thereupon, in addition to all the penalties
herein provided, be subject to forfeiture of any license granted under the
provisions hereof, and may thereupon become and be disqualified from thereafter
holding a license under this ordinance.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1837, passed 5-10-1965)
§ 8-11 SAME — POSTING.
   Every keeper of any billiard and/or poolroom or bowling alley, shall display
in a conspicuous place in his place of business, his license from the city for
keeping the same.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1837, passed 5-10-1965)
§ 8-12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All billiard rooms or poolroom or other establishments licensed under this
article shall be closed for business between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00
a.m.
(Ord. 637, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1837, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 2711, passed 6-
11-1979)
§ 8-13 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. CARD TABLES
§ 8-14 “KEEPER OF CARD TABLE” DEFINED.
   The KEEPER OF A CARD TABLE is defined to be one who owns, possesses or keeps
a card table whereon others are permitted to play either for hire or otherwise;
except that this ordinance shall not apply to the keeping of card tables not
for hire, in a private home.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946)
§ 8-15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, to keep for hire or for use
any card table, or to engage in or permit card games to be played within the
limits of the City of Flint, without first obtaining a license therefor, as
hereinafter provided. Person or persons for the purpose of this ordinance shall
include all persons, partnerships, associations, clubs or corporations so
engaged.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946)
§ 8-16 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Any person or persons, desiring to keep, operate for hire, or keep for use,
any card table shall first make application for a license to the City Council
of the City of Flint in writing, which application shall be sworn to before the
City Clerk or a deputy City Clerk, and shall contain the following information:
   (a)   Names of applicants and address where any of the equipment covered by
this ordinance is to be used.
   (b)   The number of card tables which are to be kept or operated.
   (c)   If the applicant is an individual or a partnership, the names and
addresses of all applicants and/or partners and a statement of any criminal
convictions or pending criminal prosecutions of or against any such person or
persons.
   (d)   If the applicant is a club, association or corporation, the following
data shall be given, in addition to other requirements of this section:
      (1)   Type of organization.
      (2)   Names and addresses of all officers.
      (3)   Name and address of the person or persons to be in charge of or
manage the premises upon which the equipment covered by this ordinance is to be
used, and a statement of any criminal convictions or pending criminal
prosecutions of or against any such person or persons.
      (4)   If the applicant is a nonprofit organization, a detailed statement
of its purposes and disposition of funds shall be given.
      (5)   All clubs, associations or corporations shall attach to the
application a list of all members or stockholders, the residence addresses
thereof, and the amount of dues paid by each member or stockholder.
   (e)   There shall be attached to the application sets of fingerprints in
duplicate of all individual applicants and partners thereof, and all persons
who are managers or to be in charge of any premises upon which the equipment
covered by this ordinance is to be used. If managers or persons in charge as
set out above are changed during the license year, the requirements of this
ordinance shall be met before such duties are assumed by the new parties
involved.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946)
§ 8-17 SAME — TERM; FEES.
   All licenses granted under this ordinance shall terminate on April 30 of
each and every year. Said applicant shall further deposit with the City Clerk
at the time of the filing of the application a license fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this code.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946; Ord. 1070, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 8-18 SAME — INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   Upon filing the application hereinbefore provided, the same shall be
referred to the Chief of Police and if after investigation by said Chief of
Police, the City Council shall determine that said applicant is a fit, proper
and suitable person to conduct said card tables, and said applicant has
complied with all of the requirements of this ordinance, then the City Council
shall authorize the City Clerk to issue said applicant a license for the
operation of said card tables on the premises set forth in the application,
which shall expire on April 30, subsequent thereto and in case the application
of said applicant is denied, then the City Clerk shall return to said applicant
all license fees which have been paid by the applicant as hereinbefore
provided.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946)
§ 8-19 SAME — REVOCATION.
   The application of any applicant for a license as provided in this ordinance
shall contain an agreement by said applicant, and all licenses issued in
conformity with this ordinance shall contain a provision, that said license may
be revoked by a majority vote of the City Council at any time the City Council
may deem or determine that said applicant is not a fit, proper or suitable
person to conduct or operate a card table or tables within the limits of said
city, or that the place or room where said card tables are conducted is not
being conducted in conformity with this ordinance, or is an immoral or improper
place, and in case of the revocation of said license, then said applicant or
licensee shall forfeit any and all license fees paid under and by virtue of
this ordinance.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946)
§ 8-20 SAME — POSTING.
   Every keeper of any card table shall fasten or hang up, and keep fastened or
hung up in a conspicuous place in his place of business, his license from the
city for keeping the same.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946)
§ 8-21 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All rooms or places where any card tables are kept for hire or use, and all
rooms used in connection therewith, shall be closed on the first day of the
week, commonly called Sunday, and on each weekday night from and after the hour
of 12:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. of the morning of the succeeding day, except that
in all cases where a cigar store, newsstand, club or other business is
conducted in connection with the operation of card tables, the room or place
where the cigar store, newsstand, club or business other than card table
operation is conducted, may remain open.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946)
§ 8-22 PRESENCE OF PERSONS UNDER 17 AND STUDENTS PROHIBITED.
   No minor child under seventeen years of age nor any minor who is a student
in a private, public or parochial school shall be permitted to remain in any
room or place where any card table is kept or operated, or in any room or hall
in which cigars or tobacco are sold or kept for sale adjoining or used in
connection with any such place or room.
(Ord. 636, passed 7-8-1946)
ARTICLE IV. FIRING RANGES AND SHOOTING GALLERIES
§ 8-23 “FIRING RANGE OR SHOOTING GALLERY” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this ordinance:
   A FIRING RANGE and/or SHOOTING GALLERY is defined as a place open to the
public, wherein a charge is made for discharging firearms at a target, and
shall not be deemed to include ranges maintained by any military, police or
other organization to which the public generally is not admitted.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-24 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person firm or corporation to open, operate, or
maintain, or cause to be opened, operated, or maintained, any firing range and/
or shooting gallery as defined in § 8-23 hereof without first obtaining a
license to do so, as provided in this article.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-25 SAME — APPLICATION.
   An application for license to operate a firing range and/or shooting gallery
shall be filed with the City Clerk upon forms to be furnished by him. Such
application shall contain the name and address of the applicant; and if a
corporation, the full and accurate corporate name, when and where incorporated,
name of county where certificate has been filed and date of filing; principal
place of business, full name and address of corporate officers; and if a
partnership, the name and address of the members thereof; and if applicant
conducts business under a trade name, the full and complete trade name and the
name and address of the person or persons doing business under the trade name.
Such application shall recite the proposed location of the firing range and/or
shooting gallery and the number and type of arms to be used, and full and
complete plans and specifications for the construction of the place for
stopping and controlling bullets, and such other information as the City Clerk
shall prescribe.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-26 SAME — INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND FACILITIES.
   The City Clerk shall refer each application for license hereunder to the
Chief of Police, who shall forthwith make or cause to be made an investigation
of the character of the applicant and, in conjunction with the Office of the
Building Inspector, the fitness and suitability of the firing range and/or
shooting gallery from the standpoint of public safety and compliance with the
regulations therefor hereinafter set forth. After completing such
investigation, the Chief of Police shall return said application to the City
Clerk with his recommendation endorsed thereon.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-27 SAME — ISSUANCE; FEE; TERM; POSTING.
   Upon receipt of the application from the Chief of Police with his
endorsement thereon approving the same, the City Clerk shall issue a license
upon the payment of a fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this code. All such licenses shall be for a period of one year
and shall expire on April 30 next following the date of issuance, and there
shall be no rebate for any lesser time. The license shall be conspicuously
exhibited upon the premises licensed hereunder.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-28 SAME — RENEWAL.
   Upon the expiration of any license issued hereunder, the City Clerk shall
not reissue the license without the prior approval of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-29 SAME — REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The City Clerk, upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police, may, at any
time, revoke or suspend the license granted hereunder for failure to comply
with the terms or regulations hereof.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-30 BOND.
   No such license shall be issued by the City Clerk unless and until there has
been deposited with the City Clerk a bond in the sum of $20,000.00 for the
benefit of any person or persons who may receive injuries or suffer death by
reason of the operation of such firing range and/or shooting gallery, which
bond shall be approved by the Chief Legal Officer. In lieu thereof, the
applicant may deposit a policy or certificate of liability insurance acceptable
to and approved by the Chief Legal Officer, insuring and indemnifying the
applicant in a sum of not less than $10,000.00 for the injury or death of one
person and $20,000.00 for the injury or death of two or more persons in any one
accident resulting from the operation of such firing range and/or shooting
gallery. The said policy shall further contain a clause obligating the
insurance company issuing the same to give thirty (30) days’ written notice to
the City Clerk before cancellation of the same. In case the policy of insurance
is not replaced, the license of the licensee shall forthwith be cancelled at
the expiration of said thirty (30)day period.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-31 INSPECTION OF FACILITIES UNDER CONSTRUCTION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLANS.
   During and upon the completion of the construction of the firing range and/
or shooting gallery, the Chief of Police or his appointee shall have the right
of inspection of said facility and if said construction is not in accordance
with the plans and specifications heretofore submitted and approved under § 8-
25, the license issued shall be revoked forthwith and shall not be reissued
except upon the approval of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-32 REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk and any person or persons by him
designated, and every police officer, to enforce the following regulations.
   (a)   No owner, operator or attendant shall permit any person under the
influence of intoxicants or narcotics, or any person under the age of sixteen
(16) years to handle or discharge any firearms upon the premises; provided,
however, any person under the age of sixteen (16) years, accompanied by an
adult, may be permitted the use of the premises.
   (b)   No firing range and/or shooting gallery shall be located nearer than
two hundred (200) feet of any school, church or hospital.
   (c)   Such firing range and/or shooting gallery shall be open to the public
only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and midnight.
   (d)   No gambling shall be suffered upon the premises licensed as a firing
range and/or shooting gallery, but this shall not be construed to prevent the
offering of prizes for marksmanship.
   (e)   A certified National Rifle Association range officer shall be on duty
at the firing range and/or shooting gallery while said facility is open to the
public as provided for in paragraph (c) hereof.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 8-33 RIGHT OF INSPECTION BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the City of Flint shall have the right to inspect
the facilities licensed hereunder at any time the firing range and/or shooting
gallery is open to the public.
(Ord. 1834, passed 5-3-1965)
ARTICLE V. PUBLIC DANCE HALLS
§ 8-34 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose herein, the following definitions apply:
   DANCE LICENSING BOARD. The Board hereinafter provided for.
   PRIVATE DANCE. A dance to which the general public is not invited,
permitted, or allowed to attend. Persons attending a PRIVATE DANCE must have
been specifically invited or requested to attend, either orally or in writing,
by the person or persons sponsoring said dance and the person or persons
sponsoring same must be able to submit, on request, to the person charged with
enforcement of this ordinance, a written list setting forth each and every
person, by name, entitled to attend said dance. Any such dance shall
conclusively be presumed not to be private in nature if announcements relative
to same are posted in any public location in the City of Flint or if
announcements thereof appear in the news media.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance or dancing activity to which members of the general
public may gain admission with or without payment of a charge or fee.
   PUBLIC DANCE HALL. A place to which the public is invited, requested,
permitted or allowed to attend, and at which dancing is allowed or permitted.
   TEENAGE DANCE. Any public dance to which admission is restricted to persons
less than 20 years of age.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968)
§ 8-35 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   No person or organization shall promote, conduct or operate a public dance,
and no person or organization in possession or control of any public dance hall
shall permit or suffer any such dance to be held thereon, except in conformity
with the provisions of this ordinance Provided, however, that a dance sponsored
by the Flint Board of Education, any private, denominational or parochial
school, as defined by Public Act 302 of 1921, being MCLA 388.551 through
388.558, as amended, or any private, denominational or parochial high school
providing full-time education facilities for grades seven through twelve, or
any college or university providing a full-time, four year curriculum and
offering a bachelors degree, and held upon property under the jurisdiction of
the same shall not be subject to the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968)
§ 8-36 APPLICABILITY TO PRIVATE DANCE.
   A private dance as hereinabove defined shall not fall within the ambit of
this ordinance; provided, however, that in the event such private dance is
attended by fifty or more persons, the location at which said dance is held
shall comply with all fire, safety and sanitary regulations as shall be
applicable to public dance halls under this ordinance.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968)
§ 8-37 DANCES HELD BY CLUBS AND AT PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
   In the event the sponsor of said private dance is a bona fide “club” or
other bona fide organization, whether said organization be incorporated or
unincorporated, the charging of admission for said dance shall not affect its
private nature; provided, however, that in the event admission is charged or in
the event the dance is attended by one hundred or more persons, the sponsor of
said club or organization shall be required to maintain at the location at
which said dance is held a full roster of the names, ages and addresses of all
members and no person shall be allowed to attend such dance unless said person
is a member in good standing. No person shall be allowed to acquire a new
membership on the date of the dance and members shall be allowed only one
guest. Under no circumstances shall persons under the age of 17 be allowed to
attend such dances; provided, however, that dances held at private residences
within the City of Flint shall not be covered by this ordinance.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968)
§ 8-38 PUBLIC DANCE HALL LICENSE.
   (a)   Every public dance hall, as herein defined in §
8-34, shall be licensed as required herein. Application shall be made to the
City Clerk by the person or organization in possession or control, and shall
set forth the name and address of the applicant, the names and addresses of its
officers if an organization, and the street address of the proposed public
dance hall. An inspection fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time the
application is filed.
   (b)   Before any license shall be issued the City Clerk shall require an
investigation to be made of the location of the proposed public dance hall by
the appropriate City departments to insure that it complies with all provisions
of law relative to sanitation, ventilation, building and fire safety and zoning
and to establish its rated capacity for public dance purposes. If the location
so complies, the City Clerk shall issue the license, endorsing thereon the
rated capacity as established by the investigation.
   (c)   The license shall be for a period of one year, but in no event shall
the license extend beyond the April 30 succeeding the issuance thereof. An
annual fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code shall be collected by the City Clerk prior to delivery
of the license which shall be kept posted in a prominent place in the public
dance hall.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968)
§ 8-39 GENERAL PUBLIC AND TEENAGE DANCE LICENSE; DANCE LICENSING BOARD.
   (a)   Required.  No person or organization shall promote, conduct or operate
a teenage public dance, within the City, without first obtaining a license
therefor authorized by the Dance Licensing Board. No person or organization
other than duly accredited churches, civic or service clubs or charitable
organizations, and governmental agencies or entities, shall promote, conduct or
operate a general public dance within the City, without first obtaining a
license therefor authorized by the Dance Licensing Board; provided, that any
person or organization may conduct one special event dance in any given twelve
month period, without license, upon registration of the same in accordance with
§
8-40, and performance of the duties imposed upon dance license holders by §
8-41. Licenses shall be of three kinds:
      (1)   Teenage dance license. 
         A teenage dance license held by a business shall be valid for a six
(6) month period and shall be renewable upon approval of the Board and upon
payment of the fees herein provided.
         a.   If the business has a liquor license and is classified as a
saloon or barroom, then the license holder shall place the license in escrow
for the entire day of the teenage dance. The license holder shall do the
following:
         b   Notify the Michigan Liquor Control Commission ten (10) days in
advance of its intent to place the license in escrow; and,
         c   Deliver the license to the Flint Police Department. The license
must be held for at least one (1) full day.
      (2)   Limited use teenage dance license. A person renting a hall for
purposes of holding a teenage dance and the hall is not in possession of a
teenage dance license shall apply for a limited use teenage dance license that
is valid for a single event only.
      (3)   General public dance license. General public dance hall licenses
are annual licenses, covering a one year period, and shall expire on April 30
succeeding issuance thereof, and shall be renewable upon approval of the Board
and upon payment of the fees herein provided.
   (b)   Application. Application shall be made to the City Clerk and referred
by the City Clerk to the Dance Licensing Board for action. An investigation fee
as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time the
application is filed. The application shall set forth the kind of license
sought, the name and address of the applicant, the names and addresses of its
officers if an organization, a copy of the applicant’s liability insurance of
no less than one (1) million dollars, and if a single event, the date upon
which the dance is to be held, and the address thereof; in addition, if a
teenage dance license is sought the approximate attendance expected and the
minimum number of adult supervisors and security who will be in attendance at
all times during the holding of any dance.
   (c)   Dance Licensing Board.  A board which shall be known as the Dance
Licensing Board is hereby established. The Board shall consist of five members,
one of whom shall be the Chief of Police of the City, or his/her designated
representative, one of whom shall be the Superintendent of the Flint Community
Schools, or his/her designated representative, and one of whom shall be the
City Administrator, or his/her designated representative. The remaining members
shall be appointed for the term of two years by the Mayor and confirmed by the
City Council.
   (d)   Investigation of applicant. Upon receipt of an application from the
City Clerk the Board shall cause to be made such investigation as it deems
proper, to determine whether the applicant is a fit and proper person or
organization for holding the license applied for. Favorable reports shall be
required before approving any application. After completion of its
investigation the Board shall endorse upon the application its approval or
disapproval, and promptly return the same to the City Clerk.
   (e)   Fire inspection. The applicant for a teenage dance license shall
submit to a fire inspection for each teenage dance license requested thirty
(30) days prior to the event.
   (f)   Issuance; fees.  Upon receipt for the Board of any approved
application the City Clerk shall issue the appropriate license. A license fee
as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code shall be collected by the City Clerk prior to delivery
of the license, which shall be posted in a prominent place at the location of
any dance held thereunder.
   (g)   Revocation or suspension.
      (1)   Any license issued under this section may be revoked or suspended
by the Board if any of the following conditions exist or occur:
         a.   Material misstatement in the license application.
         b.   Violation of any provisions of this article.
         c.   The holding of any dance under the license issued which will not
comport with the public peace and welfare.
      (2)   In the event of such revocation or suspension, the licensee shall
have the right to appeal from the action taken to the City Council.
   (h)   Promulgation of rules. The Board is hereby authorized to adopt such
rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry out its duties.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968; Ord. 3200, passed 4-27-1992; Ord. 3746, passed 1-
12-2009)
§ 8-40 REGISTRATION OF DANCES.
   The holder of a general public dance or teenage dance license shall register
in writing each dance to be held, not later than five days in advance, with the
Chief of Police of the City of Flint. Failure to so register shall be valid
grounds for shutting down any such dance. The registration of a teenage dance
shall list the names and addresses of the adult supervisors for such dance. All
such registration shall state the location and the hours the dance will be
conducted, and such other information as the Chief of Police shall request.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968)
§ 8-41 GENERAL RULES OF CONDUCT.
   The following general provisions shall apply to and regulate all public
dances:
   (a)   No public dance shall be promoted, conducted or operated except in a
public dance hall licensed under this ordinance.
   (b)   The premises identified in any dance registration or used for any
public dance shall be subject to inspection by proper City officials at all
reasonable times prior to the dance, and at all times during the course of the
dance. Holders of dance and dance hall licenses shall conform to all lawful
orders issued relative to decorations, conditions of the premises, including
the level of lighting, and conduct of the dance.
   (c)   Good order and decorum shall be maintained at all times during any
public dance.
   (d)   No greater number of persons shall be permitted in any public dance
hall at one time than appears upon the license thereof as its rated capacity.
Intoxicated persons shall not be permitted to dance or loiter upon the
premises.
   (e)   It shall be the responsibility of the holder of the public dance
license to control conduct at any public dance, and comply with the provisions
herein. If disorderly, indecent, or rowdy conduct continues at any dance, the
licensee, or proper City officials, shall terminate and shut down such dance,
and upon their orders the dance hall shall be cleared and vacated. Inability of
a public dance licensee to control a dance shall be grounds for suspension or
revocation of his license by the Dance Licensing Board.
   (f)   No person shall loiter around or about the premises of any public
dance during the time of the dance or immediately before and after such dance.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968; Ord. 3748, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 8-42 MINIMUM AGE AT GENERAL PUBLIC DANCE.
   No person under the age of 17 years shall attend or be on the premises of
any general public dance unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, and
no person shall knowingly authorize or permit such unlawful attendance.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968)
§ 8-43 SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR TEENAGE DANCES.
   In addition to the general regulations for public dances, the following
special regulations shall apply to all teenage dances:
   (a)   No minor admitted to a teenage dance shall be permitted to leave and
thereafter reenter the dancing premises during the course of the event;
provided, that pass-out checks may be issued in emergencies when authorized
specifically by the person in charge of the dance.
   (b)   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, consumed, available on display
or on the premises in or about which any teenage dance is held. Admission to
any teenage dance shall be denied to any person showing evidence of drinking
any alcoholic beverage or who has any alcoholic beverage on his person.
   (c)   No cigarettes or tobacco products shall be sold, used or be on display
or available on the premises in or about which any teenage dance is held.
   (d)   Sufficient adult supervision and security shall be provided by the
teenage dance licensee at every teenage dance. If the Chief of Police shall
determine that the supervision listed in the registration, or the supervision
provided at the dance is not satisfactory or adequate, such supervision shall
be replaced or supplemented as required. It shall be the responsibility of the
supervisors, together with the dance licensee, to see that the provisions of
this article and all other applicable ordinances are carried out at every
teenage dance.
   (e)   No dancing at any teenage dance shall be permitted after the hour of
12:00 midnight unless special authorization in writing has been obtained for
the particular dance from the Dance Licensing Board. Such authorization may be
granted within said Board’s discretion, upon the showing of a valid and
justifiable reason therefor.
   (f)   No person of the age of 20 years or over, and no person under the age
of 15 years shall attend or be permitted to attend any teenage dance as a
participant. This shall not prohibit attendance as nonparticipants or
chaperones, parents and duly registered supervisors as provided in § 8-39, nor
shall it prohibit persons employed as entertainers, musicians, waitresses,
attendants and the like at such dances.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968; Ord. 3749, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 8-44 VIOLATIONS GENERALLY.
   Any person who shall by himself, directly or indirectly, or by any agent or
employee, by any manner or means whatsoever, make any false statement in a
license application, or fail to comply with, or violate, any provision of this
ordinance, shall upon conviction thereof be punished as provided in §
1-7.
(Ord. 2057, passed 6-3-1968)
ARTICLE VI. PUBLIC EXHIBITIONS, SHOWS AND THE LIKE
§ 8-45 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person or persons, company or corporation shall, within the limits of the
City of Flint, act, perform or exhibit any sports, any museum, natural or
artificial curiosities, or any circus or Wild West Show, or any theatrical
presentation, concert or musical entertainment, or any sleight-of-hand,
juggling or legerdemain tricks; or other public exhibition, entertainment,
shows or amusements of whatever kind, name or nature, to which admission is
obtained on the payment of money, or valuable consideration, or operate an
auditorium, opera house, hall, theater, skating rink, penny arcade, archery
range, or amusement rides, without first having obtained a license from the
City Clerk therefor, except such as may be exhibited or performed in a licensed
auditorium, theater, opera house, hall, or skating rink.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 1894, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 8-46 SAME — APPLICATION; INVESTIGATIONS; RENEWALS.
   Each person, company or corporation desiring to obtain a license as
described in §
8-45 shall make a written application therefor, and the statements contained
therein shall be subscribed and sworn to by the applicant or his or its
authorized agent, to the City Clerk on a form furnished by the City Clerk at
least ten (10) days before such license may be issued to operate such business.
   The application shall contain the applicant’s name, age, title, residence
and post office address, and shall state if applicant is an individual, company
or corporation. If applicant is a corporation it shall give the state in which
incorporated and if applicant is a company or corporation, it shall give the
local and district office address and names, addresses, and titles of said
officers. It shall state where the business is to be operated, the zoning of
said property on which it is to be operated; the name and address of the person
in charge or to manage said business; a statement that no games of chance shall
be operated if license is granted; the number of days applicant desires to
operate said business; number of seats contained in any auditorium, theater,
opera house or skating rink; number of speakers if a drive-in theater and such
other information as the City Clerk shall prescribe. Applicants must also
furnish satisfactory proof that all State laws and safety regulations have been
complied with.
   Upon filing application as hereinbefore provided, the same shall be referred
to the Chief of Police, Fire Department and Health Department and if, after
investigation the City Council shall determine that said applicant is a fit and
proper person to conduct the activity for which a license is sought, and said
applicant has complied with all of the requirements of this ordinance, then the
City Council shall authorize the City Clerk to issue said applicant a license.
In case the application of said applicant is denied, then the City Clerk shall
return to said applicant all license fees which have been paid by applicant as
hereinafter provided; provided, however, the City Clerk shall have the right to
retain an amount specified in
Chapter 26 of this code, or the contemplated fee for the first day of operation
to cover the cost of the investigation hereinbefore required.
   Renewals shall be considered as new applications for the purpose of
investigation and inspection.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 1894, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 8-47 SAME — FEES.
   Fees shall be paid by the applicant upon filing the application for said
business and the amount of the fee shall be as specified in
Chapter 26 of this code.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 1894, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 8-48 SAME — TERM.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire at 12:00 midnight on April 30
each year unless said license was granted for a shorter period of time ending
before that date, or unless sooner revoked by the City Council.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 1894, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 8-49 LIMITATION ON TIME PERMITTED TO REMAIN IN CITY.
   No show, amusement and the like of the type described in § 8-45 shall be
allowed to remain within the City for longer than 14 consecutive days.
§ 8-50 BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED FROM CIRCUSES, AMUSEMENT RIDES AND THE LIKE.
   Before any license for a circus or menagerie, or both combined, or amusement
rides or wild west show is issued as provided herein, the applicant shall
deposit with the City Clerk a cash bond in the sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) conditioned upon the faithful observance of this ordinance, and
conditioned further that no damage will be done to the streets, sewers or other
public or private property and that the same will be restored to the condition
which existed prior to use by such licensee, and that no dirt, paper, litter or
other debris will be permitted to remain upon the streets or upon any public or
private property by such licensee. Such cash bond which has been deposited
shall be returned upon certification of the Director of Public Works and
Utilities and the Chief of Police that all conditions of this ordinance have
been complied with and that the property, both public and private, and streets
where such circus or menageries, or both combined, or amusement rides, or Wild
West Show has been held is placed in a neat condition and all debris removed.
Said cash bond shall be further conditioned that the applicant shall pay the
necessary license fees to the City Clerk.
   The applicant for a license as provided herein, before such license is
granted, shall furnish evidence to the City Clerk that a public liability
insurance policy in amounts of not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for one person and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00)
for any one accident, covering death or injury to persons or damage to property
caused in the operation under the license, will be in force and effect at the
time such circus or menagerie, or both combined, amusement rides or Wild West
Show is to operate in the City of Flint, with the City of Flint as an
additional named insured, and the insurance policy or certificate shall be
approved by the Chief Legal Officer.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 1894, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 8-51 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS TO RELIGIOUS, CHARITABLE AND LIKE
ORGANIZATIONS.
   The provisions of §
8-47 relative to license fees shall not apply to any activity mentioned in §
8-45 hereof, the proceeds from which are to be applied for any religious,
charitable, or benevolent purpose as evidenced by application to and approval
by the Tag Day Committee. Failure to secure approval of the Tag Day Committee
may be cause for denial of the waiver of the fees required herein. The City
Council shall, before such license is issued, determine whether or not proceeds
from any of the activities mentioned in §
8-45 are to be applied for religious, charitable or benevolent purposes.
Nothing contained herein shall operate to exempt any person or religious,
charitable or benevolent organization from securing a license or the provisions
of §
8-50.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 1894, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 8-52 POLICE PROTECTION.
   Upon referral to the City Council, said Council shall determine whether
police protection shall be necessary during the hours of operation, and if
necessary, it shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of the license and
the licensee shall provide such police protection during the hours of operation
as recommended by the Chief of Police and said licensee shall provide the
police protection at his own expense.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 1894, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 8-53 GAMES OF SKILL OR CHANCE OFFERING PRIZES NOT PERMITTED; EXCEPTION;
CRITERIA.
   Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to permit games of
chance or games of skill and chance wherein a prize or monetary reward is
given.
   However, games of skill conducted in accordance with the following criteria
are permitted:
   (a)   Winning the game of skill does not require great skill on the part of
the participant;
   (b)   The game does not constitute a fraud upon the participants;
   (c)   The game is not similar to games of chance in which winning depends
primarily upon fortuitous or accidental circumstances beyond the control of the
participant, including games such as roulette, beans, cards, dice or wheels of
fortune nor is the game one which includes a mechanical or physical device
which directly or indirectly impedes, impairs or thwarts the skill of the
player;
   (d)   The prize has normal value and is not redeemable or convertible into
cash, directly or indirectly.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 1894, passed 3-21-1966; Ord. 2948, passed 4-
22-1985)
§ 8-54 ENTERING EXHIBITION BY STEALTH PROHIBITED.
   Any person who shall surreptitiously, or by stealth enter any building, tent
or inclosure in which any exhibition is being or to be held, shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding five dollars and the costs of prosecution, and the
court before whom such conviction shall be had may make a further sentence that
in default of the payment of such fine and costs within a time to be fixed by
the court, the person so convicted shall be imprisoned in the county jail or
city prison, until such fine and costs be paid for a term not exceeding ten
days.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909)
§ 8-55 DISPLAY OF LICENSE UPON DEMAND.
   Any person company or corporation claiming to hold a license issued under
this ordinance shall on the demand of any of the officers named in §
8-56 or any member of the License Committee, exhibit the same to such officer
or member of the License Committee for his inspection.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909)
§ 8-56 FREE INGRESS AND EGRESS OF OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police and all such other constables and police officers as
shall be designated by the Chief of Police shall have free ingress and egress
to and from any shows, or exhibitions licensed under the provisions of this
ordinance, and to and from all licensed theaters, halls, and rinks, for the
purpose of preserving quiet and good order.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909)
§ 8-57 IMMORAL, OBSCENE AND LIKE SHOWS, PICTURES AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED;
ADVERTISING AS “FOR ADULTS ONLY” PROHIBITED, EXCEPTION.
   No person or persons shall within the City act, perform or exhibit or engage
in assisting therein any sport, public exhibition, entertainment, show or
amusement or performance whatever of any immoral, indecent or obscene
character, nor shall any person exhibit any indecent, immoral or obscene
picture or maintain in a public place any machine containing such a picture. No
person or company operating under this ordinance and in whose place of
amusement or exhibition shall be displayed motion pictures of any character,
kind or description shall advertise, either on the screen thereof or by posters
and/or billing, or by any other type of public advertising, said motion picture
as being “For Adults Only” or other similar advertising indicating that the
motion picture is not suitable for exhibition to minors provided, however, that
these provisions shall not be construed as prohibiting the use, in advertising
or otherwise, of “codes” or other designations indicating the audience for
which a motion picture is recommended. “Codes” or other designations indicating
that motion pictures are not suitable for exhibition to minors shall be
permitted if such “code” or designation is part of a comprehensive scheme or
program whereby motion pictures are classified as to recommend audiences;
provided, however, that such code or designation need not necessarily be used
in the advertising of all motion pictures in order to fall within the exception
hereinabove set forth.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-25-1909; Ord. 844, passed 2-7-1949; Ord. 1961, passed 2-13-
1967)
CHAPTER 9: ANIMALS AND FOWL *
Section
Article I. In General
   
9-1   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
9-2   Transportation of live animals in cruel manner prohibited
   
9-3   Abandoning of diseased, disabled and like animal; permitting aged,
diseased and like animal to suffer
   
9-4   Transportation of animals generally; keeping of animals by licensed
slaughterhouses
   
9-5   Animals running at large
   
9-5.1   Burial of dead animals
Article II. Dogs
Division 1. Generally
   
9-6   Barking dog prohibited; exception
   
9-7   Dog running at large prohibited
   
9-8   Same — what constitutes
   
9-9   Same — seizure
   
9-10   Keeping dog that destroys or trespasses on others’ property
   
9-11   Permitting female dog in heat to run at large
   
9-12   Confining to create unsanitary, obnoxious and like conditions
   
9-12.1   Cleaning pens, yards and the like
   
9-12.2   Defecating on private, public property
   
9-13   Person deemed keeping or harboring
   
9-14   Prima facie evidence of ownership
   
9-14.1   Issuance of appearance ticket to commence prosecution for violation
   
9-14.2   Waiver of right to arraignment
   
9-14.3   Penalty for subsequent violations
Division 2. Vicious Dogs
   
9-14.4   Animals; keeping prohibited
   
9-14.4.1   Removal of prohibited animal; exceptions
   
9-14.5   “Vicious dog” defined
   
9-14.6   Keeping of vicious dog regulated
   
9-14.7   Reporting requirements
   
9-14.8   Failure of owner or keeper to comply
   
9-14.9   Violation and penalties
   
9-14.10   Order to show cause; killing or confining of dog
   
9-14.11   Noncompliance with order; fine; court costs
   
9-14.12   Severability
Article III. Fowl
   
9-15   Running at large prohibited; exception
   
9-15.1   Keeping of poultry and the like restricted
   
9-16   Yard and the like — required size
   
9-17   Same — distance from buildings
   
9-18   Same — cleaning schedule
   
9-19   Keeping crowing rooster
   
9-20   Transportation; slaughtering house
   
9-21   Storage awaiting sale or slaughter
   
9-22   Pigeons
Article IV. Nonhuman Primates
   
9-23   Keeping for scientific, educational or exhibition
   
9-24   Keeping for other purposes prohibited
   
9-25   “Nonhuman primates” defined
   
9-26   Bona fide exhibition purposes enumerated
   
9-27   Selling, reselling or distributing for exhibition without evidence of
that purpose
   
9-28   Persons deemed keepers of nonhuman primates
   
9-29   Penalty for keeping in violation
   
9-30   Penalty for selling, reselling or distributing in violation
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 9-1 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or work when overloaded or
unfit for labor, overwork, torture, torment, cruelly beat, maim, disfigure, or
without just cause or excuse kill an animal, or for an owner, possessor, or
person who assumes the custody or charge of an animal, to abandon it or cause
the animal to be abandoned in any place without making provisions for the
animal’s adequate care by providing it with sufficient food, water, shelter and
medical attention to maintain the animal in a state of good health.
(Ord. 232, passed 1-25-1927; Ord. 3333, passed 7-8-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Animal cruelty laws, see MCLA 750.50
§ 9-2 TRANSPORTATION OF LIVE ANIMALS IN CRUEL MANNER PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons shall carry or cause to be carried in or upon any
vehicle or otherwise, any live animal having the feet or legs tied together or
in any other cruel or inhumane manner or without providing suitable racks,
crates or cages in which such animal may stand up or lie down during
transportation or while awaiting slaughter or sale.
(Ord. 232, passed 1-25-1927)
§ 9-3 ABANDONING OF DISEASED, DISABLED AND LIKE ANIMAL; PERMITTING AGED,
DISEASED AND LIKE ANIMAL TO SUFFER.
   No person or persons shall abandon any diseased, maimed, hopelessly sick,
infirmed or disabled animal to die in any place, or willfully or negligently
permit or allow any aged, diseased, maimed, hopelessly sick, or disabled animal
to suffer unnecessary torture or pain.
(Ord. 232, passed 1-25-1927)
§ 9-4 TRANSPORTATION OF ANIMALS GENERALLY; KEEPING OF ANIMALS BY LICENSED
SLAUGHTERHOUSES.
   Nothing provided herein shall prevent the transportation of animals within
the City of Flint nor the keeping of such animals by licensed slaughterhouses,
provided, that the provisions of Ordinance 877, approved August 8, 1949 shall
be complied with.
(Ord. 1044, passed 9-22-1952)
§ 9-5 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person being the owner of, in possession of or having control of any
animals shall permit such animal to run at large upon any street, alley, park
or other public place in the City of Flint or upon the land or property of any
person other than the owner or person in possession of or having control of
such animals.
(Ord. 1044, passed 9-22-1952)
§ 9-5.1 BURIAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury within the City, the carcass of
any dead horse, mule, horned cattle, sheep, swine, or other animal, the weight
of which is more than twenty (20) pounds.
(Ord. 3252, passed 9-27-1993)
ARTICLE II. DOGS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 9-6 BARKING DOG PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to own, keep,
harbor or have charge of any dog, which by loud, frequent and consistent
barking, howling or yelping shall cause serious annoyance or disturbance to the
neighborhood in which such dog is so kept or harbored or to persons passing to
and fro upon the streets and highways.
   It is intended that this provision shall not be construed to interfere with
the owning, keeping, harboring or having charge of a dog or dogs in the City of
Flint where such dog or dogs indulge in occasional or infrequent barking,
howling or yelping, it being understood and recognized that any dog, no matter
how well kept or trained, is apt to bark, howl or yelp occasionally, but that
this provision of the ordinance is designed to take care of situations where a
dog or dogs are kept on premises in the City and by their loud, frequent and
consistent barking create a nuisance to the neighborhood in which the dog is
kept.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950; Ord. 911, passed 4-24-1950)
§ 9-7 DOG RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning, keeping,
harboring or having charge of any dog or dogs to suffer or permit such dog or
dogs to run at large within the limits of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950)
§ 9-8 SAME — WHAT CONSTITUTES.
   A dog shall be deemed to be RUNNING AT LARGE within the meaning of this
ordinance when said dog shall wander unrestrained on any streets, alleys, parks
or public places within the City or upon any private property within the City
other than that of the person owning, keeping, harboring or having charge of
such dog.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950)
§ 9-9 SAME — SEIZURE.
   It shall be lawful for every person acting under the direction of the Chief
of Police of the City to seize any dog running at large in the City in
violation of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950; Ord. 2586, passed 1-24-1977)
§ 9-10 KEEPING DOG THAT DESTROYS OR TRESPASSES ON OTHERS’ PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to own, keep,
harbor or have charge of any dog, either licensed or unlicensed, that by the
destruction of property or trespassing on property other than said person
owning, keeping, harboring or having charge of said dog shall become a nuisance
in the vicinity where so kept.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950)
§ 9-11 PERMITTING FEMALE DOG IN HEAT TO RUN AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning, keeping,
harboring or having charge of any female dog, licensed or unlicensed, knowingly
to permit her to run at large while in heat.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950)
§ 9-12 CONFINING TO CREATE UNSANITARY, OBNOXIOUS AND LIKE CONDITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning, keeping,
harboring or having charge of any dog to collect, confine, keep or harbor said
dog or dogs in a structure, pen, coop or yard or otherwise so as to create an
unsanitary, unwholesome, malodorous or obnoxious condition. Any structure, pen
or coop maintained for the purpose of confining, keeping or harboring any dog
shall not be constructed or maintained so as to be nearer than five feet of any
property line.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950; Ord. 2397, passed 6-25-1973)
§ 9-12.1 CLEANING OF PENS, YARDS AND THE LIKE.
   Any person, firm or corporation owning, keeping, harboring or having charge
of any dog shall keep the yard, pen, shelter or building provided and
maintained for the confinement of such dog or used for the housing or harboring
or keeping of such dog clean by removing from the premises all manure and waste
matter from which odors may arise or which may act as vermin harborage, at
least once each day.
(Ord. 2217, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 9-12.2 DEFECATING ON PRIVATE, PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Any person who owns a dog shall accompany said dog when the dog is on public
property or on private property not owned by the person, and in the event that
said dog should defecate on said public property or private property not owned
by the person, the person shall immediately remove the fecal matter from the
property and transport same back to the person’s own property to be properly
disposed of.
(Ord. 2825, passed 2-8-1982)
§ 9-13 PERSON DEEMED KEEPING OR HARBORING.
   Any person allowing a dog habitually to remain and be lodged within his or
her house, store, building, enclosure or premises shall be considered as
keeping or harboring the same within the meaning of this ordinance.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950)
§ 9-14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP.
   In all prosecutions for violation of this ordinance the records of the
County Treasurer’s Office showing the name of the owner and the license number
to whom any license was issued, and the license tag affixed to the collar or
harness of the dog showing a corresponding number shall be prima facie evidence
of ownership of any dog.
(Ord. 902, passed 2-27-1950)
§ 9-14.1 ISSUANCE OF APPEARANCE TICKET TO COMMENCE PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATION.
   A prosecution for a violation of this ordinance may be commenced by the
issuance of an appearance ticket. The individuals designated as Enforcement
Officers by the Chief Administrative Officer shall have the authority to issue
appearance tickets for violations of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2630, passed 4-24-1978)
§ 9-14.2 WAIVER OF RIGHT TO ARRAIGNMENT.
   A person served with an appearance ticket for violation of this ordinance
may waive his or her rights to an arraignment on such charge and voluntarily
enter a plea of guilty and pay a fine of $25.00 at the Court Clerk’s Office if
said person has never before been convicted of any violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2630, passed 4-24-1978)
§ 9-14.3 PENALTY FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS.
   Subject to the penalty maximums set forth in §
1-7 of this code and subject to other provisions of law, persons found guilty
of violating this ordinance on a subsequent occasion shall be punished by a
fine or imprisonment which shall exceed any previous fine or imprisonment
levied against such person for the last previous offense.
(Ord. 2630, passed 4-24-1978)
DIVISION 2. VICIOUS DOGS
§ 9-14.4 ANIMALS; KEEPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own or in any way possess within the
corporate limits of the City of Flint:
   (a)   Any warm-blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous, wild or exotic animals,
dangerous or undomesticated animals which are not of a species customarily used
as an ordinary household pet, but one which would ordinarily be confined in a
zoo, or one which would ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any
other country, or one which otherwise causes a reasonable person to be fearful
of bodily harm or property damage, including, but not limited to nonhuman
primates, raccoons, skunks, foxes and wild and exotic cats; but excluding fowl,
ferrets and small rodents of varieties used for laboratory purposes.
   (b)   Any animal, whether warm or cold-blooded, spider or insect having
poisonous bites.
   (c)   Venomous, cold-blooded reptiles and other cold-blooded animals that,
if in contact with humans, are capable of inflicting fatal injury to the
average human; including, but not limited to, constrictor snakes six (6) feet
or more in length, and all nondomesticated carnivores such as crocodiles,
piranha fish, sharks and the like.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987; Ord. 3250, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 9-14.4.1 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITED ANIMAL; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Any individual, person, business or corporation who owns an exotic or
wild animal as set forth in §
9-14.4 shall have thirty (30) days following the effective date of this
ordinance to remove the animal from the City of Flint.
   (b)   Exceptions to §
9-14.4 shall be as follows:
      (1)   Duly licensed zoological parks and aquariums that are accredited by
the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums;
      (2)   Wildlife sanctuaries;
      (3)   Nature preserves;
      (4)   Circuses; and
      (5)   Bona fide scientific, medical or educational research facilities.
(Ord. 3250, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 9-14.5 “VICIOUS DOG” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter.
   VICIOUS DOG is defined to mean:
      (1)   Any dog with a propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to
cause injury or otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or other domestic
animals; or
      (2)   Any dog which has previously attacked or bitten a human being or
other domestic animal other than under the type of circumstances that would be
justifiable.
      (3)   Any dog which has behaved in such a manner that the owner thereof
knows or should reasonably know that the dog is possessed of tendencies to
attack or bite human beings or other domestic animals other than under the type
of circumstances that would be justifiable.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987)
§ 9-14.6 KEEPING OF VICIOUS DOG REGULATED.
   The keeping of vicious dogs will be subject to the following standards.
   (a)   Leash and muzzle.  No person shall permit a vicious dog to go outside
its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a leash no longer
than four (4) feet in length. No person shall permit such a dog to be kept on a
chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person is
in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to inanimate
objects such as trees, posts, buildings, etc. In addition, all such dogs on a
leash outside of the animal’s kennel must be muzzled with a muzzling device
sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons or other animals.
   (b)   Confinement. All vicious dogs shall be securely confined indoors or in
a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and muzzled
as above provided. Such pen, kennel or structure must have secure sides and a
secure top attached to sides. All structures used to confine such dogs must be
locked with a key or combination lock when such animals are within the
structure. The structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the
sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be embedded in ground to a depth
no less than two (2) feet. All structures erected to house the dogs must comply
with all zoning and building regulations of the City. All such structures must
be adequately lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   (c)   Confinement indoors. No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or
in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a
house or structure where window screens or screen doors are the only obstacle
preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
   (d)   Signs. All owners, keepers or harborers of vicious dogs within the
City shall within ten (10) days of the effective date of this ordinance display
in a prominent place of their premises a sign easily readable by the public
using the words “BEWARE OF DOG.” In addition, a similar sign is required to be
posted on the kennel or pen of the animal.
   (e)   Insurance.  All owners, keepers or harborers of vicious dogs must,
within ten (10) days of the effective date of this ordinance provide proof to
the City of Flint of public liability insurance in a single incident amount of
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for bodily injury to or death of any
person or persons which may result from ownership, keeping or maintenance of
such animal. Such insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the
policy will be made unless ten (10) days written notice is first given to the
City Clerk of the City of Flint.
   (f)   Identification photographs. All owners, keepers or harborers of
vicious dogs must, within ten (10) days of the effective date of this ordinance
provide the City Clerk with two color photographs of the registered animal
clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987)
§ 9-14.7 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   All owners, keepers or harborers of a vicious dog must within one (1) day of
the incident, report the following information in writing to the City of Flint
City Clerk as required hereinafter:
   (a)   The removal from the City or death of a vicious dog;
   (b)   The birth of offspring of a vicious dog;
   (c)   The new address of a vicious dog, should the owner move within the
corporate City limits; or
   (d)   The dog is on the loose, has been stolen or has attacked a person.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987)
§ 9-14.8 FAILURE OF OWNER OR KEEPER TO COMPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or harborer of a vicious dog
within the City of Flint to fail to comply with the requirements and conditions
set forth in this ordinance. Any dog found to be the subject of a violation of
this ordinance shall be subject to immediate seizure and impoundment.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987)
§ 9-14.9 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of this
ordinance shall upon conviction be fined a sum not less than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition
to the fine imposed the Court may sentence the defendant to imprisonment in the
County jail for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days. Each day that a
violation of this ordinance continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In
addition to the foregoing penalties, any person who violates this division
shall pay all expenses, including shelter, food, handling, veterinary care and
testimony necessitated by the enforcement of this ordinance.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987)
§ 9-14.10 ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE; KILLING OR CONFINING OF DOG.
   A District Court Magistrate or a Judge of the District Court shall issue a
summons to show cause why a dog should not be killed, upon a sworn complaint
that any of the following exist:
   (a)   A dog, licensed or unlicensed has destroyed property or habitually
caused damage by trespassing on the property of a person who is not the owner;
   (b)   A dog, licensed or unlicensed, has attacked or bitten a person;
   (c)   A dog has shown vicious habits or has molested a person when lawfully
on a public right-of-way or in a public place;
   (d)   A dog, licensed or unlicensed, has run at large contrary to City
ordinance.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987)
§ 9-14.11 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH ORDER; FINE; COURT COSTS.
   After a hearing the District Court Judge may either order the dog killed, or
confined to the premises of the owner. Failure to comply with the order of a
District Court Judge may result in the owner of the dog against which an order
has been entered being punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or imprisonment in the County jail for not more than ninety (90)
days, or both the fine or imprisonment.
   Court costs for such actions taken shall be taxed against the owner of the
dog against whom the complaint was issued.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987)
§ 9-14.12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any Court of
competent jurisdiction such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 3040, passed 7-27-1987)
ARTICLE III. FOWL
§ 9-15 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person being the owner of, in possession of or having control of any
domestic fowl or fowls shall permit such fowls to run at large upon any street,
alley, park or other public place in the City of Flint or upon lands or
property of any person other than such owner or person in possession of or
having control of such fowl.
(Ord. 1094, passed 4-13-1953)
§ 9-15.1 KEEPING OF POULTRY AND THE LIKE RESTRICTED.
   No poultry or domestic fowl, other than household pets such as canaries and
parakeets, shall be kept upon any residentially zoned lot within the City.
(Ord. 2058, passed 6-10-1968)
§ 9-16 YARD AND THE LIKE — REQUIRED SIZE.
   Any person being the owner of, in possession of or having control of any
fowl or fowls shall provide and maintain a yard, pen, shelter or building for
the confinement of said fowl and shall keep said fowl within the confines of
said yard, pen, shelter or building. No yard, pen, shelter or building shall be
provided or maintained which will provide less than 25 square feet of ground or
floor space for each fowl.
(Ord. 1094, passed 4-13-1953)
§ 9-17 SAME — DISTANCE FROM BUILDINGS.
   All parts of any yard, pen, shelter or building provided and maintained as
required in §
9-16 shall be not less than fifty (50) feet from any building used for dwelling
purposes.
(Ord. 1094, passed 4-13-1953)
§ 9-18 SAME — CLEANING SCHEDULE.
   Any person being the owner of, in possession of or having control of any
domestic fowl shall keep the yard, pen, shelter or building provided and
maintained for the confinement of such fowl clean by removing from the premises
all manure and waste matter from which odors may arise, at least once each day.
(Ord. 1094, passed 4-13-1953)
§ 9-19 KEEPING CROWING ROOSTER.
   No person shall keep any cock, cockerel or rooster which crows.
(Ord. 1094, passed 4-13-1953)
§ 9-20 TRANSPORTATION; SLAUGHTERING HOUSE.
   Nothing provided herein shall prevent the transportation of fowl within the
City of Flint, nor the keeping of such fowl by licensed poultry slaughtering
houses.
(Ord. 1094, passed 4-13-1953)
§ 9-21 STORAGE AWAITING SALE OR SLAUGHTER.
   No person or persons shall offer for sale or hold for slaughter, at the City
Market or at any stand, shop or store any fowl without providing suitable
racks, crates or cages in which the fowl may stand while awaiting sale or
slaughter.
(Ord. 232, passed 1-25-1927)
§ 9-22 PIGEONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, pigeons shall be deemed to be domestic
fowl, except, that the provisions of §§
9-16 and
9-17 as to distance shall not apply to pigeons.
(Ord. 1094, passed 4-13-1953)
ARTICLE IV. NONHUMAN PRIMATES
§ 9-23 KEEPING FOR SCIENTIFIC, EDUCATIONAL OR EXHIBITION.
   Nonhuman primates may be kept in the City of Flint solely for scientific,
educational or bona fide exhibition purposes.
(Ord. 2934, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 9-24 KEEPING FOR OTHER PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   Nonhuman primates may not be kept in the City of Flint as pets or for any
purpose other than those described in §
9-23 above. These animals are regulated because they have been determined by
the National Center for Disease Control to be a significant source of
infectious disease in humans, including hepatitis, tuberculosis and parasitic
infections.
(Ord. 2934, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 9-25 “NONHUMAN PRIMATES” DEFINED.
   NONHUMAN PRIMATES. Include, but are not limited to, animals commonly known
as monkeys, chimpanzees, orangutans, gorillas, gibbons, apes, baboons,
marmosets, tamarinds, lemurs, lorises and galagos.
(Ord. 2934, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 9-26 BONA FIDE EXHIBITION PURPOSES ENUMERATED.
   (a)   The keeping of nonhuman primates for bona fide exhibition purposes is
considered to include:
      (1)   Their display in an organized zoological exhibit which is open to
the general public on a regular basis;
      (2)   Their full-time use in a trained animal act open to the general
public.
   (b)   Bona fide exhibition purposes does not include uses such as display of
a nonhuman primate in a pet store or a private home. The maintenance and
training of a nonhuman primate primarily as a hobby, with occasional display to
groups such as school children is not considered a bona fide exhibition.
(Ord. 2934, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 9-27 SELLING, RESELLING OR DISTRIBUTING FOR EXHIBITION WITHOUT EVIDENCE OF
THAT PURPOSE.
   Keepers of nonhuman primates are not to sell, resell or otherwise distribute
these animals for exhibition purposes without clear evidence that they will be
used as a bona fide exhibit. The intended recipient’s possession of an animal
exhibitor’s license, as issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, is
considered some evidence of this purpose.
(Ord. 2934, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 9-28 PERSONS DEEMED KEEPERS OF NONHUMAN PRIMATES.
   Every person in possession of a nonhuman primate who suffers such nonhuman
primate to remain about his premises for a period of five (5) days or more
shall be deemed to be keeper of the nonhuman primate for the purpose of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 2934, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 9-29 PENALTY FOR KEEPING IN VIOLATION.
   Anyone who keeps a nonhuman primate or primates within the City of Flint in
violation of this ordinance shall be subject to a fine of up to one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and/or thirty (30) days imprisonment for each week the
violation continues.
(Ord. 2934, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 9-30 PENALTY FOR SELLING, RESELLING OR DISTRIBUTING IN VIOLATION.
   Anyone who sells, resells or otherwise distributes nonhuman primate or
primates within the City of Flint in violation of this ordinance shall be
subject to a fine of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) and/or thirty (30)
days imprisonment for each animal sold, resold or distributed.
(Ord. 2934, passed 1-28-1985)
CHAPTER 10: AUCTIONS
Section
   
10-1   Limitation on sites of auctions
   
10-2   Bidding by owners on property being auctioned
   
10-3   Misleading bidders prohibited; Dutch auctions prohibited
   
10-4   Acts in connection with conduct of auction prohibited
   
10-5   Auctioneer’s license required; exception; application; revocation;
nontransferable
   
10-6   Same — fees
   
10-7   Bond required
   
10-8   Applicability of State laws as to transient merchants
   
10-9   Sale of silver, jewelry and the like
   
10-10   Same — each item constitutes separate offense
   
10-11   Sale of household furniture, equipment and the like
Statutory reference:
   Auctions, see MCLA 446.51 et seq.
§ 10-1 LIMITATION ON SITES OF AUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or conduct or aid in holding or
conducting any auction or auction sale of any article or thing whatsoever, upon
any public street, lane, alley or public place in the City of Flint, or in any
room, building, lot or place so situated that the conducting of such auction or
auction sale will attract or induce any person or persons to stand or be upon
any public street, sidewalk or other public place for the purpose of bidding at
such auction or auction sale.
(Ord. 138, passed 12-7-1917)
§ 10-2 BIDDING BY OWNERS ON PROPERTY BEING AUCTIONED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or for any person acting for the owner of
any goods or property sold or offered for sale at any auction in the City of
Flint, to make more than one bid at such sale on any article or thing and then
only when the right to make such bid is reserved and publicly announced at the
time of the opening of any such auction.
(Ord. 138, passed 12-7-1917)
§ 10-3 MISLEADING BIDDERS PROHIBITED; DUTCH AUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or conduct or to aid in holding
or conducting any mock auction or by any fraudulent game, device or practice to
misrepresent to or mislead any person bidding at any auction sale within the
City of Flint, or to conduct any auction or auction sale after the manner of
Dutch auctions by offering any property at a price beyond its value then
gradually lowering the price or adding other property thereto until someone
accepts it as purchaser.
(Ord. 138, passed 12-7-1917)
§ 10-4 ACTS IN CONNECTION WITH CONDUCT OF AUCTION PROHIBITED.
   The following acts, omissions and practices in connection with auction sales
conducted under this ordinance are hereby prohibited:
   (a)   The use of bells, buzzers or any variety of mechanical instrument to
attract attention to the sale.
   (b)   The use of any false or misleading statement of advertising matter
relating to the kind or quality of any goods, wares or merchandise or personal
property to be sold or offered for sale.
   (c)   The substitution of an unlicensed auctioneer in place of a licensed
auctioneer.
   (d)   The failure of an auctioneer at an auction sale to exhibit an
auctioneer’s license to any police officer or any City official upon demand at
the place where the auction is conducted.
   (e)   The use of false bidders, “cappers and puffers.”
(Ord. 389, passed 6-15-1931; Ord. 463, passed 6-26-1933)
§ 10-5 AUCTIONEER’S LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION; APPLICATION; REVOCATION;
NONTRANSFERABLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or conduct or aid in holding or
conducting as an auctioneer in the City of Flint an auction or auction sale of
any real estate or personal property without first obtaining from the City
Council a license for that purpose and paying the license fee or fees
hereinafter provided; and before any such license shall be granted the person
applying therefor shall make an application in writing, giving his name and
address and stating whether a license is desired for a period ending April 30
next following the date of the application, or whether such a license is
desired for the period of ninety days or less, and such application shall
contain an agreement that the license, if granted, shall be accepted on
condition that it may be revoked, for a good cause, by the City Council; and no
such license will be transferred. No license shall be required for a sale at
auction under legal process where such sales are required by law to be made at
public auction.
(Ord. 138, passed 12-7-1917; Ord. 328, passed 7-25-1923)
§ 10-6 SAME — FEES.
   Any person applying for a license hereunder shall pay to the City Clerk a
license fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this code.
(Ord. 138, passed 12-7-1917; Ord. 1066, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 10-7 BOND REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hold or conduct or to aid in holding
or conducting as an auctioneer in the City of Flint any auction or auction sale
without first executing a bond to the people of the State of Michigan with a
surety company authorized to transact business in the State of Michigan as a
surety, in the penal sum of $2,000.00 for the use and benefit of any and all
persons claiming damages because of the violation of any of the provisions of
the ordinance of which this amendment forms a part, which bond shall contain
the conditions that the principal therein will well and faithfully in all
things comply with the provisions of said ordinance and pay or cause to be paid
all loss or damage that any and all persons may sustain by reason of the
failure of said principal to comply with said provisions. The bond shall be
approved by the Chief Legal Officer.
(Ord. 138, passed 12-7-1917)
§ 10-8 APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAWS AS TO TRANSIENT MERCHANTS.
   The sale of any goods at auction which are being handled and sold within the
City of Flint by transient traders or dealers, as defined by laws of the State
of Michigan, shall not excuse the compliance by such transient trader or dealer
with the laws of the State requiring the payment of a license fee as a
transient trader or dealer.
(Ord. 138, passed 12-7-1917)
§ 10-9 SALE OF SILVER, JEWELRY AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation, to
sell, dispose of or offer for sale in the City of Flint at public auction, or
to cause or permit to be sold, disposed of or offered for sale in the City at
public auction any gold, silver, plated ware, precious stones, semiprecious or
synthetic stones, watches, clocks or jewelry, whether the same shall be their
own property or whether they sell the same as agents or employees of others;
provided, that this shall not apply to judicial sales or sales by executors, or
administrators or to sales by or on behalf of licensed pawnbrokers of
unredeemed pledges in the manner provided by law, nor to the sale at public
auction of the stock of any person or persons, firm or corporation that shall,
for the period of one year last preceding such sale, have been continuously in
business in the City of Flint as a retail or wholesale merchant of gold,
silver, plated ware, precious stones, watches, clocks or jewelry; provided
further, that such sale at public auction of the stock of such merchant or
merchants shall be held on successive days, Sundays and legal holidays
excepted, and shall not continue for more than fourteen days and no more than
two such sales shall be held within the period of any calendar year.
(Ord. 389, passed 6-15-1931)
§ 10-10 SAME — EACH ITEM CONSTITUTES SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   Each separate sale at public auction of any article or articles of gold,
silver, plated ware, precious stones, watches, clocks or jewelry in violation
of this ordinance shall constitute a separate offense hereunder.
(Ord. 389, passed 6-15-1931)
§ 10-11 SALE OF HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, EQUIPMENT AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to sell,
dispose of or offer for sale in the City of Flint at public auction, or to
cause or permit to be sold, disposed of or offered for sale in the City at
public auction any new, used and secondhand household furniture, kitchenware,
stoves, ranges, dishes, rugs, carpets, household equipment and floor coverings
of every kind and nature, whether the same shall be their own property or
whether they sell the same as agents and employees of others; provided, that
this shall not apply to judicial sales or sales by executors or administrators
or to sales by or on behalf of licensed pawnbrokers of unredeemed pledges in
the manner provided by law, nor to the sale at public auction of the stock on
hand of any person or persons, firm or corporation that shall, for the period
of one year last preceding such sale, have been continuously in business in the
City of Flint as a retail or wholesale merchants of new, used and secondhand
household furniture, kitchenware, stoves, ranges, dishes, rugs and carpets,
household equipment and floor coverings of every kind and nature; provided
further, that such sale at public auction of the stock on hand of such merchant
or merchants shall be held on successive days, Sundays and legal holidays
excepted, and shall not continue for more than fourteen days and no more than
two such sales be held within the period of any calendar year; provided
further, that this shall not apply to sales by warehousemen of storage goods
sold by them under their lien by virtue of the statute which said goods were
actually in the warehouse in the City of Flint and the storage accrued thereon;
provided further, that this ordinance shall not apply to individual
householders seeking to dispose of their personal effects and have lived at the
address where the sale is conducted for a period of not less than thirty days
preceding the date of said sale. This proviso shall not be construed to mean a
householder disposing of his personal effects is privileged to do so as a
regular means for profit.
(Ord. 463, passed 6-26-1933)
CHAPTER 11: BUILDINGS
Section
Article I. Building Code
   
11-1   Enforcement agency designated
   
11-1.1   Repealer
   
11-2   New certificates of occupancy required for certain vacant buildings
   11-3 – 11-7   Reserved
   
11-8   Conflicting regulations
   
11-9   Reserved
Article II. Moving Buildings and Structures
   
11-10   Permit — required; application; investigation of route
   
11-11   Same — fees
   
11-12   Railroad track crossing
   
11-13   Bond
   
11-14   Street Committee to designate route, safety regulations and the like
   
11-15   Raising or rearranging wires
   
11-16   Same — liability for expense
Article III. Numbering of Buildings and Premises
   
11-17   Compliance
   
11-18   “Philadelphia plan” adopted; division of City
   
11-19   Assigning numbers to vacant lots or unplatted land
   
11-20   Property frontage for purpose of allocating numbers
   
11-21   Posting of numbers — location, size and design
   
11-22   Same — by City at expense of property owner; by property owner
   
11-23   Correction of wrong numbers; affixing omitted numbers
   
11-24   Notification to affix number; failure to affix number
   
11-25   Defacing or removing numbers prohibited
   11-26 – 11-29   Reserved
   
11-30   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
Article IV. Floodplain Management Provisions of the State Construction Code
   
11-31   Purpose
   
11-32   Agency designated
   
11-33   Building Code Appendix enforced
   
11-34   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
   
11-35   Repeals
Cross-reference:
   Building contractors, see §§
12-9 et seq.
   Building materials, storage, see §
30-26
   Electricity, see
Ch. 16
   Heating, see
Ch. 22
   Housing, see
Ch. 24
   Plumbing, see
Ch. 36
   Signs, see
Ch. 3
   Zoning, see
Ch. 50
ARTICLE I. BUILDING CODE
§ 11-1 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provision of the Michigan Building Code, in accordance with
Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of the
City of Flint is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibilities of the City of Flint under Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972,
as amended, State of Michigan. The City of Flint, through its Department of
Public Works and Utilities, Building and Safety Inspections Division, by
adoption of this ordinance, assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of the State of Michigan Building Code and corresponding Part 4
(Michigan) Building Code Rules in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2459, passed 10-23-1974; Ord. 2575, passed 1-10-1977; Ord. 2615, passed
11-27-1977; Ord. 2673, passed 10-23-1978; Ord. 2824, passed 2-8-1982; Ord.
2950, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. 3093, passed 2-27-1989; Ord. 3212, passed 7-13-
1992; Ord. 3226, passed 12-14-1992)
Statutory reference:
   State Construction Code, see MCLA 125.1501 et seq.
§ 11-1.1 REPEALER.
   All ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance are
repealed.
(Ord. 3226, passed 12-14-1992)
§ 11-2 NEW CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN VACANT BUILDINGS.
   If an existing building or structure remains vacant for a period of no less
than one hundred twenty (120) days the owner or agent of the existing building
or structure must secure a new certificate of occupancy before said building or
structure can be used or occupied.
(Ord. 3113, passed 8-28-1989)
§§ 11-3 – 11-7 RESERVED.
§ 11-8 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Where a provision of this ordinance is found to be in conflict with a
provision of zoning, housing, fire safety or health ordinance, or other code,
or codes, of the City of Flint existing on the effective date of this
ordinance, or hereinafter enacted, the provisions of which establishes the
higher standard or assumes the higher jurisdiction, regardless, for the
promotion and protection of the health, safety and welfare of the people of the
City of Flint shall prevail.
(Ord. 1870, passed 10-4-1965; Ord. 2401, passed 8-20-1973)
§ 11-9 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. MOVING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 11-10 PERMIT — REQUIRED; APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION OF ROUTE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall move, attempt to move, or assist in the
moving of any building, buildings, structure, or structures into, along, upon
or across any street, lane, alley or other public place in the City of Flint
without having first made application to and obtained the permission of the
City Council. All applications for permission to move buildings or other
structures upon and over the streets, lanes and alleys of the City of Flint
shall state the route by way of which it is proposed to move the building or
structure, the dimensions of same, and the length of time required to do such
work. Said applications shall have attached thereto one photograph each, not
less than 5" x 7" in size, showing a front view, a rear view, and each side of
said building or structure to be moved.
   Each application shall be accompanied by a certificate or such other
evidence as may be required, showing that the bond hereinafter provided has
been duly executed, filed and approved.
   Before any permit is issued the application therefor shall be referred to
the Street Committee for one week previous to the time of taking action
thereon, who shall investigate the route and determine whether the size of the
building, the applicant’s equipment and all other conditions are such that the
building can be moved within the time specified in the application and in such
manner as not to injure streets, pavements, sidewalks, trees or other property
along the route; and said Street Committee in its report to the City Council
shall recommend a route other than the one contained in the application, as
herein provided, if deemed more advantageous to the City.
(Ord. 43, passed 8-6-1904; Ord. 1798, passed 8-24-1964)
§ 11-11 SAME — FEES.
   Each applicant granted permission to move a building or other structure as
aforesaid, shall, before any work is commenced, pay into the City Treasury the
fees specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code for the use of the City streets for the length of time
required to do the work. In case more time is required than is stated to be
required in the application, there shall first be paid by the applicant to the
City Treasury an additional sum as specified in
Chapter 26 for each additional day; provided, that if the full time stated in
the application is not required in moving the building or structure, there
shall be paid back to him or her by the City Treasurer upon the order of the
City Council the amount paid in excess of the amount required for such time,
and in computing time herein all fractions of a day shall be treated as one
day.
(Ord. 43, passed 8-6-1904; Ord. 1798, passed 8-24-1964)
§ 11-12 RAILROAD TRACK CROSSING.
   Where the route by way of which it is proposed to move a building or
structure crosses railroad tracks at grade level, the applicant shall provide
such evidence as shall be required by the City Clerk, that the railroad
corporation or corporations whose tracks are to be crossed have been notified
of the proposed route of movement.
(Ord. 43, passed 8-6-1904; Ord. 1798, passed 8-24-1964)
§ 11-13 BOND.
   Whenever application shall be made to the City Council of the City of Flint
for permission to move any building or other structure, it shall be the duty of
said City Council, before granting such permission to require the person, firm
or corporation so applying to enter into a bond or other obligation running to
the City of Flint in such penal sum as said City Council shall prescribe and
with one or more sureties to be approved by the City Clerk or Mayor of said
city, conditioned that the streets, lanes and alleys and other public places
shall not be obstructed thereby for a greater length of time than shall be
absolutely necessary to move the said building or other structure; that all
streets, lanes and alleys and other public places shall without delay be
restored to the same condition as before the passage and moving of any building
or other structure; and that he, they or it will fully and fairly compensate
the City of Flint for any and all damage done directly or indirectly to the
pavements, streets, sidewalks, crosswalks and approaches; and any person, firm
or corporation, for any and all damages done directly or indirectly to the
tracks, wires, poles, lawns, shade trees or other property of any such person,
firm or corporation; and for any and all costs and expenses occasioned to any
person, firm or corporation by reason of any of the provisions of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 43, passed 8-6-1904)
§ 11-14 STREET COMMITTEE TO DESIGNATE ROUTE, SAFETY REGULATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall also be the duty of the City Council before granting such
permission to require the Street Committee thereof to designate the route by or
over which any building or other structure shall be moved, and to make such
other orders and regulations as in its judgment the safety and the public
welfare may require.
(Ord. 43, passed 8-6-1904)
§ 11-15 RAISING OR REARRANGING WIRES.
   Every person, company or corporation maintaining, owning, controlling or
operating any electric line, wires, cables or appliances of any kind for
electric lights, power, telephone, telegraph or any purpose whatsoever in the
City of Flint, its public streets, alleys and grounds, shall, when ordered by
the City Council and notified of such order by the Chief of Police, cause its
wires and other appliances to be raised or so arranged as to permit the passage
on any such street, lane, alley or public place, of any building or other
structure that is being moved from one part of the City to the other, when said
removal is authorized by the City Council; provided, however, that in the
removal of such buildings, the streets, lanes, alleys or public places shall
not be obstructed thereby or the wires or other appliances raised or otherwise
arranged to permit the passage of the building shall not be interfered with for
any greater length of time than is absolutely necessary to move said building
over and across the said streets, lanes or alleys or public places or under
said wires so raised or arranged for the passage of the building or other
structure.
(Ord. 43, passed 8-6-1904)
Cross-reference:
   Poles and Wires, see
Ch. 37
§ 11-16 SAME — LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE.
   In case the cables or large telephone wires shall not be of the height from
the ground required by the ordinance of the City of Flint, the said cable or
large wire shall be raised to a sufficient height, the whole of the expense and
cost incurred in raising the same shall be borne by the telephone company;
provided, that if the cable or larger wires are of the height from the ground
provided by the ordinance, and it shall be necessary to raise the same higher
in order that buildings may be moved thereunder, it shall be the duty of the
telephone company to raise the cables or large wires, when ordered by the City
Council, and notified of such order by the Chief of Police, to a sufficient
height temporarily to permit a building to be moved thereunder. The cost and
expense incurred thereby to be paid by the person owning or moving said
building, the amount to be paid therefor by the owner of mover of said building
to be fixed and determined by the Street Committee of the City Council in case
the telephone company and the owner or mover of said building cannot agree as
to said cost and expenses.
   In case of any ordinary telephone wire or guy wire is not sufficient height
from the ground to admit the moving of a building thereunder, the said
telephone company shall, when ordered, by the City Council, and notified of s
order by the Chief of Police, raise said telephone wire or guy wire at its own
cost and expense, to a sufficient height to allow said building to be moved
thereunder.
(Ord. 43, passed 8-6-1904)
ARTICLE III. NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES
§ 11-17 COMPLIANCE.
   All dwellings and business houses in the City shall be numbered in the
manner prescribed in this article.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§ 11-18 “PHILADELPHIA PLAN” ADOPTED; DIVISION OF CITY.
   The numbering of houses and places shall be in accordance with the system
and plan known as the “Philadelphia plan,” and for that purpose the City shall
be divided into north and south by the Flint River and east and west by Detroit
Street and Saginaw Street South.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§ 11-19 ASSIGNING NUMBERS TO VACANT LOTS OR UNPLATTED LAND.
   All vacant lots or unplatted land shall be assigned numbers in accordance
with the general plan provided for in this article.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§ 11-20 PROPERTY FRONTAGE FOR PURPOSE OF ALLOCATING NUMBERS.
   For the purpose of numbering, all property in the City, except that property
on Saginaw Street between Court Street and the south bank of the Flint River,
each twenty feet of frontage shall be considered a lot and assigned a number,
and whenever the occupancy is not in harmony therewith, the occupancy shall be
assigned a number of the lot the greater part of which is included in such
occupancy; provided, that whenever a portion of a lot is occupied separately,
it shall be numbered the same as the last preceding number, with the fraction
“1/2” added. For the purpose of numbering the property on Saginaw Street
between Court Street and the south bank of the Flint River, the property shall
be divided into ten feet of frontage, and a full number assigned to each such
ten feet of frontage, starting with the number 100 in accordance with the plan
and blueprint of the Department of Public Works and Utilities filed with the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§ 11-21 POSTING OF NUMBERS — LOCATION, SIZE AND DESIGN.
   The numbers provided for in this article shall be securely fastened or
inscribed in a conspicuous place in front of each building, occupancy or
premises, and shall be in plain legible figures, not less than two inches in
length.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§ 11-22 SAME — BY CITY AT EXPENSE OF PROPERTY OWNER; BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   The City may, at the expense of the property owners, procure and fasten up
suitable figures so as to complete the numbering of the buildings in the City
in accordance with the provisions of this article, and for that purpose its
agents, employees or the contractor therefor may go upon the premises of all
persons without let or hindrance; provided, that all citizens desiring to do so
may procure and fasten up or inscribe such number at their own expense, but the
same shall be done under the general plan provided in this article, and under
the direction and to the satisfaction of the Street Committee.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§ 11-23 CORRECTION OF WRONG NUMBERS; AFFIXING OMITTED NUMBERS.
   Whenever any building, occupancy or premises shall have been numbered as
provided in this article, and shall hereafter be without a number or shall have
the wrong number affixed or inscribed thereon, or whenever any new building
shall be built or any new occupancy commenced in the City, which under the
provisions of this article requires a number, it shall be the duty of the owner
or occupant thereof to procure and affix or inscribe the proper number thereon
at his own expense.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§ 11-24 NOTIFICATION TO AFFIX NUMBER; FAILURE TO AFFIX NUMBER.
   Whenever the City Council shall direct any person to number or renumber any
building, occupancy or premises under the provisions of this article, the Chief
of Police shall notify the owner or occupant to that effect, in writing, and
should such owner or occupant refuse or neglect to do so for ten (10) days
after service of such notice, he shall be deemed to have violated this article,
and each ten (10) days such person shall refuse or neglect so to do after
notice of aforesaid, it shall be deemed a new violation thereof and he may be
prosecuted separately and the fines and penalties provided in this Code imposed
for each such violation.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§ 11-25 DEFACING OR REMOVING NUMBERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall injure, deface or remove the numbers of any portion thereof
on any building, occupancy or premises required by the provisions of this
article whether he be the owner or occupant of such building, occupancy or
premises, on which the same is placed.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-31-1931)
§§ 11-26 – 11-29 RESERVED.
§ 11-30 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §§
11-1,
11-2,
11-10 or
11-24 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3547, passed 6-9-2004)
ARTICLE IV. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS OF THE STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE
§ 11-31 PURPOSE.
   An ordinance to designate an enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibility of the City of Flint located in Genesee County, and to designate
regulated flood hazard areas under the provisions of the State Construction
Code Act, Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended.
(Ord. 3757, passed 7-13-2009)
Statutory reference:
   State Construction Code, see MCLA 125.1501 et seq.
§ 11-32 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with Section 8b(6) of Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the
Building Official of the City of Flint is hereby designated as the enforcing
agency to discharge the responsibility of the City of Flint under Act 230 of
the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, State of Michigan. The City of Flint
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of said Act
throughout the corporate limits of the community adopting this ordinance.
(Ord. 3757, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 11-33 BUILDING CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with Section 8b(6) of Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, Appendix
G of the Michigan Building Code shall be enforced by the enforcing agency
within the City of Flint.
(Ord. 3757, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 11-34 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
entitled “Genesee County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions)” dated September 25,
2009, and the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) panel numbers 26049d, 0178d,
0183d, 0184d, 0186d, 0187d, 0188d, 0189d, 0191d, 0192d, 0193d, 0194d, 0211d,
0282d, 0284d, 0301d, 0302d, 0303d, 0306d, and 0307d dated September 25, 2009,
are adopted by reference for the purposes of administration of the Michigan
Construction Code, and declared to be a part of § 1612.3 of the Michigan
Building Code, and to provide the content of the “flood hazards” section of
Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. 3757, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 11-35 REPEALS.
   All ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 3757, passed 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 12: BUSINESS AND OCCUPATIONS GENERALLY *
Section
Article I. Automatic Music Machines
   
12-1   Compliance
   
12-2   License required
   
12-3   Same — application
   
12-4   Same — term
   
12-5   Same — fee
   
12-6   Same — investigation; issuance
   
12-7   Use of devices carrying music to public streets prohibited
   
12-8   Sounds audible in public streets prohibited during certain hours
Article II. Building Contractors
   
12-9   “Building contractor” defined
   
12-10   Exemptions
   
12-11   License required
   
12-12   Same — application; investigation of applicant
   
12-13   Same — fees
   
12-14   Same — term; renewal
   
12-15   Same — revocation
   
12-16   Insurance
   
12-16.1   Bond required for licensed contractors; form
   
12-17   Use of another’s license, giving false information and the like
prohibited
Article III. Bump Shop
   
12-18   “Bump shop” defined
   
12-19   License required
   
12-20   Same — application
   
12-21   Same — fee; term
   
12-22   Same — investigation of applicant; issuance
   
12-23   Same — suspension and revocation
   
12-23.5   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
Article IV. Cigarette Vending Machines and Mechanical Amusement Devices
   
12-24   Definitions
   
12-25   License for operator and machines — required; identification of
machines
   
12-26   Exemption from requirement for operator’s license
   
12-27   Same — applications; notification of transfer of license
   
12-28   Same — fee
   
12-29   Same — investigation of applicant
   
12-30   Same — affidavit of applicant; insurance; term
   
12-31   Same — duties of City Clerk
   
12-32   Same — revocation
   
12-33   Identification numbers of machines and devices; affixing of license
   
12-34   Playing of mechanical amusement device by persons under 16 prohibited;
exception; posting of signs
   
12-35   Penalties
   
12-36   Use of mechanical amusement device which contains payoff device
prohibited
   
12-37   Destruction of machines used in violation
Article V. Coin-Operated Laundry and Dry Cleaning Facilities
   
12-38   “Public coin-operated laundry or dry cleaning operation” defined
   
12-39   License — required
   
12-40   Same — application
   
12-41   Same — fee; term; inspection and approval; maintenance
   
12-42   Loitering prohibited; presence of juveniles
Article VI. Cutting, Removing or Trimming Trees
   
12-43   License — required; application; issuance; display
   
12-44   Same — fees; term
   
12-45   Insurance
Article VII. Initial Merchants
   
12-46   “Initial merchant” defined
   
12-46.1   Transacting business on nonresidential private property
   
12-47   When person deemed engaged initially in sales
   
12-48   License required
   
12-48.1   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
   
12-49   Same — application
   
12-49.1   Definitions
   
12-49.2   Licensing — additional requirements
   
12-49.3   Extended hours permit
   
12-50   License required — referral for investigation; issuance
   
12-51   Same — fees
   
12-52   Licenses for branch stores
   
12-53   Provisions not to affect requirements as to bonds
Article VIII. Junk Dealers, Secondhand Dealers, Pawnbrokers and the Like
Division 1. Generally
   
12-53.1   Compliance; State law adopted
Division 2. Junk Dealers, Secondhand Dealers and the Like
   
12-54   Definitions
   
12-54.1   Sale of goods — license required
   
12-54.2   Same — on parking lots and the like
   
12-55   Secondhand or junk dealers
   
12-56   License required; application; investigation of applicant; issuance;
renewal
   
12-57   Same — fees; exemptions
   
12-58   Same — certain persons prohibited from being licensees; revocation
   
12-59   Inspection of vehicles and premises
   
12-60   Vehicle license tags
   
12-61   Consent of owners of neighboring property; location
   
12-62   Name, address, thumbprint and other information required from pawnors
and the like; provisions for transactions of aluminum siding
   
12-62.1   Operation of pawnbrokers on Sunday prohibited
   
12-62.2   Period of retention
   
12-62.3   Right of entry of police, Building Inspector or Fire Marshal
   
12-62.4   Sale or possession of items with serial numbers altered, removed and
the like
   
12-62.5   Police order to hold property
   
12-63   Purchase — sale prohibited during certain hours
   
12-64   Posting of business sign; records required to be kept
   
12-65   Articles purchased by dealer to be retained unaltered for specific
periods; exceptions; reports to police
   
12-66   Purchases from certain persons prohibited
   
12-67   Reserved
   
12-67.1   Operation and condition of premises
   
12-67.2   Conditions of premises generally
   
12-67.3   Storage of scrap tires
   
12-67.3.1   Definitions
   
12-67.3.2   Unauthorized storage of scrap tires in outdoor collection sites
prohibited
   
12-67.3.3   Same — exception
   
12-67.3.4   Same — permit requirement
   
12-67.3.5   Same — insurance requirement
   
12-67.3.6   Same — bond requirement
   
12-67.3.7   Same — stacking requirement
   
12-67.3.8   Same — distance from combustibles
   
12-67.3.9   Same — distance from buildings and property lines
   
12-67.3.10   Same — distance from fires or fire producing instruments
   
12-67.3.11   Same — distance from motorized equipment, spark arresting devices
requirement
   
12-67.3.12   Same — smoking prohibited; notice requirement
   
12-67.3.13   Same — fence requirement
   
12-67.3.14   Same — penalty for violation
   
12-68   Sale of bedding, clothing and the like
   
12-69   Objection of neighboring residential property owners
   
12-69.1   Violation and penalty
Article IX. Leasing Motorcycles and the Like
   
12-70   Definitions
   
12-71   License required
   
12-72   Same — application
   
12-73   Same — fee; term
   
12-74   Same — issuance
   
12-75   Same — suspension and revocation
   
12-76   Lessee and operator to be licensed by State; records
   
12-77   General restrictions on leasing
Article X. Nonfire Alarm Systems
   
12-78   Definitions
   
12-79   Permit required; permission required to connect systems to Police
Department
   
12-80   Installation of systems generally
   
12-81   False alarms; defective system
Article XI. Sale and Distribution of Christmas Trees
   
12-82   Compliance
   
12-83   On tax exempt property
   
12-84   License — application; exemption; fee
   
12-85   Same — issuance
   
12-86   Bond
   
12-87   Maintenance of premises
   
12-88   Erection of buildings, signs and the like
   
12-89   Installation of electrical devices and apparatus
   
12-90   Inspection of premises; effect of failure to comply
   
12-90.5   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
Article XII. Sale and Distribution of Coal and Coke
   
12-91   License required
   
12-92   Same — application; investigation of applicant; fee; issuance; term;
renewal
   
12-93   Same — revocation
   
12-94   Certificates
   
12-95   Marking of delivery vehicles with license number
   
12-96   Mixing and substitution of fuels prohibited; exception
   
12-97   Mislabeling
Article XIII. Use of Buildings, Stands and the Like for Certain Businesses
   
12-98   Applicability
   
12-99   Permit required
   
12-100   Minimum sizes; compliance with other regulations; sewer and water
connections
Article XIV. Wreckers and Wrecker and Towing Service
   
12-101   Wrecker and towing service
   
12-102   Definitions
   
12-103   License required; term, fee, display, transfer
   
12-104   License applications; granting of license
   
12-105   License revocation, suspension or denial
   
12-106   Safety standards
   
12-107   Insurance
   
12-108   Inspections
   
12-109   Illegal towing
   
12-110   Storage area
   
12-111   Special permits
   
12-112   Wrecker driver to clean streets when removing wrecked vehicles
   
12-113   Penalty
Article XV. Educational Museum/Theme Park
   
12-114   Definitions
   
12-115   License required
   
12-116   Same — term
   
12-117   Same — application
   
12-118   Annual report
   
12-119   Original license fee
   
12-120   Annual license fee
   
12-121   License fee credits
   
12-122   Cash flow agreement
   
12-123   Insurance
   
12-124   Revocation of license
Article XVI. Car Washes
   
12-125   License required
   
12-126   License application — form
   
12-127   Same — investigation
   
12-128   Issuance of license; fees; license period
   
12-129   Definition
   
12-130   Requirements of owner
   
12-131   Hours of operation
Article XVII. Clubs
   
12-132   License required
   
12-133   License application; form
   
12-134   Same — investigation
   
12-135   Issuance of license; fees; license period
   
12-136   Definitions
   
12-137   Requirements of owner
   
12-138   Hours of operation
Article XVIII. Filling Stations
Division 1. Generally
   
12-139   Permit to operate required
   
12-140   Same — application; revocation; nontransferable
   
12-141   Same — submission and approval of plans and specifications
   
12-142   Same — operating without declared public nuisance; abatement
   
12-143   Sales of motor fuels — license required
   
12-144   Same — fees; term; renewal; revocation; nontransferable
   
12-145   Compliance with Fire Code; tank installations
   
12-146   Compliance with zoning, building, and other regulations; correction of
unsafe or unsanitary conditions; authority of Fire Chief to close
Division 2. Safety Regulations
   
12-147   Accumulations of junk prohibited
   
12-148   Installation of open flame appliances
Article XIX: Hotels and Rooming Houses
   
12-149   Definitions
   
12-150   License required
   
12-151   Same — application; fee; term
   
12-152   Person to be on duty at place of registration at all times;
exceptions; notification of Fire Department in case of fire
   
12-153   Posting of notice advising as to provisions of chapter
Article XX. Open Parking Stations
   
12-154   “Open parking station” defined
   
12-155   License required
   
12-156   Same — application
   
12-157   Same — fees
   
12-158   Same — issuance; term; records
   
12-159   Same — revocation
   
12-160   Signs required
   
12-161   Day and night rates
   
12-162   Claim checks
   
12-163   Charging rates in excess of those stated in license application
   
12-164   Notification of claims for loss, theft and the like; owner’s
obligations
   
12-165   Liability
   
12-166   Refusing to accept cars prohibited
   
12-167   Sidewalks, curbs and driveways
   
12-168   Stations to be dust free
   
12-169   Subletting to vendors
   
12-170   Unauthorized use of parked vehicles
Article XXI. Solicitor’s, Canvasser’s and Peddler’s License
   
12-171   Definitions
   
12-172   License requirements
   
12-173   Application
   
12-174   Fees; exemptions
   
12-175   Issuance
   
12-176   Acceptance by licensee; conditions applying to license and licensee
   
12-177   Term
   
12-178   Suspension and revocation
   
12-179   Tags to be attached to vehicles
Article XXII. Charitable Solicitations and the Like
   
12-180   Permit; compliance
   
12-181   Same — application
   
12-182   Same — issuance; term
   
12-182.1   Same — religious organizations exempted from fee
   
12-183   Same — suspension and revocation
   
12-184   Reserved
   
12-185   Identification cards
   
12-185.1   Prohibited acts
Article XXIII. Sale of Ice Cream from Vehicles and the Like
   
12-186   License; definitions
   
12-187   Same — prerequisite for issuance
   
12-188   Same — limitation on number of licenses
   
12-189   Same — term
   
12-190   Same — suspension and revocation
   
12-191   Operation of vehicle by person under 14 prohibited
   
12-192   Vehicles not to be operated more than one hour after sundown;
exception
   
12-193   Operation in public park deemed public nuisance
   
12-194   Insurance
Article XXIV. Sidewalk Photographers
   
12-195   Purpose
   
12-196   Prohibited in certain areas
   
12-197   Exemptions from provisions
Article XXV. Freight Carriers
   
12-198   License required
   
12-199   Same — application; fee; issuance; display of license number on
vehicle
   
12-200   Same — term
   
12-201   Charging unreasonable rates
   
12-202   Certain acts prohibited
Article XXVI. Taxicabs, and Other For-Hire Vehicles
Division 1. In General
   
12-203   Definitions
Division 2. Taxicabs
   
12-204   Taxicab color code requirement
   
12-205   Taxicab markings required
   
12-206   Display of license
   
12-207   Reserved
   
12-208   Partition required in taxicabs
   
12-209   Taximeter
   
12-210   License required for hiring on fixed fee or contribution basis
   
12-211   License to operate — required
   
12-212   Same — determination of public convenience and necessity
   
12-213   Same — hearing
   
12-214   Same — application
   
12-215   Same — fee; license plates
   
12-216   Same — issuance
   
12-217   Same — grounds for refusal
   
12-218   Insurance
   
12-219   Taxicab rates
   
12-220   Motor vehicle for hire
   
12-221   Public driver’s license generally
   
12-222   Renewal of public driver’s license
   
12-223   Public driver’s badge
   
12-224   Expiration date of licenses
   
12-225   Suspension and revocation of license
   
12-226   Inspection of taxicabs
   
12-227   Daily operations required; abandonment of service
   
12-228   Taxi stands
   
12-229   Loading zones
   
12-230   Conduct of owners or operators generally
   
12-231   Penalty for violation of § 12-28
   
12-232   Payment in advance; refusal of passenger
   
12-233   Loitering in or near vehicle
   
12-234   Nonpayment of fare a misdemeanor
   
12-235   Public liability insurance requirements for buses
   
12-236   Consent of first passenger required to carry additional passengers
Division 3. Horse Drawn Carriages
   
12-237   Card frame for license and inspection card
   
12-238   Designated routes
   
12-239   Number parked at one stop
   
12-240   Time of operation
   
12-241   Hours of use for each horse
   
12-242   Care of horses
   
12-243   Marking of horse
   
12-244   Inspections
   
12-245   Repairs and alterations
   
12-246   Duties of drivers
   
12-247   Prohibition for drivers
   
12-248   Suspension of operations by Chief of Police
   
12-249   Rules and regulations generally
   
12-250   Expiration of licenses
   
12-251   Required
   
12-252   Ownership prerequisite to issuance
   
12-253   Inspection prerequisite to issuance
   
12-254   Insurance prerequisite to issuance
   
12-255   Limitation on number issued
   
12-256   License plate
   
12-257   Driver’s license
Article XXVII. Outdoor Pay Telephones
   
12-258   Outdoor pay telephones prohibited
   
12-259   Violation of § 12-258; penalty for violation
   
12-260   Registration
   
12-261   Revocation procedure
   
12-262   Placement of pay telephones in public right-of-way
Article XXVIII. Garage/Yard Sales
   
12-263   Definitions
   
12-264   Permits and fees
   
12-265   Licensing
   
12-266   Information to be filed
   
12-267   Signs
   
12-268   Persons and sale excepted
   
12-269   Penalty
   
12-270   Enforcement
   
12-271   Severability
Article XXIX. Fireworks
   
12-272   Fireworks; license for retail sales
Cross-reference:
   Applicability of State law as to transient merchants, see §
10-8
   Hawking or peddling goods in park, see §
33-10
   License fee for vehicles for hire, see §
26-1
   Motor vehicles and traffic generally, see
Ch. 28
   On-street parking, see §§
28-78 –
28-119
   Taxicab and bus zones, see §§
28-80 –
28-82
   Vehicles for hire at airport, see §
5-11
ARTICLE I. AUTOMATIC MUSIC MACHINES
§ 12-1 COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set up or operate within the City
limits of the City of Flint any automatic music machine at any public place or
places except in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938; Ord. 1715, passed 5-20-1963)
§ 12-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit such automatic music machine
to be set up, installed or operated in his place of business without first
having obtained a license therefor as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938; Ord. 1038, passed 9-4-1952)
§ 12-3 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Any person or persons desiring to obtain a license for the operation of an
automatic music machine shall first make application for such license or
licenses to the City Council of the City of Flint in writing, which application
shall be sworn to before the City Clerk or Deputy City Clerk and shall contain
the following information:
   (a)   Name and address of applicant;
   (b)   Number of machines to be operated;
   (c)   If the applicant is an individual or a partnership, the names and
addresses of all applicants and/or partners and a statement of any criminal
convictions or pending criminal prosecutions of or against any such person;
   (d)   If the applicant is a club, association or corporation, the following
data shall be given in addition to other requirements of this section:
      (1)   Type of organization;
      (2)   Names and addresses of the officers;
      (3)   The name and address of the person or persons to be in charge of or
manage the equipment for which licenses covered by this ordinance are required
and a statement of any criminal conviction or pending prosecution of or against
any such person or persons;
      (4)   If the applicant is a nonprofit organization, a detailed statement
of its purpose and disposition of fund shall be given.
      (5)   There shall be attached to the application sets of fingerprints in
duplicate of all individual applicants and partners thereof and all persons who
are managers or to be in charge of any equipment for which licenses covered by
this ordinance are required. If managers or persons in charge as set out above
are changed during the license year, the requirements of this ordinance shall
be met before such duties are assumed by the new parties involved.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938; Ord. 1038, passed 9-4-1952)
§ 12-4 SAME — TERM.
   All licenses created under this ordinance shall terminate on April 30 of
each and every year.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938)
§ 12-5 SAME — FEE.
   The applicant for a license shall deposit with the City Clerk at the time of
filing an application, an annual license fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938; Ord. 1091, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 12-6 SAME — INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   Upon filing the application hereinabove provided, the same shall be referred
to the Chief of Police and if, after investigation by said Chief of Police, the
City Council shall determine that said applicant is a fit, proper and suitable
person to operate said equipment and said applicant has complied with all of
the requirements of this ordinance, the City Council shall authorize the City
Clerk to issue said applicant a license of the type for which application has
been made, which license shall expire on April 30, subsequent thereto, and in
case the application of said applicant is denied, then the City Clerk shall
return to said applicant all license fees which have been paid by the applicant
as hereinabove provided.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938; Ord. 1038, passed 9-4-1952)
§ 12-7 USE OF DEVICES CARRYING MUSIC TO PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No outside speaker or other device shall be attached to any automatic music
machine which is designed to or does carry sound of music emanating from said
machine to a public street.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938)
Cross-reference:
   Sound devices, see §§
31-70—
31-79
§ 12-8 SOUNDS AUDIBLE IN PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   Between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., it shall be unlawful for any
person in charge of any such music machine to operate or to permit such music
machine to be operated in such a manner that the sound created, emitted or
transmitted by such machine shall be audible to persons upon any public street
or highway in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938)
ARTICLE II. BUILDING CONTRACTORS
§ 12-9 “BUILDING CONTRACTOR” DEFINED.
   (a)   BUILDING CONTRACTOR. Every person, firm, partnership, corporation,
association or other organization or any combination thereof, who is engaged in
the business of accepting orders or contracts on a cost plus, fixed fee, stated
sum, percentage or any combination thereof, or other compensation other than
wages for doing work on or in any building or structure requiring the use of
stone, brick, mortar, concrete, wood, structural steel or iron, sheet iron,
metallic piping, tin, lead, roofing, insulation or any other building material,
or for the execution of any building operations on public or private property
using building materials or any combination thereof, or for excavating
foundations or for the construction of retaining walls, docks, drive piling or
the construction in general of structures of any and all descriptions, or for
remodeling, repairing or razing any structure, or who shall supervise all or
any part of the construction of any of the buildings or structures above
described, shall be deemed to be a “building contractor” within the meaning of
this ordinance.
   (b)   PERSONS shall mean individual, firm, partnership, association,
syndicate, corporation or other form of business organization.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942)
Cross-reference:
   Buildings, see
Ch. 11
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of residential builders and the like, see MCLA 338.1501 et seq.
§ 12-10 EXEMPTIONS.
   This ordinance shall not apply:
   (a)   To an authorized representative or representatives of the United
States of America, the State of Michigan, the County of Genesee or the City of
Flint, Michigan; or
   (b)   Sole owners of property, building structures or persons making repairs
thereon for their own use.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942)
§ 12-11 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of building contractor in the City of
Flint without first obtaining a building contractor’s license as provided
herein.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942)
§ 12-12 SAME — APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   Hereinafter, anyone desiring to be licensed as a building contractor in the
City of Flint shall make application to the Director of Buildings and
Inspections by filling in the printed application forms which may be obtained
from the City Clerk. The City Clerk upon receipt of any application shall
thereupon refer the application to the Director of Buildings and Inspections
for the consideration of the Director of Buildings and Inspections.
   The Director of Buildings and Inspections shall undertake such investigation
of the applicant as is deemed desirable by the Director of Buildings and
Inspections, and shall use all reasonable speed in making a recommendation to
the City Council as to whether or not a license applied for should be granted
and accompany the recommendation with such information as may be deemed by the
Director of Buildings and Inspections to be pertinent. The application shall
also be referred to the division of police for investigation concerning the
character and criminal record, if any, of the applicant. After the completion
of the investigation by the division of police, and upon receipt of the
recommendation of the Director of Buildings and Inspections, the application
shall be presented to the City Council of the City of Flint. No license shall
be issued until the issuance of the same has been duly authorized by
appropriate action of the City Council.
   The application shall require the submission of information relative to the
name, business and residence address, residence and occupation for the previous
five (5) years, training in the field of building construction, former
employers, credit record, criminal record, unpaid judgments and shall contain
such other information as may be deemed pertinent and necessary. The
application when filed shall become a public record.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1022, passed 4-24-1952)
§ 12-13 SAME — FEES.
   Annual license fees for licenses covered by this ordinance shall be as
specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code of ordinances.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1073, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 12-14 SAME — TERM; RENEWAL.
   All licenses shall expire on April 30 of each year. Any of the licenses
herein provided for may be renewed merely upon payment of the required annual
license fee to the City Clerk by any holder of a license; provided, however,
that payment of the renewal fee is paid at least ten (10) days after the
expiration of the old licenses.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942)
§ 12-15 SAME — REVOCATION.
   The City Council may, without notice, revoke the license of any person
convicted of violating the Flint City Building Code, the Michigan Housing Law
or the Building Trust Fund Act of the State of Michigan. The City Council may
also, for good and sufficient cause shown and after public hearing revoke
licenses.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1022, passed 4-24-1952)
§ 12-16 INSURANCE.
   Every building contractor granted a license under the terms of this article
shall be required to maintain at all times workers’ compensation insurance, and
also insurance underwritten by a company authorized to do business in the State
against liability to the public in the amount of not less than $100,000.00 for
one person or $300,000.00 for one accident, and $100,000.00 against liability
arising out of property damage. Such policies shall contain therein or have
attached thereto by rider, a provision that the insurer will give notice to the
City at least ten days prior to the cancellation of the policies, in event that
the insurer should elect to cancel the same. The policies required, or a
certificate or certificates executed by the insurer certifying to the existence
of the insurance shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to the issuance of
any license or renewal thereof. Such insurance shall be maintained continuously
during the license year. Failure to maintain insurance as above provided shall
be grounds for revocation of the license issued under this article.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1872, passed 10-18-1965; Ord. 2961, passed 6-
24-1985)
§ 12-16.1 BOND REQUIRED FOR LICENSED CONTRACTORS; FORM.
   Any building contractor licensed pursuant to this chapter shall be required
to post a bond in accordance with the provisions herein. The bond shall be in
the amount of five thousand ($5,000.00) dollars for the use and benefit of the
City of Flint for correcting violations of the Flint City Code. The bond shall
contain the conditions that the principal there shall faithfully comply with
the provisions of the chapter, pay or cause to be paid all costs for all labor
and materials required to correct all violations cited by the City of Flint.
The bond shall remain in full force and effect for the full period of the
license. The bond shall be in the form contained herein or as approved by the
Legal Department of the City of Flint. Bond form shall be in substantially the
following form:
   BOND NO.            
   BUILDING CONTRACTOR’S BOND
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS
THAT WE,
                                                                                                                                 ,
OF
                                                                                                                                                         ,
STATE OF                                                         , HEREINAFTER
CALLED THE PRINCIPAL,
AND
                                                                                                                                                 
CORPORATION ORGANIZED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF
                                          , WITH ITS HOME OFFICE IN THE CITY OF
                                                                                     ,
IN SAID STATE DULY AUTHORIZED TO TRANSACT SURETY BUSINESS IN THE STATE OF
MICHIGAN, A SURETY, ARE HELD AND FIRMLY BOUND UNTO THE CITY OF FLINT, A
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN, AS OBLIGEE, IN THE FULL PENAL
SUM OF FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS, LAWFUL MONEY OF THE UNITED STATES FOR PAYMENT OF
WHICH, WELL AND TRULY TO BE MADE, WE BIND OURSELVES, OUR HEIRS, EXECUTORS,
ADMINISTRATORS, SUCCESSORS, AND ASSIGNS, JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY, FIRMLY BY THESE
PRESENTS.
SIGNED, SEALED AND DATED THIS                                 DAY OF
                                    , 20_____.
   WHEREAS, THE ABOVE BOUNDEN PRINCIPAL HAS OR IS ABOUT TO OBTAIN FROM THE SAID
OBLIGEE A LICENSE FOR BUILDING CONTRACTOR, AND
   WHEREAS, THE PRINCIPAL IS REQUIRED BY LAW TO FILE WITH THE CITY OF FLINT A
BOND CONDITIONED AS HEREINAFTER SET FORTH.
   NOW, THEREFORE, THE CONDITION OF THIS OBLIGATION IS SUCH, THAT IF THE ABOVE
BOUNDED PRINCIPAL SHALL ON AND AFTER THE                        DAY OF
                                 , 20         , INDEMNIFY SAID OBLIGEE AGAINST
ALL COSTS, EXPENSES, LOSS OR DAMAGE TO IT CAUSED BY PRINCIPAL’S NONCOMPLIANCE
WITH OR BREACH OF ANY LAWS, STATUTES, ORDINANCE, RULES OR REGULATIONS
PERTAINING TO SUCH LICENSEE, THEN THE ABOVE OBLIGATION SHALL BE VOID, OTHERWISE
TO BE AND REMAIN IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT.
   PROVIDED, THE LIABILITY OF THE SURETY UPON THIS BOND SHALL BE AND REMAIN IN
FULL FORCE AND EFFECT FOR THE FULL PERIOD OF THE LICENSE OR PERMIT ISSUED TO
THE PRINCIPAL ABOVE NAMED BUT NOT BEYOND.
   PROVIDED, THAT THIS BOND MAY BE CONTINUED FROM YEAR TO YEAR BY CONTINUATION
CERTIFICATE EXECUTED BY THE SURETY HEREON, AND
   PROVIDED FURTHER, REGARDLESS OF THE NUMBER OF YEARS THIS BOND SHALL CONTINUE
OR BE CONTINUED IN FORCE AND THE NUMBER OF PREMIUMS THAT SHALL BE PAYABLE OR
PAID, THE SURETY SHALL NOT BE LIABLE HEREUNDER FOR A LARGER AMOUNT IN THE
AGGREGATE, THAN THE AMOUNT OF THIS BOND.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE SET THEIR HANDS AND SEALS THE
DAY AND YEAR FIRST ABOVE WRITTEN.
                                                                                   
                  PRINCIPAL
BY:
                                                                             
                   SURETY
                                                                                    
BY:
                                                                             
               ATTORNEY-IN-FACT
   (POWER OF ATTORNEY, WITH SEAL THEREON, MUST BE ATTACHED)
(Ord. 2676, passed 10-23-1978)
§ 12-17 USE OF ANOTHER’S LICENSE, GIVING FALSE INFORMATION AND THE LIKE
PROHIBITED.
   Any person or persons, the members of any firm, co-partnership, corporation,
association or other organization or any combination thereof, presenting or
attempting to file or use the license of another, or who shall give false or
forged evidence of any kind to the Director of Buildings and Inspections, or to
any member thereof in obtaining or maintaining a license, or shall falsely
impersonate another or who shall use an expired or revoked license, or shall
violate any one or more of the provisions of any section of this ordinance,
shall upon conviction be punished by a fine not exceeding three hundred dollars
($300.00) or by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days in the City or
County Jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
Court for each offense.
(Ord. 483, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1212, passed 8-5-1954)
ARTICLE III. BUMP SHOP
§ 12-18 “BUMP SHOP” DEFINED.
   A “bump shop” is defined for the purpose of this ordinance as:
   BUMP SHOP. Any public garage, wherein body, fender, frame, painting work, or
any mechanical service is done upon motor vehicles within an enclosed building.
(Ord. 1989, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 3806, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 12-19 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bump shop as hereinafter
defined, without first obtaining a license therefor from the Flint City
Council.
(Ord. 1989, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 12-20 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Application for a bump shop license shall be made in writing on forms
furnished by the City Clerk, and shall contain such information as the City
Clerk may require.
(Ord. 1989, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 12-21 SAME — FEE; TERM.
   The licensee shall pay a yearly fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code upon approval of the application by the City Council.
All licenses issued under this ordinance, unless sooner revoked, shall be for a
period of one year and shall expire on April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 1989, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 12-22 SAME — INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE.
   The application so received by the City Clerk shall be referred to the City
Administrator and by him to the appropriate department such as Police, Fire,
Health and Building Inspections for the purpose of conducting an investigation
to determine whether the applicant’s bump shop complies with the ordinances of
the City of Flint. Upon completion of said investigation, the City
Administrator shall report his findings and recommendations to the City
Council. A license granted by said City Council shall be issued by the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 1989, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 12-23 SAME — SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The City Administrator shall have the authority to suspend all licenses
issued hereunder, for a period not to exceed 14 days, upon finding that a
licensee has failed to comply with the applicable ordinances of the City of
Flint. The City Council shall have the authority to revoke all licenses upon
receipt of a recommendation from the City Administrator. Prior to revocation,
the licensee shall have the opportunity to appear at a public hearing before
the City Council. Notice of the hearing before the City Council shall be
delivered personally or by registered mail to the licensee and at least three
days before the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 1989, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 12-23.5 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §
12-19 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3548, passed 6-9-2004)
ARTICLE IV. CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINES AND MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 12-24 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE. A mechanical device which, upon the insertion of
a coin or slug, returns to the payer thereof the value of this money in
cigarettes.
   GOOD MORAL CHARACTER. Shall be construed to mean the propensity on the part
of the person to serve the public in the licensed area in a fair, honest and
open manner.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine which, upon the insertion of a coin
or slug, operated or which may be operated for the use as a game or contest of
any description, or which may be used for any such game or contest, and which
contains no automatic payoff device for the return of slugs, money, coins,
checks, tokens, or merchandise which provides for no such payoff by any other
manner or means.
   OPERATOR. Any person who contracts or permits any mechanical amusement
device or cigarette vending machine to be installed, used and operated in other
than his own place of business.
   OWNER. Any person who actually owns and has title to any such mechanical
amusement device or cigarette vending machine who receives all the profit from
the operation of such device or machines used and operated in his own place of
business.
   PENNY ARCADE. Any establishment containing four (4) or more mechanical
amusement devices must be licensed as a penny arcade; any establishment
containing less than four (4) such machines need not be so licensed, and is
designated as an “accessory amusement use.” In determining the number of
machines toward requirement of an arcade license, pool tables shall not be
counted.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 1671, passed 5-7-1962; Ord. 2831, passed 4-
26-1982; Ord. 2936, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 12-25 LICENSE FOR OPERATOR AND MACHINES — REQUIRED; IDENTIFICATION OF
MACHINES.
   No person shall install or permit the use of any mechanical amusement device
or cigarette vending machine without first obtaining an operator’s license as
provided in this article and mechanical amusement device license(s) for the
number of mechanical amusement devices to be so installed or used.
   No person shall operate a penny arcade without first obtaining a license as
provided in this article.
   Each mechanical amusement device installed or used in the City of Flint
shall be clearly marked with the name, address and telephone number of the
owner of such mechanical amusement device.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2831, passed 4-26-1982)
§ 12-26 EXEMPTION FROM REQUIREMENT FOR OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   The owner who actually owns and operates any mechanical amusement or
cigarette vending machine device in his own place of business shall not be
required to take out an operator’s license, but shall be required to take out a
machine license for each amusement or cigarette vending machine device used.
However, such any owner who owns and operates any mechanical amusement or
cigarette vending machine device in his own place of business, shall file an
affidavit with the City Clerk setting forth that he is the actual, bona fide
owner of the amusement or cigarette vending machine device and receives all the
benefits from the operation thereof and that no other person has any actual or
beneficial interest therein, either directly or indirectly.
   In the case of any mechanical amusement device the owner shall have no right
to place mechanical amusement devices in his own place of business during the
period of suspension of such right as set forth in §§
12-32 and
12-35 hereof.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2831, passed 4-26-1982)
§ 12-27 SAME — APPLICATIONS; NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Any person desiring to obtain a license as an operator or to obtain licenses
for mechanical amusement devices or to obtain a license to operate a penny
arcade or cigarette vending machines shall first make application for such
license to the City Council, in writing, which application shall be sworn to
before the City Clerk or Deputy City Clerk and shall contain the following
information:
   (a)   Name and address of applicant.
   (b)   The number of mechanical amusement devices or cigarette vending
machines intended to be operated.
   (c)   If the applicant is an individual or a partnership, the names and
addresses of all applicants and partners and a statement of any criminal
convictions or pending criminal prosecutions of or against any such person.
   (d)   If the applicant is a club, association or corporation, the following
data shall be given in addition to other requirements of this section.
      (1)   Type of organization.
      (2)   Names and address of the officers.
      (3)   The name and address of the person to be in charge of or manage the
equipment for which the licenses covered by this article are required and a
statement of any criminal conviction or pending prosecution of or against any
such person.
      (4)   If the applicant is a nonprofit corporation, a detailed statement
of its purpose and disposition of funds shall be given.
   (e)   There shall be attached to the application, sets of fingerprints in
duplicate of all individual applicants and partners thereof and all persons who
are managers or to be in charge of any equipment for which licenses covered by
this article are required. If managers or persons in charge are set out above
are changed during the license year, the requirements of this article shall be
met before such duties are assumed by the new parties involved.
   (f)   The address of the location of the license(s). If said licenses are to
be transferred from one location to another, in the City of Flint, the holder
of the license shall notify the City Clerk, on forms provided by the City
Clerk, of the old and new location of such license(s) and the approximate date
of the transfer. In any event, notification shall be within forty-eight (48)
hours after the transfer of said license(s). In the event that the City Clerk
shall notify the holder of the license(s) that the proposed new location is on
the “suspended” list, as indicated in §
12-35 hereof, the licensee shall remove the machine within forty-eight (48)
hours.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 1039, passed 9-4-1952; Ord. 2831, passed 4-
26-1982)
§ 12-28 SAME — FEE.
   The applicant for an operator’s license shall deposit with the City Clerk at
the time of filing an application, the license fee prescribed in
Chapter 26 of this Code.
   No license fee shall be charged for machines operated solely for the direct
benefit of a charitable, benevolent, religious or eleemosynary organization.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 1838, passed 5-10-1965)
§ 12-29 SAME — INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   Upon filing the application as provided in this article, the same shall be
referred to the Chief of Police and if, after investigation by the Chief of
Police and the City Council’s determining that the applicant is of good moral
character, and has not been convicted of any recent felony and/or any
misdemeanor offense related to the person’s likelihood to serve the public in a
fair, honest and open manner; and, that no such person is an officer, partner
or owner of a company who may be applying, and if it appears that the applicant
has complied with zoning requirements for the proposed location and
requirements of this article, the City Council shall direct the City Clerk to
issue a license of the type for which application was made.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 1039, passed 9-4-1952; Ord. 2831, passed 4-
26-1982; Ord. 2936, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 12-30 SAME — AFFIDAVIT OF APPLICANT; INSURANCE; TERM.
   Every applicant for an operator’s license shall file an affidavit with the
City Clerk prior to receiving such license, stating the number of machines
intended to be operated, and stating further that if he desires to operate
during the license year additional machines not covered by the license or
licenses already applied for, he will apply for a license or licenses to cover
the operation of the additional machines in the manner herein set-forth and pay
the fee required to operate such additional machines; and, if the City Clerk
issues a license to the applicant, he shall, upon the payment of the required
fee, issue a license containing the name and address of the licensee, the
number of machines intended to be operated and the serial numbers of the
licenses issued to the licensee. The applicant shall at the same time apply for
an individual license for each machine or device. It shall be the duty of the
licensee to affix one license to each machine set in operation by the licensee.
If the licensee desires to operate additional machines during the license year,
the licensee shall apply for a license to cover the operation of the additional
machines, in the manner above set forth and pay the fee required to operate any
such additional machines and shall affix one license to each such additional
machine set in operation by the licensee.
   All licenses shall expire on April 30 of each year, unless sooner revoked by
the City Council.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945)
§ 12-31 SAME — DUTIES OF CITY CLERK.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to maintain records related to this
article, including records of licenses granted, transfers of license(s) from
one location to another, and records of enforcement action taken under this
article. The City Clerk shall supply the appropriate forms to provide a
convenient system of notification of a transfer of a license to a different
location, and shall maintain a list of any suspensions made pursuant to this
article.
   The City Clerk or his employee(s) shall be authorized to issue appearance
tickets for violation of this article, although such authorization shall not
diminish the authority of other law enforcement personnel to issue same.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2831, passed 4-26-1982)
§ 12-32 SAME — REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this article may be suspended or
revoked by the City Council at any time that the City Council may deem or
determine that the holder of the license is not in compliance with §
12-29 hereof, or has been convicted of any violation of this article.
   Revocation shall be accomplished by a hearing held before the City Council,
or a hearing panel of said Council in accordance with the rules for hearings
previously adopted by the City Council.
   In addition, where the holder of a license granted under this article is
also the licensed owner or operator of an alcoholic liquor establishment, and
in connection with the operation of such establishment, said licensee violates
or allows another person to violate, any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Liquor Control Commission, any law of the State of Michigan, or any ordinance
of the City of Flint, the City Council may, after notice and hearing as
described above, suspend or revoke any license granted under the provisions of
this article.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 1671, passed 5-7-1962; Ord. 2831, passed 4-
26-1982; Ord. 2936, passed 1-28-1985)
§ 12-33 IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS OF MACHINES AND DEVICES; AFFIXING OF LICENSE.
   Every mechanical amusement device or cigarette vending machine so licensed
shall bear suitable identification marks and numbers which shall be written by
the City Clerk upon the license issued for such mechanical amusement device or
cigarette vending machine and such license shall be permanently affixed to such
device or machine so as to be visible at all times.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945)
§ 12-34 PLAYING OF MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE BY PERSONS UNDER 16 PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION; POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (a)   No minor child under the age of sixteen years, unless accompanied by a
parent or guardian, shall be permitted to play any mechanical amusement device;
provided, that such minor child shall not be prohibited from operating and
playing any pool table, equipped as a mechanical amusement device, if suitable
proof of age, such as Michigan driver’s license or nondriver’s identification
shall be presented upon demand.
   (b)   Any person owning, controlling or having general supervision of any
premises in which a mechanical amusement device is located shall not permit any
minor child under the age of sixteen years to play such machines unless such
child shall be accompanied by parent or legal guardian.
   (c)   At any place within the City of Flint where a mechanical amusement
device is located there shall be conspicuously posted a sign no smaller than
one square foot in area, containing the warning: “It is unlawful for persons
under sixteen years of age to play these machines unless accompanied by a
parent or legal guardian,” such sign shall be located within ten (10) feet of
any mechanical amusement device, unless it can be demonstrated impractical to
do so, at which point the sign(s) may be posted in some other conspicuous
place. If more than five (5) devices are located in any building an additional
sign containing the language set forth above shall be required to be posted in
close proximity to such additional machines. Additional signs shall be required
to be posted as the number of mechanical amusement devices increases in the
same ratio of one to five. Failure to post signs as set forth above shall be a
violation of this article.
   (d)   Any person convicted of a violation of this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. Such conviction may result in the revocation of a license as
indicated in §§
12-32 and
12-35 hereof.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 1839, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 2249, passed 3-
15-1971; Ord. 2831, passed 4-26-1982)
§ 12-35 PENALTIES.
   The following penalties shall apply to any individual, partnership, club,
association, company or corporation found to be in violation of the
requirements set forth in this article:
   (a)   A finding of a violation of this article in the District Court may
result in a fine not to exceed five hundred ($500.00) dollars and/or other
penalty to be determined by the court.
   (b)   Upon a first determination of, or a single instance of, a violation or
conviction as set forth in §
12-32 hereof, the City Council may choose to suspend the license granted under
the provisions of this article for a period of time ranging from six (6) months
to one (1) year.
   (c)   Upon a second determination of a violation or conviction, or upon a
first determination of multiple violations or convictions as set forth in §
12-32 hereof, the City Council may choose to suspend the license granted under
the provisions of this article for a period of time ranging from six (6) months
to two (2) years, or the Council may choose to revoke the license.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2831, passed 4-26-1982; Ord. 2936, passed 1-
28-1985)
§ 12-36 USE OF MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE WHICH CONTAINS PAYOFF DEVICE
PROHIBITED.
   No operator shall install or permit the use of a mechanical amusement device
which contains an automatic payoff device for the return of slugs, money,
coins, checks, tokens, or merchandise which provides for such payoff by any
other manner.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 1671, passed 5-7-1962; Ord. 2831, passed 4-
26-1982)
§ 12-37 DESTRUCTION OF MACHINES USED IN VIOLATION.
   Any machine, apparatus, contrivance or device which shall have been made use
of in violation of the terms of this ordinance may be seized and destroyed in
compliance with the terms and provisions in the statutes of this State of
Michigan relating to gaming devices.
(Ord. 599, passed 10-8-1945)
ARTICLE V. COIN-OPERATED LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING FACILITIES
§ 12-38 “PUBLIC COIN-OPERATED LAUNDRY OR DRY CLEANING OPERATION” DEFINED.
   PUBLIC COIN-OPERATED LAUNDRY or DRY CLEANING OPERATION. A public
establishment or place of business conducted for the purpose of washing,
cleaning, drying and laundering clothes and other washable materials and dry
cleaning clothing and other materials in a customer-operated laundry and
cleaning equipment.
(Ord. 1741, passed 9-30-1963)
§ 12-39 LICENSE — REQUIRED.
   No person, co-partnership, firm or corporation shall operate a public coin-
operated facility as defined herein within the corporate limits of the City of
Flint without first having obtained a license therefor from the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1741, passed 9-30-1963)
§ 12-40 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Any person, co-partnership, firm or corporation desiring to operate a public
coin-operated facility as defined herein within the City of Flint, shall make
application in writing for permission to do so, to the City Clerk of said City
upon blanks to be provided by the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall require such
applicant to state in writing upon such blanks:
   (a)   The applicant’s full name, residence, post office address, and whether
such applicant is an individual, copartnership, firm or corporation and if such
applicant shall be a copartnership, the names of the partners together with
their addresses.
   (b)   The location or locations of applicant’s place or places of business
and a statement as to the nature of the operation, i.e., whether it is coin-
operated laundry machines or coin-operated dry cleaning machines, or both.
   (c)   An agreement that the applicant will permit the Director of Public
Health, the Fire Department and the Building Inspector to inspect the
establishment or establishments and everything in connection therewith at any
time desired.
(Ord. 1741, passed 9-30-1963)
§ 12-41 SAME — FEE; TERM; INSPECTION AND APPROVAL; MAINTENANCE.
   The license fee shall be as prescribed in
Chapter 26 of this Code. All licenses issued by the City Clerk under this
ordinance, unless sooner revoked, shall expire on April 30 of each year. No
license shall be issued until the location of such business and the premises
have been approved by the Director of Public Health, Fire Department and the
Building Inspections Department. Each establishment shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 1741, passed 9-30-1963)
§ 12-42 LOITERING PROHIBITED; PRESENCE OF JUVENILES.
   Loitering in the facility as herein defined shall not be permitted.
Juveniles must be accompanied by their parents or must be in the establishment
for the purpose of using laundry and/or dry cleaning facilities.
(Ord. 1741, passed 9-30-1963)
ARTICLE VI. CUTTING, REMOVING OR TRIMMING TREES
§ 12-43 LICENSE — REQUIRED; APPLICATION; ISSUANCE; DISPLAY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of cutting,
removing or trimming trees on private property within the City of Flint without
obtaining a license as herein provided. Any person, firm or corporation making
application for the license shall furnish to the City Clerk, on a form to be
prescribed by him, information concerning the name and organization of the
applicant, a description of the equipment and procedures employed and the
nature of operations conducted. Upon receipt of such information, and the
certificates of insurance required in this article, the City Clerk shall issue
a license to such applicant and such license shall be shown to any person who
shall do business with the licensee and who shall request same. The issuance of
a license hereunder shall not obviate the necessity of obtaining such other
licenses and permits as shall be required by the ordinances of the City of
Flint.
(Ord. 2026, passed 1-22-1968)
Cross-reference:
   Trees and Shrubs, see
Ch. 45
§ 12-44 SAME — FEES; TERM.
   Upon receipt of the application, the City Clerk shall issue a license upon
the payment of a fee prescribed in
Chapter 26 of this Code. All such licenses shall be for a period of one year
and shall expire on April 30 next following the date of issuance, and there
shall be no rebate for any lesser time.
(Ord. 2026, passed 1-22-1968)
§ 12-45 INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued unless and until the applicant shall furnish a
certificate of insurance, cancelable only upon thirty (30) days written notice
to the City Clerk of the City of Flint, in accordance with the following. Said
policy of insurance shall indemnify the applicant in the sum of at least
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for property damage, one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for injury or death to one person and three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for injury or death to more than one
person in any one accident. In the event the applicant is covered by the
Workers’ Compensation Law of the State of Michigan, said applicant shall
furnish evidence of insurance in accordance with statutory requirements. Such
policy of insurance shall indemnify the applicant for any and all liability to
persons with whom he is transacting business and their property, in the above
amounts, in addition to the public liability above specified. The certificate
of insurance shall be approved as to form and content by the Chief Legal
Officer. Upon cancellation or expiration of the required insurance, the City
Clerk shall notify the licensee in writing and said licensee shall forthwith
cease and desist from engaging in the business aforedescribed business.
(Ord. 2026, passed 1-22-1968)
ARTICLE VII. INITIAL MERCHANTS
§ 12-46 “INITIAL MERCHANT” DEFINED.
   INITIAL MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation engaging initially in the
sales of goods, wares or merchandise and who, for the purpose of conducting the
business, occupies either in whole or in part, a room, building, structure or
vacant property for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and
merchandise. The provisions of this ordinance shall not apply to commercial
travelers making sales to dealers or selling agents in the usual course of
business for resale nor to merchants having regularly established places of
business within the City of Flint for incidental or temporary sales or
deliveries from trucks or railroad cars; nor to any sales of goods, wares or
merchandise during the continuance of any annual fair; nor to any sales by
societies acting for charitable or religious purposes.
(Ord. 1876, passed 11-18-1965)
§ 12-46.1 TRANSACTING BUSINESS ON NONRESIDENTIAL PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any private property owner of nonresidential
private property in the City of Flint to authorize a peddler or solicitor,
whether by lease or otherwise, to transact or attempt to transact business on
such private property in the City of Flint unless the private property owner
first obtains a copy of the current license required by this article and issued
to the peddler or solicitor. The private property owner shall be required to
produce, upon demand of the authorized agents of the City of Flint, a copy of
the license.
(Ord. 3187, passed 11-11-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants, see §§
10-8;
12-46; and
12-171—
12-179
§ 12-47 WHEN PERSON DEEMED ENGAGED INITIALLY IN SALES.
   Any person, firm or corporation shall be considered as engaging initially in
sale of goods, wares or merchandise until December 31 of the year in which the
license is issued.
(Ord. 1876, passed 11-18-1965)
§ 12-48 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every merchant, before opening and/or operating a mercantile establishment
in the City of Flint, or before advertising or exposing his goods, wares or
merchandise for sale, shall procure from the City Clerk an Initial Merchants
License.
(Ord. 1876, passed 11-18-1965)
§ 12-48.1 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §
12-48 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3549, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 12-49 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Application for an Initial Merchants License shall be made in writing on
forms furnished by the City Clerk, and, shall contain the following statements
under oath. Any false statements of false affirmations made in connection with
an application for Initial Merchants License shall be cause for revocation of
the license.
   (a)   Full name, age, permanent residence, and local address if other than
the foregoing, of the applicant;
   (b)   The name of the firm or corporation represented, if any, together with
the address of such central or district office of such firm or corporation.
   (c)   The address or location of the place within the City at which the
applicant proposes to engage in business.
   (d)   A general description of the goods, wares or merchandise to be sold or
offered for sale.
   (e)   A photograph of the applicant taken within sixty days immediately
prior to the date of filing the application, which picture shall be two inches
by two inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
identifiable manner.
   (f)   The fingerprints of the applicant.
   (g)   A statement of any convictions of the applicant of any felony or
misdemeanor, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor, excepting minor traffic offenses.
(Ord. 1876, passed 11-18-1965)
§ 12-49.1 DEFINITIONS.
   PREMISES. Includes the licensee’s building any adjoining areas open to the
public or used by the public as access to the establishment.
   REASONABLE BASIS FOR COMPLAINT. Determined upon review by the City Clerk -
Licensing Division of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 3359, passed 11-24-1997)
§ 12-49.2 LICENSING — ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Where an Initial Merchants License has been issued to a business
establishment, and the establishment is the subject of ten or more verified
police complaints which are found to have a reasonable basis for said complaint
as determined by the Chief of Police or designee, Flint Police Department, the
establishment shall be required, to provide/hire licensed uniformed security
guards to patrol the premises during hours of operation as determined by the
Chief of Police, based upon the time, nature, frequency and seriousness of the
complaints received. After a determination by the Chief of Police, Flint Police
Department, that ten or more police complaints have been filed which have a
reasonable basis, the Police shall notify the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall
notify the licensee of the determination that they will be required to provide
licensed uniformed security guards as specified by the criteria established by
the Chief of Police, Flint Police Department.
   Within ten days of the mailing of the notice to licensee, an appeal may be
made to City Council for reconsideration. A hearing on the appeal shall be
heard at the next Council meeting following receipt of the appeal. Within seven
(7) days of the hearing, the City Council shall render a written decision
stating forth the reasons for the decision. The licensee shall be required to
maintain the security guards for a period of three months from the day the
licensed uniformed security guard is first posted unless otherwise notified by
the City Clerk. Upon notification by the Clerk then until such time as the
verified police complaints total less than ten (10) within a 30-day period,
calculated at regular intervals, from the date of the first posting of the
licensed uniformed security guard. The need to continue or discontinue the
provision of said licensed uniformed security guard shall be determined by the
Chief of Police, Flint Police Department. Each determination for continuance
may be appealed by the licensee by filing written notice with the City Council,
within ten days of the date of mailing of the notice.
   Failure to comply with this section shall result in a revocation of the
Initial Merchants License and the issuance of a “cease and desist doing
business order.” Appeal the decision to invoke any and all remedies provided
for by this section may be appealed to the City Council by the licensee within
ten days of the date of mailing of the notice of said decision.
(Ord. 3359, passed 11-24-1997; Ord. 3375, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 12-49.3 EXTENDED HOURS PERMIT.
   (a)   Where a liquor license is issued to a business establishment, and the
establishment requests an extended hours permit for operation between the hours
2:30 a.m. to 4:30 a.m. to engage in monologues, dialogues, motion pictures,
still slides, closed circuit television, contests, dancing or other
performances for public viewing on the licensed premises, if holding a permit
for the above-mentioned activities, the applicant shall meet the requirements
set forth in §
12-49.3.
   (b)   Where a licensee not holding an entertainment, dance, or combination
dance- entertainment permit, and the licensee requests an extended hours permit
for operation between the hours of 2:30 a.m. to 4:30 a.m. to engage in the
performance or playing of an orchestra, piano or other types of musical
instruments, or singing, the applicant shall meet the requirements set forth in
§
12-49.3.
   (c)   The requirements set forth shall be met and approved by the Chief of
Police of the Flint Police Department or his or her designee, the City Council
and the Michigan Liquor Control Commission.
   (d)   The licensee shall:
      (1)   Have had no verified police complaints as determined by the Chief
of Police or his or her designee, for a minimum of one year prior to the date
of the request;
      (2)   Be required to provide/hire at least one licensed uniformed
security guard per 100 people or a fraction thereof to remain on the premises
during hours of operation of the extended hours permit and until the parking
lot of the establishment is cleared of vehicles and patrons.
      (3)   Be required to maintain illuminated parking lots.
      (4)   Be required to maintain public access to the building.
      (5)   Be required to post the extended hours permit in compliance with
the Michigan Liquor Control Commission rules and regulations.
      (6)   Pay the application fee in the amount of $335.00.
   (e)   It shall be a violation of the extended hours permit:
      (1)   For a licensee or its employees to serve alcohol.
      (2)   For a licensee, its employees or its patrons to consume, display,
carry or possess alcohol.
      (3)   For a licensee to allow topless activity.
      (4)   For a licensee to allow Keno or other gaming authorized under the
McCauley-Traxler-Law- Bowman-McNeely Lottery Act.
   (f)   Failure to comply with this section may result in a request to the
Michigan Liquor Control Commission for the revocation of the extended hours
permit after due notice and proper hearing and issuance of a resolution by the
City Council.
   (g)   The issuance of an extended hours permit does not authorize the
extension of hours for the serving of alcohol by the licensee or its employees
or the consumption, exhibition, carrying, or possession of alcohol by the
licensee, or its employees or its patrons.
(Ord. 3692, passed 6-11-2007)
§ 12-50 LICENSE REQUIRED — REFERRAL FOR INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   All applications filed as hereinabove provided shall be referred to the
appropriate departments such as Building Inspections, Police Department, Fire
Department or Department of Public Health for investigation and the departments
shall determine that said applicant has complied with all requirements of the
City of Flint for the operation of said business. Upon approval of the
application by the aforementioned departments, the City Clerk shall issue the
license, provided the applicant has complied with all sections of this
ordinance and any other laws or ordinances applying to said applicant.
(Ord. 1876, passed 11-18-1965)
§ 12-51 SAME — FEES.
   License fees for each new business shall be collected by the City Clerk upon
application for an Initial Merchants License. This fee is not refundable or
transferable to any person, firm or corporation.
   In case the business to be conducted is a food establishment, or any
establishment for which an annual license is required under other ordinances of
the City of Flint, the applicant shall also file an application for such annual
license.
   License fees shall be as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1876, passed 11-18-1965)
§ 12-52 LICENSES FOR BRANCH STORES.
   Persons who own or operate established businesses in the City of Flint and
who shall desire to open and operate branch stores or branch places of business
of such established and licensed businesses shall first make application for
branch licenses for such branch stores or branch places of business to the City
Clerk before opening or operating same. No such branch license shall be issued
by the City Clerk until the application for such branch license shall have been
approved by the City Clerk. A branch license fee in an amount specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code shall be collected by the City Clerk before issuing a
branch license as provided for in this section.
(Ord. 1876, passed 11-18-1965)
§ 12-53 PROVISIONS NOT TO AFFECT REQUIREMENTS AS TO BONDS.
   This ordinance shall not affect or dispense with any requirement or in any
other ordinance of the City of Flint requiring bonds in cases of certain
businesses and certain sales of merchandise.
(Ord. 1876, passed 11-18-1965)
ARTICLE VIII. JUNK DEALERS, SECONDHAND DEALERS, PAWNBROKERS AND THE LIKE
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 12-53.1 COMPLIANCE; STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, copartnership
or firm, to engage in the business of pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, junk
dealer, auto salvage dealer or scrap iron and metal processor or recycler in
the City without first paying a license application fee as fixed by
Chapter 26 of this Code, securing a license and otherwise complying with this
article and the regulations of MCLA §§ 446.201 et seq., MCLA §§ 445.401 et
seq., MCLA §§ 445.481 et seq.; which provisions are hereby incorporated by
reference as a part of this article.
(Ord. 137, passed 9-18-1917; Ord. 2338, passed 5-18-1972; Ord. 2945, passed 3-
11-1985; Ord. 3573, passed 6-30-2004)
DIVISION 2. JUNK DEALERS, SECONDHAND DEALERS AND THE LIKE
§ 12-54 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   AUTO SALVAGE DEALER. Any junk dealer engaged exclusively in the business of
purchasing or receiving, wrecking or dismantling and the sale or exchange of
motor vehicles for the purpose of salvaging parts or materials therefrom.
   AUTO SALVAGE YARD or SHOP. Any place where an auto salvage dealer purchases
or receives, wrecks, dismantles, sells or exchanges used motor vehicles or the
parts or materials salvaged therefrom.
   COLLECTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for the collection, transportation or
handling of junk or secondhand property, except not including a wrecker
licensed pursuant to §
12-103 hereof.
   GOOD MORAL CHARACTER. The propensity on the part of the person to serve the
public in the licensed area in a fair, honest and open manner.
   GOODS. Any item not specifically covered by other definitions contained in
this section.
   JUNK. Any personal property which is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale,
reduction or similar disposition, or which is possessed, transported, owned,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted for any of the aforesaid
purposes. Without limiting the aforesaid definition of JUNK, the term shall
include used or salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, wood pallets
and similar articles of property and used motor vehicles or parts thereof which
are used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or salvaging parts or
materials therefrom.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person whose principal business is buying, exchanging,
collecting, receiving, storing, accumulating, selling or otherwise handling
junk.
   JUNK YARD or JUNK SHOP. Any place at which a junk dealer buys, exchanges,
collects, receives, stores, accumulates, sells or otherwise handles junk.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit or pledges of personal
property, or other valuable thing, other than securities or printed evidence of
indebtedness, or who deals in the purchasing or personal property or other
valuable thing on condition of selling same back again at a stipulated price.
   PAWNSHOP. Any place where a pawnbroker regularly conducts the business of
being a pawnbroker.
   SCRAP IRON AND METAL PROCESSOR or RECYCLER. Any junk dealer engaged
exclusively in the business of purchasing or receiving scrap iron and metal
(except scrapped motor vehicles not purchased from a licensed auto salvage
dealer or junk dealer) and the storing, processing, recycling and sale or
exchange thereof.
   SCRAP YARD. Any place where a scrap iron and metal processor or recycler
engages in the business of receiving, storing, processing or recycling scrap
iron or metal.
   SECONDHAND PROPERTY. Any household furniture, used wearing apparel, used
lumber, used bricks, used tile, used plumbing fixtures, used electrical
fixtures, used articles of precious metal, used jewelry, used electronic
equipment, used tools, and any other used articles or personal property bought
and sold by and from other than the original purchaser or user.
   SECONDHAND STORE. Any place at which a secondhand dealer buys, exchanges,
collects, receives, stores or sells secondhand property.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 1605, passed 10-17-1960; Ord. 2945, passed 3-
11-1985; Ord. 3265, passed 1-10-1994; Ord. 3574, passed 6-30-2004)
§ 12-54.1 SALE OF GOODS — LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a seller of goods to sell the goods or attempt to
sell the goods without first obtaining a license from the City of Flint as
provided by §
12-56 hereof.
(Ord. 3265, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 12-54.2 SAME — ON PARKING LOTS AND THE LIKE.
   No person, individual or corporation shall engage in the selling of goods or
attempt to engage in the selling of goods on a parking lot or parking lots or
any other property not owned by the seller without first obtaining the written
permission of the owner, occupant, lessee, agent or trustee of such property to
engage in such activity on the property.
(Ord. 3265, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 12-55 SECONDHAND OR JUNK DEALERS.
   Any person, corporation, partnership, copartnership or firm whose business
in whole or in part is that of purchasing, selling, exchanging, storing or
receiving secondhand articles of any kind is declared to be a secondhand dealer
or junk dealer; provided, that this definition shall not apply to retail
merchants who repossess their own merchandise sold on a title retaining
contract or chattel mortgage basis or who accept merchandise as a part payment
on new sales.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 1261, passed 3-14-1955; Ord. 2945, passed 3-
11-1985)
§ 12-56 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE;
RENEWAL.
   Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk upon blanks to
be provided. The applicant shall state his name, whether a person, firm or
corporation, the place at which such business is to be conducted or maintained,
the number and description of vehicles to be used in the conduct of the
business, and the applicant’s residence for a period of three years preceding
such application. The application so received by the City Clerk shall be
referred to the City Administrator and by him to the Divisions of Fire, Police,
and Building and Safety Inspections, for the purpose of investigation of the
applicant, inspection of vehicles, and the premises, to be used in the conduct
of the business.
   After receipt of the Divisions’ recommendations, the application shall be
submitted to the City Council, accompanied by evidence that the business
premises have been inspected within the preceding six months and found to be in
compliance with all applicable ordinances and licensing requirements. The City
Council, upon a determination that the applicant is of good moral character,
and has not been convicted of any recent felony and/or misdemeanor offense
related to the person’s likelihood to serve the public in a fair, honest and
open manner and that no such person is an officer, partner or owner of a
company who may be applying, shall grant a license to said applicant. The sole
power to grant licenses hereunder is vested in the City Council. Licenses
granted by the City Council shall be issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 1605, passed 10-17-1960; Ord. 2945, passed 3-
11-1985)
§ 12-57 SAME — FEES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   The fees for licenses issued under this division shall be as specified
in
Chapter 26.
   (b)   No person that is entirely devoted to charitable or religious purposes
and whose entire income is devoted to charitable and religious purposes shall
be subject to the fees prescribed for a license under this section. Such fees
are hereby waived as to such person; provided, that as such person shall apply
for and obtain a license as provided in this section.
   (c)   The fees for inspections required by §
12-56 of this chapter shall be included in the license fee specified in
Chapter 26. The fees for inspections required by a violation of this article
shall be charged in addition to those set forth above, and shall be double the
amount set forth in
Chapter 26 for any subsequent violations to cover the cost of follow-up
inspections and reports required.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 1763, passed 4-20-1964; Ord. 2945, passed 3-
11-1985)
§ 12-58 SAME — CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED FROM BEING LICENSEES; REVOCATION.
   (a)   No person known to be a thief or an associate of thieves, an habitual
drunkard, a receiver of stolen property or incapable of keeping the records and
making the reports provided for in this article shall be deemed to be a
suitable person to receive a license as an auto salvage dealer, scrap iron and
metal processor or recycler, secondhand dealer, junk dealer or pawnbroker.
   (b)   Any person, corporation, partnership, copartnership or firm to whom a
license as such may have been granted may have his license suspended or revoked
by the City Council at any time that the City Council may deem or determine
that the licensee is not in compliance with §
12-56, or has been convicted of any violation of this article after reasonable
notice and opportunity to be heard before such City Council or a hearing panel
of the Council in accordance with the rules for hearings previously adopted by
the Council.
   (c)   In case any person, corporation, partnership, copartnership, firm, or
any clerk, agent, servant, or employee of the person, corporation, partnership,
copartnership or firm shall be found guilty of violating §§
12-64,
12-65 or
12-66 hereof or MCLA §§ 445.401 et seq. or MCLA §§ 446.201 et seq., in a court
of competent jurisdiction, the license issued to such entity shall be deemed to
be revoked ipso facto and such entity shall not be permitted to carry on such
business within the City for a period of one year after such conviction.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 3575, passed 6-
30-2004)
§ 12-59 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES AND PREMISES.
   All vehicles and premises licensed, used or intended for use in connection
with a license granted under this article shall be inspected before a license
is issued or renewed.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 1605, passed 10-17-1960; Ord. 2945, passed 3-
11-1985)
§ 12-60 VEHICLE LICENSE TAGS.
   Each licensee shall receive a metal tag for each vehicle licensed under the
terms of this ordinance and said tag shall be attached to the vehicle. The
design of the license tag shall be changed annually and said tag shall be
issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 1605, passed 10-17-1960)
§ 12-61 CONSENT OF OWNERS OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY; LOCATION.
   Any applicant seeking to establish an auto salvage yard, scrap yard, junk
shop or junk yard in a location not previously used for that purpose, or any
licensee seeking to move or establish a junk shop or junk yard in a location
not previously used for that purpose, shall first obtain the consent in writing
of sixty-five percent of the owners of residential property within three
hundred feet of any part of the area in which the proposed business is to be
conducted. Such area shall include any portion to be used for the storage of
any property in connection with such proposed business. A junkyard shall not be
located as to seriously expose adjacent properties.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 1605, passed 10-17-1960; Ord. 2945, passed 3-
11-1985)
§ 12-62 NAME, ADDRESS, THUMBPRINT AND OTHER INFORMATION REQUIRED FROM PAWNORS
AND THE LIKE; PROVISIONS FOR TRANSACTIONS OF ALUMINUM SIDING.
   (a)   In addition to the requirements of State statutes referred to in this
article, every person licensed under said sections shall require that the
person from whom goods or a pledge is purchased or pawned give:
      (1)   His name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Place of employment, if any;
      (4)   General description; and
      (5)   Legible fully rolled thumbprint. If either thumb is amputated,
mutilated or disfigured so that a legible rolled classified print cannot be
obtained, then the legible rolled classified print of the finger next to the
thumb will be accepted, but must be designated on the report. However, any
person with a fixed place of business within Genesee County for a period in
excess of six months, or his agent, is not required to give a thumbprint as
stated above, when the material or goods involved is a used motor vehicle
acquired for the purposes of wrecking or salvaging therefrom.
   (b)   Aluminum siding.
      (1)   Every person licensed under this article shall also require that
the person from whom aluminum siding is purchased or pawned first present his
City of Flint permit from the Building and Safety Inspections Division, showing
that removal of the siding was authorized. No siding may be purchased or pawned
from persons not in possession of a valid permit.
      (2)   Every person licensed under this article shall also maintain a
record showing the permit number, date of issuance, and date of purchase of
aluminum siding.
(Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 3065, passed 7-11-1988; Ord. 3576, passed 6-
30-2004; Ord. 3764, passed 3-8-2010)
§ 12-62.1 OPERATION OF PAWNBROKERS ON SUNDAY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under the provisions of MCLA §§
446.201 et seq., or this ordinance to transact any business as such pawnbroker,
or to open, or keep open the place or room where the pawnbroker’s business
shall be conducted, on the first day of the week commonly called Sunday.
(Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 3577, passed 6-30-2004)
§ 12-62.2 PERIOD OF RETENTION.
   All items taken in pawn shall have remained in possession of the pawnbroker
for at least ninety (90) days prior to sale. All items taken in pawn shall be
stored separate and apart from other items not less than three days.
(Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 3578, passed 6-30-2004)
§ 12-62.3 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF POLICE, BUILDING INSPECTOR OR FIRE MARSHAL.
   Every licensee under this article shall provide access to the premises where
business is conducted or property is stored, to any police officer, Building
Inspector or the Fire Marshal, without warrant, during regular hours of
business, or at any time the licensee or his agent are on the premises.
(Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 12-62.4 SALE OR POSSESSION OF ITEMS WITH SERIAL NUMBERS ALTERED, REMOVED AND
THE LIKE.
   (a)   No licensee under this article or employee thereof, shall conceal or
misrepresent the identity by removing, concealing, defacing, adding to,
substituting or altering the serial number or manufacturer’s number on any
motor vehicle, motor, appliance, mechanical device, watch, clock, camera,
precision instrument, outboard motor, radio, shotgun or any other article or
thing whereon the manufacturer has placed numbers for the purpose of
identification. By altering or replacing any part of such article or thing
bearing the serial or manufacture’s number with a new or replaced part upon
which the proper serial or manufacturer’s number has not been stamped or
placed.
   (b)   No person licensed under this article shall deal in, or possess any
motor vehicle, motor, appliance, mechanical device, watch, clock, camera,
precision instrument, outboard motor, radio or other article or thing from
which the serial numbers have been removed, concealed, defaced, added to,
substituted or altered.
   (c)   In all prosecutions under this section, possession by any dealer,
distributor, wholesaler or person, firm, copartnership or corporation in the
business of buying and selling of any motor vehicle, motor, appliance,
mechanical device, watch, clock, camera, precision instrument, outboard motor,
radio, or other article or thing with the manufacturer’s number or
identification number removed, concealed, defaced, added to, substituted or
altered, shall be prima facie evidence of violation of the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 12-62.5 POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   (a)   Whenever a law enforcement official from any agency notifies a dealer
not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed from the premises. If
the hold was conveyed verbally, the hold shall be confirmed by the
investigating agency within seventy-two (72) hours either in writing or by
electronic transmission. The order to hold an item shall expire sixty (60) days
from the date it is placed unless the holding agency seizes the item as
evidence or determines the hold is still necessary and notifies the business in
writing or by electronic transmission to continue the hold for an additional
sixty (60) days.
   (b)   If an item is identified as stolen, or as evidence in a criminal case,
by any law enforcement agency, the investigating agency may, but is not limited
to:
      (1)   Seize the item and retain it as evidence; or
      (2)   Place the item on hold and extend the hold as provided in this
section; and/or,
      (3)   Photograph, videotape or otherwise electronically capture the item;
and/or,
      (4)   Order the item released to the proper owner, after the owner has
paid the cost of the item paid by the business.
   (c)   All holds on any item shall expire one hundred-twenty (120) days from
the date the hold was issued, and the business holding the property may dispose
of it as if a hold had never been placed unless the item is necessary, for
evidentiary purposes, for an investigation which has resulted in criminal
charges being brought. In that case, the investigating agency may continue the
hold past 120 days and until the case is resolved. The investigating agency
must notify the business, in writing, on official departmental letterhead, of
the following:
      (1)   The need for the item to be held further; and,
      (2)   The agency complaint or case number; and,
      (3)   The name and telephone number of the investigating officer(s); and,
      (4)   The name of the court and the court docket number assigned to the
case.
   (d)   It is the sole responsibility of the investigating officer, and/or
their agency, to notify the business promptly when the case is resolved and
there is no longer a need to hold the item.
(Ord. 3579, passed 6-30-2004)
§ 12-63 PURCHASE — SALE PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   No person, corporation, partnership, copartnership or association shall sell
or purchase by sale, barter, exchange or otherwise, an article under a license
issued pursuant to this chapter from or to any person, corporation,
partnership, copartnership, or association between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. of the following day. In addition, no person, corporation,
partnership, copartnership, or association shall sell or purchase by sale,
barter, exchange or otherwise, any junk between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. the following day.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 3580, passed 6-30-2004)
§ 12-64 POSTING OF BUSINESS SIGN; RECORDS REQUIRED TO BE KEPT.
   Every person licensed under this article shall post in a conspicuous place
in or upon his shop, store, wagon, vehicle, barn or other place of business, a
sign having his name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon, and shall keep a
separate book, or electronic record, open to inspection by members of the
police force, Sheriff’s office and other public officers, in which shall be
written in the English language at the time of the purchase or exchange of such
article or junk all information required under the applicable ordinances in
this article and the following:
   (a)   A description of such articles or junk; including salvaged iron,
aluminum, brass, lead, copper and other base metal and their compounds or
combinations, the quantity and/or weight of such items;
   (b)   The name, description and residence of the person, including the
driver’s license number and the vehicle license number or a non-driver’s
license identification number, from whom the same was purchased and received;
and
   (c)   The day and hour when the purchase or exchange was made.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 3581, passed 6-
30-2004)
§ 12-65 ARTICLES PURCHASED BY DEALER TO BE RETAINED UNALTERED FOR SPECIFIC
PERIODS; EXCEPTIONS; REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (a)   Articles or junk purchased or exchanged shall be retained by the
purchaser thereof for not less than 15 days before disposing of them, in an
accessible place in the building or other suitable location, where such
articles or junk are purchased and received. A tag shall be attached to such
articles or junk in some visible and conspicuous place with a number written
thereon to correspond with the entry number in such book or electronic record.
For items not reported electronically, such purchaser shall prepare and deliver
on Monday of each week to the Chief of Police before noon, a legible and
correct copy, written in the English language, from such book, containing a
description of each article or junk, including, for salvaged iron, aluminum,
brass, lead, copper and other base metal and their compounds or combinations,
the quantity and/or weight of such items, purchased or received during the
previous week, the hour and day when the purchase was made and the description
of the person from whom it was purchased. Such statement shall be verified by
the affidavit of the person subscribing his name thereto; provided that this
section shall not apply to old rags or waste paper; provided further that the
15-day retention requirement shall not apply to licensed scrap iron and metal
processors and recyclers.
   (b)   Any person who is engaged in the business of buying, exchanging,
collecting, receiving, storing or selling any used motor vehicle(s) for the
purpose of wrecking or salvaging parts therefrom shall report each such
transaction to the City of Flint Police Department within five business days
(excluding Saturday and Sunday) from the date of the transaction. Such report
shall contain, as to each transaction, a description of each such motor vehicle
acquired, including its vehicle identification number, the hour and day when
the purchase was made and a description of the person from whom it was
acquired. Such report shall be on forms approved by the City of Flint Police
Department and shall be made under oath. The used motor vehicles shall be
retained in the same physical state in which they were at the time of
acquisition for a period of five business days (excluding Saturday and Sunday)
after the time the report is received by the City of Flint Police Department
before being disposed of or altered in any fashion.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 2647, passed 6-26-1978; Ord. 2945, passed 3-
11-1985; Ord. 3582, passed 6-30-2004)
§ 12-66 PURCHASES FROM CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall receive any article from any person who is at the time
intoxicated or from any habitual drunkard or from any person known by said
person to be a thief or an associate of thieves or a receiver of stolen
property, or from any person whom he has reason to suspect is not the owner of
the property or from any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years without
consent of the parents of such minor.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941; Ord. 1685, passed 7-23-1962; Ord. 2334, passed 10-
26-1970; Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 12-67 RESERVED.
§ 12-67.1 OPERATION AND CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   (a)   (1)   No licensee under this article shall maintain a junk yard or
junk shop, auto salvage yard or scrap metal yard or any other business unless
such business is carried on entirely inside a building or unless the premises
on which the business is conducted are entirely enclosed (except for gates or
doors for ingress and egress) by a fence, at least eight (8) feet in height,
provided that on any part of such premises along or visible from residential
property or a public highway or street such fence and any doors and gates shall
be of solid masonry, steel or wood construction.
      Gates and doors for access to the premises shall swing inward and shall
be designed so that operations conducted on the premises are not visible from
the adjoining street. All gates and doors shall be closed when the premises are
not open for business.
      All fence designs and material specifications shall be submitted in
writing to the Building and Safety Inspections Division for review and approval
before the permit required by §
17-2 will be issued, and shall thereafter be installed in a conventional manner
according to the requirements of the City Code.
      Barbed wire shall be installed on the top of such fences on arms or
supports projecting over the private property side of the fence at least eight
(8) feet above the adjacent grade.
   (b)   Where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
requirements for solid fences along highways, streets and residential property
will result in unnecessary hardship or involve practical difficulties, the
Department of Building and Safety Inspection may, in specific cases, vary or
modify the time for application thereof, imposing such conditions or
limitations it finds necessary to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare, subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 12-67.2 CONDITIONS OF PREMISES GENERALLY.
   (a)   All walls and fences of businesses licensed under this article shall
be maintained in a neat, substantial manner.
      No junk, secondhand property, salvage or scrap metal or other materials
shall be permitted to lean on or touch any such wall or fence, nor to be in
front or attached to or suspended on any such wall or fence on the building
thereof, nor permitted, along any highway or street or residential property, to
be piled within two (2) feet from the base of the wall or fence nor in excess
of the enclosing wall or fence, and in no case to be piled in a manner likely
to endanger a person or persons using any such highway or street, or be visible
from an adjoining street or highway or residentially zoned property.
      Scrap metal, stored in connection with reprocessing operations may exceed
the height of the walls or fences required under this article, provided, that
said material is no closer than 25 feet to the surrounding fence or wall along
any highway, street or residential property.
   (b)   The material located in or on the premises of any business licensed
under this article shall be so arranged so that safe aisles, driveways and
uniform passageways provide reasonable access to all parts of the premises for
inspection by law enforcement officers or firefighting operations.
   (c)   The layout, arrangements and construction of buildings and premises
used in connection with businesses licensed under this article shall comply
with the applicable requirements of the City Code and shall be provided with
suitable fire protection and extinguishment equipment.
   (d)   Maintenance of premises, burning on premises. All premises used in
connection with a business licensed under this article shall be maintained in a
clean, sanitary and neat condition, and so maintained so that rats, vermin, and
fire hazards are as far as practicable reduced to a minimum. No junk,
secondhand property or parts thereof shall be burned on such premises unless a
valid permit from the Fire Marshal and the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources have been issued and are in force.
   All businesses licensed under this article shall comply with all laws and
regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the
Michigan Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985)
§ 12-67.3 STORAGE OF SCRAP TIRES.
   Regulation relative to the storage of scrap tires in outdoor collection
sites.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.1 DEFINITIONS.
   OUTDOOR COLLECTION SITE. Any location within the City of Flint which is in
plain view or opened for aerial observation including any space partially or
wholly surrounded by a fence or a wall either:
      (1)   Where thirty (30) or more but fewer than five hundred (500) scrap
tires are accumulated for a period of 24 hours or longer on real property which
is not adjacent to a retail tire operation as provided in subdivision (2); or
      (2)   Where thirty (30) or more but fewer than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) scrap tires are accumulated for a period of 24 hours or longer on real
property which is adjacent to and owned or leased by a person who is in the
business of retail tire sales.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation
and their successors.
   SCRAP TIRE. A tire that is no longer being used for its original intended
purpose.
   STORAGE. The maintenance or possession of scrap tires in an outdoor
collection site but excluding those tires which are affixed to any motorized
vehicle.
   TIRE. A continuous solid or pneumatic rubber covering which encircles a
wheel whether new, used, or scrap, and was manufactured for use in the
operation of any motorized vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including, but not limited to, all
terrain vehicles, automobiles, farm implements, jeeps, motorcycles,
recreational vehicles, tractors, trucks, and vans, but excepting devices
propelled exclusively by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails
or tracks.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.2 UNAUTHORIZED STORAGE OF SCRAP TIRES IN OUTDOOR COLLECTION SITES
PROHIBITED.
   Unless in compliance with the requirements of this division, persons are
prohibited from owning, maintaining, leasing, operating or managing any outdoor
collection site for the storage of any scrap tires either:
   (a)   Where thirty (30) or more but fewer than five hundred (500) scrap
tires are accumulated on real property which is not associated with a retail
tire operation; or
   (b)   Where thirty (30) or more but fewer than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) scrap tires are accumulated on real property which is adjacent to and
owned or leased by a person who is in the business of retail tire sales.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.3 SAME — EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this division shall not apply to the storage of scrap
tires in an outdoor collection site where the total number is fewer than thirty
(30) tires.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.4 SAME — PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   Persons are prohibited from the storage of scrap tires in an outdoor
collection site without obtaining an annual permit issued by the Building and
Safety Inspections Division. When applying for this permit, such persons shall
submit a completed scrap tire outdoor collection site registration form; the
proper fee established by ordinance; and a scaled set of blue prints or
drawings of the outdoor collection site including the dimensions and the
geographic positions of all adjacent streets, property lines, private water
supply lines, fencing, buildings, and other objects.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.5 SAME — INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   Prior to issuance of any permit under this division, persons, who utilize an
outdoor collection site for the storage of scrap tires, shall deliver to the
City of Flint - Risk Management Department a commercial liability and property
damage insurance policy naming the City an additional insured and providing for
payment in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for each
occurrence and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) aggregate for any
liability imposed by law.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.6 SAME — BOND REQUIREMENT.
   Prior to issuance of any permit under this division, persons, who utilize an
outdoor collection site for the storage of scrap tires, shall deliver to the
City of Flint - Risk Management Department a surety bond in favor of the City
to provide for payment in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for
the collection, transportation and/or disposal costs incurred when the Building
and Safety Inspection Division determines that such tires are to be removed
because a public emergency exists at the outdoor collection site including, but
not limited to, the abandonment of the outdoor collection site by the persons
utilizing the same for storage.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.7 SAME — STACKING REQUIREMENT.
   Where an outdoor collection site is utilized for storage, scrap tires shall
be stacked in separate piles. Each pile shall be separated from every other
pile by an aisle which shall be a minimum of twenty (20) feet in width. Each
pile shall be of uniform design configuration which is not more than ten (10)
feet in width, twenty (20) feet in length, and ten (10) feet in height.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.8 SAME — DISTANCE FROM COMBUSTIBLES.
   Where an outdoor collection site is utilized for storage, scrap tires shall
not be placed within fifty (50) feet either of any combustible fiber, refuse or
waste, or of any grass, weeds or brush.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.9 SAME — DISTANCE FROM BUILDINGS AND PROPERTY LINES.
   Where an outdoor collection site is utilized for storage, scrap tires shall
not be placed either within one hundred (100) feet of any building or within
twenty (20) feet of any property line.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.10 SAME — DISTANCE FROM FIRES OR FIRE PRODUCING INSTRUMENTS.
   Where an outdoor collection site is utilized for storage, scrap tires shall
not be placed within fifty (50) feet of any open fires, or any welding, cutting
or brazing torches.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.11 SAME — DISTANCE FROM MOTORIZED EQUIPMENT, SPARK ARRESTING DEVICES
REQUIREMENT.
   Where an outdoor collection site is utilized for storage, scrap tires shall
not be placed within fifty (50) feet of any motorized equipment unless the
motorized equipment is operated with spark arresting devices on the exhaust
pipes or exhaust system.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.12 SAME — SMOKING PROHIBITED; NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   Where an outdoor collection site is utilized for storage, the smoking of
cigarettes, cigars, or pipes is prohibited within fifty (50) feet of any
outdoor location containing scrap tires.
   Persons, who utilize an outdoor collection site for the storage of scrap
tires, shall post, in prominent and visible places both inside and outside
their outdoor collection site, signs which prohibit smoking.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.13 SAME — FENCE REQUIREMENT.
   Where an outdoor collection site is utilized for the storage of scrap tires,
the location shall be surrounded by a noncombustible, opaque fence which is ten
(10) feet high, topped with barbed wire, and equipped with a lockable gate.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-67.3.14 SAME — PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   (a)   Any person who violates this division is guilty of a misdemeanor which
is punishable by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or a fine of
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) for each scrap tire which is disposed of or
accumulated in violation of this division to a maximum fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or both.
   (b)   Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation for the purpose of the Court imposing punishment under this division.
(Ord. 3342, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 12-68 SALE OF BEDDING, CLOTHING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any secondhand dealer or junk dealer to sell or
deliver or cause to be sold or delivered any bed mattress which is stained or
discolored, or the contents of which are musty, or to sell or deliver any
secondhand clothing or bedding until the same has been thoroughly cleansed and
disinfected, or to sell or deliver any secondhand linen until the same has been
laundered.
   Provided, that the foregoing provisions shall apply only when such articles
are sold or delivered for consumption or use or resold at retail, and that such
provisions are inapplicable when such articles are to be sold or delivered for
reprocessing.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941)
§ 12-69 OBJECTION OF NEIGHBORING RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY OWNERS.
   No person shall keep or store any secondhand property or junk within 300
feet of any residence if sixty-five percent (65%) of the owners of residential
property within 300 feet from any part of the area used for the location and
conduct of a junk or secondhand business shall have filed with the City Clerk a
petition objecting to the conduct of such business and the selling, buying,
placing or storing of secondhand property or junk within such area. Such
petition shall be effective as conveying such objections and complying with
this section when it is received by the City Council at an official meeting.
(Ord. 426, passed 5-26-1941)
§ 12-69.1 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   (a)   An appearance ticket may be issued by a police officer, or any other
employee authorized pursuant to §
1-8 and §
1-9 of the Code for any violation of this article. If the offense is of a
continuing nature, each day shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (b)   A person convicted of a violation of this article, except as to those
sections specifically listed in subsection (c), shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 90 days and/or by a
fine not to exceed $500.00 or both, together with the costs of prosecution.
   (c)   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §§
12-53.1,
12-54.1,
12-54.2,
12-56,
12-62.1,
12-63,
12-67.1,
12-67.3.2,
12-67.3.4,
12-67.3.5,
12-67.3.6,
12-67.3.7,
12-67.3.8,
12-67.3.9,
12-67.3.10,
12-67.3.11,
12-67.3.12 or
12-67.3.13 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant
to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 2945, passed 3-11-1985; Ord. 3550, passed 6-9-2004)
ARTICLE IX. LEASING MOTORCYCLES AND THE LIKE
§ 12-70 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle having a saddle or seat for the use of a rider
and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter with a
motor which produces not to exceed five maximum brake horsepower, and every
bicycle with a motor attached.
(Ord. 1987, passed 7-24-1967)
Cross-reference:
   Motorcycles, see §§
28-175 –
28-183
Statutory reference:
   Leasing of motorcycles, see MCLA 257.251b
§ 12-71 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or maintain the business of
renting, leasing or offering for hire of motorcycles or motor-driven cycles as
hereinabove defined without first obtaining a license as hereinafter provided
from the City Council.
(Ord. 1987, passed 7-24-1967)
§ 12-72 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Application shall be made to the City Clerk on a form to be prescribed by
him. The application shall set forth, among other things, the number of
motorcycles or motor-driven cycles to be offered for rent or lease, a
description of same and the license numbers thereof, the nature of repair,
storage and maintenance facilities and the rates to be charged.
(Ord. 1987, passed 7-24-1967)
§ 12-73 SAME — FEE; TERM.
   The licensee shall pay a yearly fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code upon approval of its application by the City Council.
All licenses issued under this ordinance, unless sooner revoked, shall be for a
period of one year and shall expire on April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 1987, passed 7-24-1967)
§ 12-74 SAME — ISSUANCE.
   The City Council shall issue a license for the operation of the business of
renting, leasing, or offering for hire of motorcycle or motor-driven cycles
upon a finding that:
   (a)   The use of the contemplated premises for the purpose of conducting the
business of leasing, renting or offering for hire of motorcycles or motor-
driven cycles would not constitute a public nuisance, would not interfere with
the peace, tranquility, well-being, health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of the City of Flint, particularly those residing in the neighborhood adjacent
to such location and that such business would not, through the emission of
noise, smoke, fumes and/or bright lights serve to impair the peace, tranquility
and well-being of residential areas in the vicinity of the location;
   (b)   The owner of the premises is financially able to keep motorcycles or
motor-driven cycles in good running order and shall equip the same with
mufflers of a type to be specified by the Chief of Police and all other
equipment required by City ordinance or State law;
   (c)   That the licensee is able to and shall place on file with the City
Clerk of the City of Flint a certificate of public liability insurance
indicating that it carries public liability insurance coverage on all
motorcycles and motor-driven cycles offered for rent or lease with property
damage liability in the amount of $10,000.00 and personal injury liability in
the amount of $100,000.00 for any one person and $300,000.00 for more than one
person injured in a single accident. The certificate shall not be cancelable
except on 30 days notice in writing to the City Council.
(Ord. 1987, passed 7-24-1967)
§ 12-75 SAME — SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The license of the owner shall be revoked forwith in the event the above
specified insurance is not in full force and effect. The City Council shall
have the right to cancel the license of the owner upon a determination, after
receipt of the written findings and recommendations of the City Administrator,
that the operation is such as to indicate noncompliance with the terms and
conditions of issuance of said license, as set forth in §
12-74 hereof, or of the requirements set forth in §§
12-76 and
12-77 hereof. Final cancellation, except for failure to maintain proper
insurance, shall be made only after notification in writing to the licensee,
ten days in advance of the meeting at which the recommendations of the City
Administrator are to be presented to the City Council, and upon affording the
licensee, or his attorney, an opportunity to be heard before the City Council.
The City Administrator shall have the authority to suspend the license, for a
period not to exceed fourteen days upon holding a hearing, after notification
in writing, upon two days notice to the licensee, pending final action by the
City Council.
(Ord. 1987, passed 7-24-1967)
§ 12-76 LESSEE AND OPERATOR TO BE LICENSED BY STATE; RECORDS.
   No licensee shall let or furnish any such motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
to any person who is not licensed to operate a vehicle in this State. It shall
be unlawful for any person, whether he be the owner or lessee of a motorcycle
or motor-driven cycle, to permit any person who is not licensed by the State of
Michigan to drive or operate the vehicle. Before letting, leasing or furnishing
any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle to any person, the licensee shall make a
permanent and legible record containing the name, address and age of the person
to whom the motorcycle or motor-driven cycle is leased, rented or let and shall
record thereon the number and date of issue and expiration of the driver’s
license, together with the description of the person as shown by the driver’s
license, and identify the vehicle leased or rented to the person by the motor
vehicle license number issued by the State of Michigan, together with the date
of such licensing. All records required by this section shall be kept for a
period of not less than one year and shall at all times be open to inspection
by the Police Department of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 1987, passed 7-24-1967)
§ 12-77 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS ON LEASING.
   The licensee shall comply with the following requirements.
   (a)   That all rentals of motorcycles and motor- driven cycles shall have an
insignia, of a design to be specified by the Chief of Police, setting forth the
horsepower of the vehicle and the name of the rental agency.
   (b)   That the licensee shall furnish, to drivers and passengers, helmets as
required by ordinance or State law.
   (c)   That a licensee shall not allow a motor- driven cycle to be on rental
after one-half hour before sunset.
   (d)   That the licensee shall inform every person or persons renting
motorcycles or motor-driven cycles, of applicable laws and regulations
governing the use thereof and shall post such requirements in a conspicuous
location upon his place of business.
   (e)   That the licensee shall furnish the Police Department, from time to
time, with a current list of the license numbers of all rental vehicles.
   (f)   The licensee shall not rent a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle to any
person who is, or appears to be, under the influence of alcoholic beverages or
drugs, or whose ability to operate the vehicle appears to be impaired for any
other reason.
   (g)   That the licensee shall be equipped to give instructions in the use of
said rental vehicles to ensure the persons renting same have the necessary
skill to drive such vehicles.
(Ord. 1987, passed 7-24-1967)
ARTICLE X. NONFIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 12-78 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A nonfire detection device or an assembly of equipment and/or
devices arranged to signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention
to which the police are expected to respond.
   ALARM SYSTEM AGENT. A person employed by an alarm system contractor whose
duties include the altering, installing, maintaining, moving, repairing,
replacing, selling, servicing, responding to or causing others to respond to an
alarm system.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The City of Flint Police Department.
(Ord. 2667, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 12-79 PERMIT REQUIRED; PERMISSION REQUIRED TO CONNECT SYSTEMS TO POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   A person, firm, company, partnership or corporation shall not engage
in the business of alarm system contraction, or alarm system agent,
notwithstanding the name or title used in describing the agency and
notwithstanding that other functions and services may be performed for fee,
hire or reward, nor shall a person, firm, company, partnership or corporation
advertise the business to be that of alarm system contractor or alarm system
agent, without having obtained from the Department of State Police, a license
to do so provided for in Public Act 330 of 1968, as amended, for each bureau,
agency, subagency, office and branch office to be owned, conducted, managed or
maintained for the conduct of that business.
   (b)   A person shall not sell, install, operate, adjust, arrange for or
contract to provide a device which upon activation either mechanically,
electronically or by any other means initiates the automatic calling or dialing
of or makes a connection directly to a telephone assigned to the Police
Department for the purpose of delivering a recorded message without first
receiving written permission from the Chief of Police Department.
(Ord. 2667, passed 10-9-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Private Security Business and Security Alarm Act, see MCLA 338.1051 et seq.
§ 12-80 INSTALLATION OF SYSTEMS GENERALLY.
   (a)   An alarm system may not be installed or operated in the City of Flint
unless the system is:
      (1)   Installed by an alarm system contractor licensed under Public Act
330 of 1968, as amended.
      (2)   Installed by the owner or occupant of a residence in his own
residence.
   (b)   An alarm system installed in a commercial or public building shall
utilize equipment and methods of installation equivalent to or exceeding
minimum Underwriters Laboratory requirements for appropriate installation.
   (c)   An alarm system installed in a residence shall utilize equipment
equivalent to or exceeding minimum applicable Underwriters Laboratory or
American National Standards Institute requirements for household burglar alarm
system.
(Ord. 2667, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 12-81 FALSE ALARMS; DEFECTIVE SYSTEM.
   (a)   As used in this section FALSE ALARM means the activation of an alarm
system through mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation,
negligence, or the intentional activation of the alarm system without
reasonable and legitimate need by the owner or lessee of an alarm system or his
employee or agent.
   (b)   An alarm system experiencing more than two (2) false alarms for a
commercial establishment or four (4) false alarms for a residence within a
calendar year is deemed defective and upon written notice to the owner or
lessee of the alarm system by the Police Department the owner or lessee shall
have the system inspected by an alarm system contractor who shall within
fifteen (15) days file a written report to the Department of State Police and
the City Police Department of the results of the inspection of the system, the
probable cause of the false alarms, and its recommendations for eliminating
false alarms.
   (c)   Upon receipt of the report the Department of State Police may, after
notice and hearing, order the owner or lessee to correct the system based upon
the recommendations contained in the report.
   (d)   Failures to comply with this section shall result in any written
permission previously granted by the Chief of Police Department pursuant to §
12-79(b) of this ordinance being revoked upon written notice to the owner or
lessee of the alarm system by the Police Department containing the reasons for
the revocation.
   (e)   An owner or lessee receiving such notice of a defective alarm system
and who fails to comply with this section and where additional false alarms are
experienced after such failure to comply shall be fined a minimum of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per false alarm.
(Ord. 2667, passed 10-9-1978)
ARTICLE XI. SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OF CHRISTMAS TREES
§ 12-82 COMPLIANCE.
   No person, firm, corporation, or charitable organization shall sell or
distribute Christmas trees upon any vacant lot or other outdoor location within
the City of Flint except pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions
hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 12-83 ON TAX EXEMPT PROPERTY.
   The sale or distribution of Christmas trees by charitable institutions
occupying property exempt from taxation pursuant to statutes of the State of
Michigan, upon such tax exempt property, may take place notwithstanding the
provisions set forth in
Chapter 50 of this Code.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965; Ord. 1881, passed 12-13-1965; Ord. 1943, passed
10-31-1966; Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-1967)
§ 12-84 LICENSE — APPLICATION; EXEMPTION; FEE.
   Every person, firm or corporation or charitable organization desiring to
sell or distribute Christmas trees upon a vacant lot or other outdoor location
within the City of Flint shall make application to the City Clerk of the City
of Flint no later than two days prior to the commencement of such operations,
setting forth the information hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that
every person, firm or corporation regularly operating a florist shop, nursery
or other business principally devoted to the sale, at retail, of nursery stock,
flowers and gardening equipment, shall be exempt from the licensing and bonding
requirements:
   (a)   The name, address or headquarters of the applicant;
   (b)   The location of the premises upon which operations are to be
conducted, the owner of same, and the nature and extent of the applicant’s
right to occupy the premises if the applicant is not the owner. The applicant
shall furnish documentary evidence with reference to the latter requirement if,
in the opinion of the Chief Legal Officer, such information is required.
   An application fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code shall accompany the application for each location. This
fee shall be for the purpose of covering the cost of processing the application
and conducting the investigations and inspections hereinafter provided and
shall not be returnable. Upon receipt of the foregoing information and the bond
required by §
12-86, and upon ascertaining that the applicant is not in arrears in the
payment of amounts properly charged under §
12-86, the City Clerk shall approve said application.
   In the event the applicant is a corporation or charitable organization, the
person signing said application on behalf of same shall assume personal
responsibility for compliance with the provisions of this ordinance and shall
be subject to the penalty provisions hereof.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965; Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-1967)
§ 12-85 SAME — ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of the application and bond specified above and upon approval
of said application, the City Clerk shall issue a permit which shall be
prominently displayed upon the premises.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 12-86 BOND.
   In addition to the license fee provided in §
12-84, the applicant shall furnish a cash bond in the amount of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) to insure full and faithful compliance with the following
requirements:
   (a)   The applicant shall remove all unsold Christmas trees, limbs, brush
and debris from the premises within seven (7) days after the termination of the
operations.
   (b)   The applicant shall remove, within seven (7) days after termination of
operations, any other material or conditions which constitute a public or
private nuisance or which constitute a fire hazard or which are detrimental to
the general health, safety and welfare of adjacent property owners and the
general public.
   (c)   The City of Flint shall be empowered to use the amount of said bond
for the purpose of performing the obligations hereinabove set forth.
   If the City is required to perform the obligations hereby imposed upon the
applicant, the cost of same shall be computed and charged to the applicant,
together with a penalty charge of 10%. If the cost thereof exceeds the amount
of the bond, the applicant shall remit same within ten (10) days of
notification. Failure to thusly remit shall constitute just and sufficient
cause to reject any future applications to sell or distribute Christmas trees
within the City of Flint. If the costs and penalty hereinabove specified are
less than the amount of the bond, the difference between the same and the
amount of the bond shall be returned to the applicant. The applicant shall be
required to appear in person, or by his duly authorized representative at the
office of the City Clerk to claim this amount. An inspection shall be conducted
by representatives of the City of Flint prior to the return, in full or in
part, of the amounts hereinabove specified.
   The bonds herein contemplated shall be signed by the applicant or his duly
authorized agent and the owner or owners of the premises upon which the
operations are to be conducted. The instrument shall further, by express terms,
empower the City of Flint by its duly designated agents or employees, to enter
upon the premises for the purpose of performing the obligations set forth in §
12-90; provided, however, that any person, firm or corporation selling
Christmas trees upon property properly zoned therefor and upon which their
principal use is situated shall not be required to post the bond as hereinabove
set forth. In the event, however, that such person, firm or corporation shall
fail to comply with the provisions hereinabove set forth, such failure shall
constitute just and sufficient cause to reject any further applications to sell
or distribute Christmas trees upon said property.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965; Ord. 1977, passed 6-12-1967)
§ 12-87 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   The applicant shall maintain the premises in a safe and sanitary condition.
The applicant shall not allow combustible materials to accumulate upon the
premises, and shall comply forthwith with the requirements of officials of the
Fire Department, the Department of Public Works and Utilities and the Police
Department of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 12-88 ERECTION OF BUILDINGS, SIGNS AND THE LIKE.
   The applicant shall erect temporary buildings, signs and other structures
only in accordance with the requirements of the Building and Zoning Ordinances
of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 12-89 INSTALLATION OF ELECTRICAL DEVICES AND APPARATUS.
   The applicant shall install electrical devices and apparatus only in
accordance with the provisions of the Electrical Code as amended, of the City
of Flint.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 12-90 INSPECTION OF PREMISES; EFFECT OF FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   The locations upon which Christmas trees are sold or distributed shall be
inspected for the purpose of determining whether there has been compliance with
the provisions of this ordinance. Upon ascertaining that there has been failure
to comply with any of such provisions, the applicant shall forthwith
discontinue operations and shall resume operations only upon compliance
herewith. Failure to thusly comply shall subject the applicant to the penalty
provisions hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965)
§ 12-90.5 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §
12-82 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 1835, passed 5-3-1965; Ord. 3551, passed 6-9-2004)
ARTICLE XII. SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OF COAL AND COKE
§ 12-91 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall bargain, sell, contract for or deliver
coal or coke, at retail within the City of Flint without first having obtained
a license so to do, as hereinafter set forth, and without complying with the
provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 370, passed 1-29-1931)
§ 12-92 SAME — APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; FEE; ISSUANCE; TERM;
RENEWAL.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to bargain, sell, contract for or
deliver coal or coke at retail within the City of Flint shall make application
under oath and in writing to the City Clerk for a license so to do, on blanks
which shall be supplied for that purpose, giving the following information:
      (a)   The name under which such business is to be conducted.
      (b)   Nature of the organization, whether an individual, firm,
corporation or association.
      (c)   Proposed location or address of all storage yards and of the
principal business office if it is at a different location than the yards.
      (d)   Name of the person to be actively in charge of the proposed
business.
      (e)   The applicant possesses, leases or has continuous access to
sufficient and necessary scales and weighing facilities that have been sealed
by the Sealer of Weights and Measures, and the location of the scales and
weighing facilities.
   Such application shall thereafter be transmitted to the City Administrator
who shall investigate the same, the result of which shall be reported in
writing with his recommendation of approval or denial of the license to the
City Clerk within thirty days after he has received such application. If the
license is approved by the City Administrator and the said applicant has not
had a fuel license theretofore revoked, the City Clerk, upon payment by the
applicant of a fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code, shall forthwith issue a license to such applicant,
which license shall be indexed by the City Clerk and shall bear a distinct
number which shall be retained from year to year provided the license is
properly renewed. If the City Administrator shall refuse to approve the
application for license, the City Clerk, upon petition by the applicant, shall
refer such application to the City Council for such action as it sees fit to
take. Such license after its issuance, and all licenses shall be deemed to
expire on April 30 of each year, and shall be renewed by the City Clerk upon
the payment of the annual fee without filing a new application. The license fee
shall be paid for any part or portion of the year while the license is in
force.
(Ord. 370, passed 1-29-1931; Ord. 1072, passed 3-24-1953)
Statutory reference:
   Weights and Measures Act, Act 283 of 1964, see MCLA 290.601 et seq.
§ 12-93 SAME — REVOCATION.
   The license herein granted may be revoked by the City Council at any time
upon due showing that the licensee has been guilty of fraudulent practices of
any kind, either by intentionally delivering less coal or coke than as shown on
their weight certificate or by delivering coal or coke of a quality inferior to
that ordered, or has violated a provision of this ordinance, when a license has
been revoked for cause, no refund of license fee shall be made, and said
licensee shall not thereafter be licensed except by resolution of the City
Council duly passed.
(Ord. 370, passed 1-29-1931)
§ 12-94 CERTIFICATES.
   (a)   No person, firm or corporation, except as hereinafter provided, shall
deliver any coal or coke, which is sold by weight, unless the driver or person
actually making the delivery, shall be possessed of a certificate in writing,
or partly written and partly printed, together with a duplicate or carbon copy
thereof, which certificate shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name of licensee coal merchant and number of license.
      (2)   Address of location of office from which the fuel is delivered.
      (3)   Address of purchaser.
      (4)   Name of person actually making the delivery.
      (5)   Weight of vehicle.
      (6)   Name or identifying initials of the party who weighed it.
      (7)   Net weight of the fuel.
      (8)   Kind of fuel delivered.
      (9)   Kinds of weight of each, if fuel is mixed.
      Said certificate shall be in exact conformity with the facts and weight
of the vehicle shall have been ascertained on the day of delivery.
   (b)   No person shall engage in the delivery of fuel sold by weight except
as provided, without having at all times with him the duplicate certificates
above mentioned and he shall deliver one of said duplicate certificates to the
purchaser at the same time the delivery of the fuel is made, and shall show
such certificate, or certificates or duplicates thereof, to the Sealer of
Weights and Measures or any of his deputies, or to any police officer of the
City, whenever demanded and both the driver and the licensee for whom he is
working may be proceeded against for any violation of these provisions.
   (c)   This section shall not be applicable in those cases in which the
licensee has sold and is delivering the entire carload of fuel to one party
without reweighing or measuring the same but in those cases the licensee shall
deliver to the purchaser immediately upon delivery of such fuel a duplicate
copy of the licensee’s bill of lading or invoice of the weight, or an invoice
of the quantity of such fuel in case the sale is made other than by weight.
(Ord. 370, passed 1-29-1931)
§ 12-95 MARKING OF DELIVERY VEHICLES WITH LICENSE NUMBER.
   Each licensee shall place and maintain in a conspicuous place upon each
delivery vehicle used, the number of his license, which must be in figures not
less than three inches in height.
(Ord. 370, passed 1-29-1931)
§ 12-96 MIXING AND SUBSTITUTION OF FUELS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to substitute or
mix fuels or cause the substitution or mixing of fuel sold at retail by said
person, firm or corporation except when the fuel has been sold as such and so
indicated on the delivery certificate.
(Ord. 370, passed 1-29-1931)
§ 12-97 MISLABELING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer for
sale, deliver or advertise any coal or coke by any name which is not the true,
usual and customary name of the same without giving the true, usual and
customary name of such fuel or the name of the State from which it comes,
together with the name or number of the district, mine or seam from which it
was mined, and a description which will indicate the size and character of its
preparation.
(Ord. 370, passed 1-29-1931)
ARTICLE XIII. USE OF BUILDINGS, STANDS AND THE LIKE FOR CERTAIN BUSINESSES
§ 12-98 APPLICABILITY.
   This ordinance does not apply to the sale of oil or gasoline sold from any
filling station which has been duly licensed and does not apply to permanent
buildings which have a floor space of more than one hundred fifty (150) square
feet all of which is used for business purposes although divided into rooms
less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet in which different businesses are
conducted.
(Ord. 422, passed 6-28-1932)
§ 12-99 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use or cause to
be used, any building, part of building property, stand, shelter or equipment
for the sale of fruits, vegetables, ice cream, soft drinks, candy, magazines,
flowers, oils, merchandise, commodities or things without first having obtained
the written permit of the Chief Inspector of the Division of Safety
Inspections.
(Ord. 422, passed 6-28-1932)
§ 12-100 MINIMUM SIZES; COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS; SEWER AND WATER
CONNECTIONS.
   The said Chief Inspector shall not issue any permit for the construction,
use and/or occupation of any building, part of building, property, stand,
shelter or equipment, which is to be used for the sale of the above mentioned
articles, that has less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor area
(outside measurements) or less than twelve hundred seventy-five (1,275) cubic
feet of air space within the four walls and ceiling, nor more than 600 square
feet of floor area and must be a permanent building and shall conform in all
respects to the zoning ordinance, Building, Plumbing and Electrical Codes of
the City of Flint. Such places or businesses displaying or selling fruits,
vegetables, ice cream, soft drinks or any other food stuffs or employing three
or more persons therein shall have sewer, toilet and water connections.
(Ord. 422, passed 6-28-1932)
ARTICLE XIV. WRECKERS AND WRECKER AND TOWING SERVICE
§ 12-101 WRECKER AND TOWING SERVICE.
   The operation of a wrecker or wrecker and towing service within the limits
of the City of Flint shall be subject to the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-102 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, when used in this chapter, shall, for the purpose of
this Chapter mean:
   CRUISING. The driving of a wrecker on a street, alley or public places of
the City of Flint in a fashion or manner calculated for the purpose of
soliciting or seeking business.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a wrecker or towing vehicle for a wrecker and
towing service.
   PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation and
their legal successors.
   WRECKER. Any motor vehicle adapted to or designed for towing, transporting,
conveying or moving any and all types of vehicles which are unable to be, or
actually are not operated under their own power, such towing or transporting
being accomplished by means of lifting the towed vehicle totally or partially
off the ground.
   WRECKER OR TOWING SERVICE. A person engaged in the business of providing the
services of one or more wreckers for hire or use to tow, transport or move
motor vehicles on public streets.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-103 LICENSE REQUIRED; TERM, FEE, DISPLAY, TRANSFER.
   No person shall keep for use on the streets of the City of Flint any wrecker
or operate a wrecker or towing service on the streets of the City of Flint
without obtaining a wrecker license from the City Clerk for such purpose. Such
license shall expire on April 30 of each year. The fee for license shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. The City Clerk
shall issue a sticker or card for each licensed wrecker indicating that said
vehicle is licensed for the current term. Recorded on such sticker by the City
Clerk for the current term will be the license plate number, vehicle
identification number and the name of the vehicle owner. Each sticker or card
shall be affixed to the inside of the lower right-hand corner of the
windshield. Wrecker licenses are not transferrable from one person to another
but may be transferred from one wrecker to another upon application to the City
Clerk and the payment of a transfer fee as shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978; Ord. 3401, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 12-104 LICENSE APPLICATIONS; GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   Each application for a license shall be made upon a form to be supplied by
the City Clerk and shall be accompanied by the fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code; insurance as hereinafter required: and a report from
the Police Department that the vehicle and its equipment meet the safety
standards hereafter prescribed. The application form shall include space to
provide the full name and address of the owner of the vehicle, the name and
address of the wrecker and towing service making application for the license,
location of all vehicle storage lots, as well as the year, license number,
vehicle number for which the license is desired, a certificate by applicant of
an intent to comply with such other pertinent rules and regulations as may be
published by the Mayor. Upon receipt of the properly executed form with
required documentation, the City Clerk, in the absence of information of cause
not to do so, shall issue the license or renewal applied for.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-105 LICENSE REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR DENIAL.
   (a)   Basis for refusal to grant, suspension, revocation or denial of a
license. The City Council may refuse to grant, suspend, revoke or deny renewal
of a wrecker license for any one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   If the application thereof, or holder thereof, attempts to obtain
or obtains a wrecker license by fraud or misrepresentation; or
      (2)   If the applicant therefor, or holder thereof, shall violate any
provision of this ordinance, or shall violate other ordinances of this City, or
laws of the State of Michigan, the violations of which reflect unfavorably on
the fitness of the applicant therefor, or holder thereof, to offer wrecker
service; or
      (3)   If the applicant therefor, or the holder thereof, shall fail to
provide capable, qualified, reasonable prompt or courteous wrecker service to
the residents of and visitors to the City of Flint; or
      (4)   If the applicant therefor, or holder thereof, shall fail to take
out and maintain in full force and effect during the period for which the
license is issued, the policies of insurance as required in §
12-107.
      (5)   If the applicant therefor, or holder thereof, shall be or become
financially irresponsible or shall at any time declare bankruptcy or be
declared bankrupt.
   (b)   Procedure to grant, revoke, suspend or deny renewal of license.
      (1)   The City Clerk, upon receiving a written complaint of the Police
Department or other reliable evidence that there is cause to refuse to grant an
application, or to suspend, revoke or deny the renewal of a wrecker license,
shall not grant any application or renewal but shall notify the applicant
therefor or holder thereof, in writing and shall forward to the City Council a
full report of the matter.
      (2)   The applicant therefore, or holder of the wrecker license, may by
written request bring the matter to the attention of the City Council for a
decision on an application.
      (3)   In the case of a suspension, revocation or denial or renewal, upon
receipt of the request, or evidence to support a suspension or revocation, the
City Council shall set a date for the public hearing and shall provide at least
ten (10) days written notice of the time and place thereof to the applicant for
or holder of the wrecker license along with a written statement of the charges
or reasons for the City Clerk’s decision.
      (4)   At the public hearing, the applicant therefor, or holder of the
wrecker license, may appear with legal counsel, may present witnesses in his
behalf and may question witnesses speaking against his interest.
      (5)   A vote of a majority of the Council members present shall be
required to grant a license renewal, or to impose a suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-106 SAFETY STANDARDS.
   Each towing vehicle shall be maintained in good mechanical condition and
shall be equipped with, but not limited to the following:
   (a)   Tires not less than 7.00 × 15 in size with a tread depth of no less
than three thirty-seconds (3/32) of an inch, nor less than eight (8) ply rated
for vehicles with single rear wheels and six (6) ply rated for vehicles with
dual rear wheels.
   (b)   Fender coverings for front and rear wheels.
   (c)   Micro-lock or comparable brakes sufficient to hold the combined weight
of the towing vehicle and the vehicle towed on a grade of not less than six per
centum (6%).
   (d)   Rear brake lights, turn signals lights and running lights which shall
be visible to following traffic when such vehicles are connected to towed
vehicles, and with a red or amber rotating dome warning light having a diameter
of not less than five (5) inches, in addition to other lighting and reflectors
required by law.
   (e)   A portable fire extinguisher having a capacity of not less than two
and one-half (2-1/2) pounds (dry chemical).
   (f)   Three (3) flares capable of burning for not less than twenty (20)
minutes or three (3) portable red reflectors or three (3) flags having an area
of not less than eight (8) inches square.
   (g)   A winch with a capacity of not less than six- thousand (6,000) pounds
with a cable capable of withstanding a test of not less than ten thousand
(10,000) pounds at breaking point.
   (h)   A safety chain or chains with a capacity sufficient to hold or retain
any vehicle the towing vehicle is capable of towing or transporting and having
a total or combined length of twelve (12) feet.
   (i)   Clear and permanent identification visible at al times on both sides
of the towing vehicle showing the name under which the wrecker and towing
service is licensed, the business address and telephone number of the licensee,
such identification to be in letters not less than one and one-half (1-1/2)
inches in height.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-107 INSURANCE.
   Except as provided otherwise in this section each applicant for a wrecker
license shall file with the City Clerk:
   (a)   A certificate of insurance (e.g., garage keepers liability) covering
fire, theft, vandalism, in a minimum amount of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), except that this provision shall not apply to any applicant for a
wrecker license that does not or will not tow any vehicles owned by persons
other than the applicant. Each wrecker to which this exemption applies must
have a sign permanently affixed to it stating, “This Wrecker Is Not For Hire”;
and
   (b)   A certificate of insurance covering each licensed wrecker in an amount
of not less than twenty- five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for property damage
and for bodily injury, including death, in an amount not less than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any one person and three hundred thousand
dollars ($300,000.00) for two (2) or more persons in any one incident. The
policy or policies shall contain an endorsement requiring ten (10) days notice
to the City Clerk in the event of any material change or cancellation of
policy.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978; Ord. 2740, passed 10-22-1979)
§ 12-108 INSPECTIONS.
   Prior to the issuance of any wrecker license or renewal thereof, each
wrecker shall be inspected by the Police Department to ensure that the vehicle
is maintained and in good condition and meets the safety standards established
in §
12-106. If in the opinion of the police inspector, the brakes, cables or chains
do not appear to be adequate to fulfill the prescribed standards, he shall
require the applicant to obtain, at applicant’s expense, a written statement of
an independent specialist in the field that the item or items have been
inspected and are adequate. The inspector’s report shall be delivered to the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-109 ILLEGAL TOWING.
   Except when a wrecker and towing service or operator is acting as an agent
in a legal repossession of a vehicle it shall be unlawful:
   (a)   For any wrecker or towing service or operator to tow or otherwise move
a vehicle from any area or portion of a public street without either the
consent of the owner or custodian thereof, or authorization by the police or
other designated official of the City of Flint.
   (b)   For any wrecker and towing service or operator to block the movement
of, tow or otherwise move a vehicle from any private road, driveway or any
other privately-owned land or property within the City of Flint, except:
      (1)   When requested to do so by the owner or custodian of the vehicle;
      (2)   When specifically requested to perform the towing service by an
owner, his agent, or licensee (other than the owner, employee or agent of the
wrecker or towing service) of the private property on which said vehicle is
parked.
   (c)   For any wrecker and towing service or operator to tow or otherwise
move a vehicle from any area or portion of a public street, public or private
property within the City to a place out of the City of Flint, unless
specifically authorized to do so in writing by the City of Flint, or with the
consent of the owner of said vehicle. Provided, however, after a period of not
less than twenty-four (24) hours from the time of removal has elapsed, any such
vehicle may be moved to a storage area after notification to and approval of
the Police Department.
   (d)   For a wrecker and towing service or operator to block the movement of
any vehicle, other than when on the property of the towing service, to prevent
the movement thereof by its owner or custodian who has appeared and desires to
move the vehicle.
   (e)   For any wrecker and towing service or operator to fail to notify the
Police Department within two (2) hours after the removal of a vehicle for
impoundment, salvage or disposal from public or private property in a manner or
on a form prescribed by the Police Department.
   (f)   For the owner, operator, licensee or driver of any wrecker to drive
along any street to solicit towing, to engage in cruising, patrolling or
policing private property, or, to wait for employment by standing or parking on
public property, without first obtaining the consent of the Police Department
in writing.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-110 STORAGE AREA.
   Vehicles impounded, stored or held without the consent of the owner or
custodian of the vehicle must be protected from theft, vandalism, or damage of
any type and the wrecker and towing service operator or his employees or
operators will do nothing to render the vehicle inoperable other than to remove
the ignition key and lock the vehicle. Items of personal property in the
vehicle, but not attached or accessory thereto, will be safeguarded and must be
surrendered or delivered to the owner or custodian of the vehicle upon demand
or release of the vehicle. (The wrecker or towing service has no lien upon
personal property not attached to or accessory to the vehicle.)
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-111 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The Mayor may establish rules to authorize the Police Department to issue a
special permit to allow the removal of a disabled vehicle from within the City
of Flint to a point outside the County of Genesee in single specific instances
without requiring an inspection of and license for the wrecker.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-112 WRECKER DRIVER TO CLEAN STREETS WHEN REMOVING WRECKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any driver of a wrecker removes a motor vehicle from the scene of
an accident on a public street, it shall be his duty to simultaneously remove
and carry away from the public street all glass, metal, debris, which may have
been cast upon the street as a result of the accident or collision.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
§ 12-113 PENALTY.
   (a)   Every person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
article shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined an amount not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for a period not exceeding ninety
(90) days or both in the discretion of the Court.
   (b)   Any operation of a wrecker or towing and wrecker service without a
license as required is declared a nuisance per se and may be abated by
injunctive proceedings or any other civil remedy.
(Ord. 2655, passed 8-14-1978)
ARTICLE XV. EDUCATIONAL MUSEUM/THEME PARK
§ 12-114 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this ordinance the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivatives shall have the meanings set forth herein.
   CASH FLOW. The cash flow generated by the licensee from the annual
operations of the educational museum/theme park and is more specifically
defined in the CASH FLOW Agreement required by this ordinance.
   EDUCATIONAL MUSEUM/THEME PARK. Any building, structure, or collection or
combination thereof (including RELATED PARKING AREAS) operated for the purpose
of educating and entertaining the general public through the presentation of a
collection of exhibits, displays, amusements, shows, rides, etc., which
building, structure, collection or combination hereof occupies in excess of ten
acres and is located in an area where more than fifty percent (50%) of all the
land within five hundred (500) feet of its boundaries, excluding waterways, is
developed land. For the purposes hereof, DEVELOPED LAND includes streets,
roads, alleys, sidewalks and parks.
   RELATED PARKING AREAS. Those areas for the parking of vehicles for guests
and invitees of the educational museum/theme park which includes all such
parking areas located on the theme park site as well as those parking areas
located within a 2,500 foot radius of the external boundaries of said theme
park site and which are owned, operated or managed by the licensee or by any
other person, firm or corporation by agreement with the licensee and which are
substantially used for the parking of automobiles for the guests and invitees
of the licensee.
   STATE GRANT FUNDS. The amount of any grant from the State of Michigan to be
utilized in the construction, financing and/or operation of the educational
museum/theme park.
   SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION DATE. The date of the occurrence of the later to
occur of:
      (1)   The achievement of substantial completion under the construction
contract, the supplier contracts and other construction period documents
related thereto of the educational museum/theme park; or
      (2)   The date upon which the educational museum/theme park is ready to
open for admission to the general public.
   UDAG GRANT. Any amounts received from the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development as an Urban Development Action Grant to be
utilized in the construction, financing and/or operation of the educational
museum/theme park.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 12-115 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate an educational museum/theme
park within the City of Flint without first obtaining a license therefor. A
license for the operation of an educational museum/theme park, as provided for
herein, is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other franchise, license or
permit which might be required by any Federal, State or local law.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 12-116 SAME — TERM.
   Each license granted hereunder shall be for such term of years as is set
forth in the Cash Flow Agreement required pursuant to this ordinance.
Application for renewal of an existing license shall be made to the City Clerk
no later than 30 days prior to the termination of the existing license as set
forth in the Cash Flow Agreement required hereby. Such application for renewal
shall not be refused except as provided herein.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 12-117 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Application for a license pursuant hereto shall be made upon a form prepared
and made available by the City Clerk and shall provide:
   (a)   The name and main business address of the applicant.
   (b)   The names and main business addresses of any firm, association, or
corporation of which the applicant is a division or subsidiary.
   (c)   The names and addresses of all owners, partners, directors, officers
and resident agents of the applicant.
   (d)   The names and addresses of all stockholders of the applicant who own
twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the applicant’s stock, or of all partners
or other owners of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the applicant.
   (e)   A report of the prior calendar year’s activities for the educational
museum/theme park indicating:
      (1)   Total attendance on a daily basis;
      (2)   Number of vehicles parked in the Related parking areas on a daily
basis;
      (3)   A statement of any citations which the educational museum/theme
park may have received for alleged violation of any Federal, State or local
law, including the disposition of such citation and current status thereof; and
      (4)   An annual statement of operating expenses and income prepared by an
independent accounting or consulting firm.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 12-118 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Each year during the term of the license, as such term is set forth in the
Cash Flow Agreement, the licensee shall, on or before April 1, file with the
Clerk an annual report which will indicate all of the same information as
required in an original application for a license filed pursuant to §
12-117 above.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 12-119 ORIGINAL LICENSE FEE.
   Upon application for the original license hereunder, the applicant shall pay
a license fee which shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of
the City Code.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983; Ord. 3402, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 12-120 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   For each succeeding year during the term of this license, as the term is set
forth in the Cash Flow Agreement, the licensee shall pay an annual license fee
on or before April 1 of each year, which fee shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983; Ord. 3402, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 12-121 LICENSE FEE CREDITS.
   The licensee shall be entitled to a credit against the annual license fee
required hereby in the amount of any annual debt service payable by the
licensee to the City pursuant to any loan of UDAG funds from the City to the
licensee and in the further amount of any annual debt service payable by the
licensee to the City; and/or its agents, pursuant to any loan of funds provided
by a specific grant from the State of Michigan. Said credits shall be in that
annual amount which is sufficient to cause repayment of the entire principal
balance of the loans, together with interest thereon, within the terms thereof.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 12-122 CASH FLOW AGREEMENT.
   To the extent the license fee payable hereunder exceeds the sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), said excess amount shall be payable out of the
cash flow of the licensee, if and to the extent available. The cash flow of the
licensee shall be determined and defined pursuant to a Cash Flow Agreement
between the City and the licensee, which agreement shall at all times during
the term of a license granted hereunder be on file with the City Clerk. Said
agreement shall provide for the length of its term and shall specify those
revenues, costs and expenses of the licensee which will be utilized in
determining the licensee’s cash flow.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 12-123 INSURANCE.
   The licensee shall maintain, throughout the term of its license, liability
insurance insuring the City and the licensee with regard to all damages for
which the City and/or the licensee may be liable, including, but not limited
to, damages arising out of copyright or patent infringement and all other
damages arising out the construction, installation, maintenance, and operation
of the educational museum/theme park licensed hereby, whether or not any act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this ordinance.
Such liability insurance shall be in the following minimum amounts:
   (a)   One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death to any
one person;
   (b)   Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one incident;
   (c)   One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for all other types of liability.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
§ 12-124 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted pursuant to this article may be revoked by the City
Council for any failure to meet the reporting requirements of §
12-118; or upon the violation of any other provisions of this ordinance. Said
revocation shall be accomplished in the following manner.
   (a)   Notice of the proposed revocation and a written statement of the
charges on which it is based shall be sent to the licensee’s main business
address by certified or registered mail advising the licensee of the charges,
the proposed revocation and the licensee’s right to a hearing.
   (b)   The licensee shall have thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of
the Notice of Revocation to request a hearing before the City Council with
respect to the proposed revocation.
   (c)   Upon receipt of the licensee’s request for a hearing, the City Council
shall set a time and date for the hearing, such time and date being no later
than thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the licensee’s request for
such hearing. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be sent
to the licensee’s main business address by certified or registered mail at
least twenty (20) days prior to the date of such hearing.
   (d)   At the hearing, the City Council shall receive any and all evidence in
support of the proposed revocation and the licensee shall have an opportunity
to confront and cross-examine any witnesses testifying in support of said
proposed revocation.
   (e)   After receiving all evidence in support of the proposed revocation,
the City Council shall receive any and all evidence offered by the licensee in
opposition to the proposed revocation.
   (f)   After hearing all of the evidence and the arguments of all interested
parties thereon, the City Council shall, within thirty (30) days, decide
whether or not to revoke said license.
   (g)   The licensee shall be permitted to continue its operations throughout
the revocation hearings and for a period of twenty (20) days after the decision
of the City Council, said twenty (20) day period being the period during which
the licensee would be entitled to institute legal action in a Court of
competent jurisdiction for the purposes of setting aside or reversing the
decision of the City Council.
(Ord. 2867, passed 2-14-1983)
ARTICLE XVI. CAR WASHES
§ 12-125 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No building shall be used or erected for the purpose of operating a car wash
without first obtaining a license therefore from the City Clerk of the City of
Flint.
(Ord. 3021, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 12-126 LICENSE APPLICATION — FORM.
   Application for a car wash license shall be made to the City Clerk on a form
to be prescribed by the Clerk and shall contain the following statements under
oath:
   (a)   Full name, age, permanent residence and local address if other than
the foregoing, of the applicant.
   (b)   The name and the firm represented, if any, together with the address
of the central or district office of such firm.
   (c)   The address or location of the place within the City at which the
applicant proposes to engage in business.
(Ord. 3021, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 12-127 SAME — INVESTIGATION.
   All applications filed as provided for herein shall be referred to the
appropriate departments such as Building Inspections and Police Department for
investigation. The Department shall determine that the applicant has complied
with all requirements of the City for the operation of such a business.
(Ord. 3021, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 12-128 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEES; LICENSE PERIOD.
   Upon approval of the license by the City Council the City Clerk shall issue
a license, provided that the applicant has complied with all sections of this
article and this Code or any other laws or ordinances applying to the
applicant, and upon the payment of the fee prescribed in
Chapter 26 of this Code. All such licenses shall be for a period of one year
and shall expire on April 30 next following the date of issuance, and there
shall be no rebate for any lesser time.
(Ord. 3021, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 12-129 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, a car wash shall include all operations of
the premises:
      (1)   Where two (2) or more motor vehicles may be washed simultaneously;
or
      (2)   Where facilities are provided for coin- operated or self-service
washing of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 3021, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 12-130 REQUIREMENTS OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of any car wash to:
   (a)   Keep the premises free of debris and litter;
   (b)   Prevent excessive noise and rowdiness;
   (c)   Maintain peace, order and safety on the premises;
   (d)   Close and secure the premises, including any driveways leading into or
away from the premises at all times when not open or in operation;
   (e)   Provide regular ground maintenance of the premises;
   (f)   Provide an attendant who shall be available at all times during the
hours of operation. A sign shall be posted in a prominent place on the premises
clearly informing the public how to contact the attendant.
(Ord. 3021, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 12-131 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Car washes shall not be open or operate between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 3021, passed 12-8-1986)
ARTICLE XVII. CLUBS
§ 12-132 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No building shall be used or erected for the purpose of operating a club as
defined herein without first obtaining a license therefor from the City Clerk
of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 3235, passed 6-28-1993)
§ 12-133 LICENSE APPLICATION; FORM.
   Application to operate a club shall be made to the City Clerk on a form to
be prescribed by the Clerk and shall contain the following statements under
oath:
   (a)   Full name, age, permanent residence and local address, if other than
the foregoing, of the applicant.
   (b)   The name and the firm represented, if any, together with the address
of the central or district office of such firm.
   (c)   The address or location of the place within the City at which the
applicant proposes to engage in business.
(Ord. 3235, passed 6-28-1993)
§ 12-134 SAME — INVESTIGATION.
   All applications filed as provided for herein shall be referred to the
appropriate departments such as Building Inspections and Police Department for
investigation. The Department shall determine that the applicant has complied
with all requirements of the City for the operation of such a business.
(Ord. 3235, passed 6-28-1993)
§ 12-135 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEES; LICENSE PERIOD.
   Upon approval of the license by the City Council the City Clerk shall issue
a license, provided that the applicant has complied with all sections of this
article and this Code or any other laws or ordinances applying to the
applicant, and upon the payment of the fee prescribed in
Chapter 26. All such licenses shall be for a period of one year and shall
expire on April 30 next following the date of issuance, and there shall be no
rebate for any lesser time.
(Ord. 3235, passed 6-28-1993)
§ 12-136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article club shall be as follows:
   CLUB. An association, whether incorporated or unincorporated, the majority
of whose members shall be citizens for the promotion of some common object not
including an association organized for a commercial or business purpose, the
object of which is money profit; such an association which maintains, owns,
hires or leases a building or space in a building or which furnishes to its
members and/or guests any premises or place where members and/or guests may
engage in the drinking of alcoholic liquor for any CONSIDERATION.
   As used in this definition of CLUB, CONSIDERATION is defined to include any
fee, cover charge, the storage of alcoholic liquor, the sale of food, ice,
mixers or other liquids used with alcoholic drinks, or the furnishing of
glassware or other containers for use in the consumption of alcoholic liquor in
conjunction with the sale of food.
(Ord. 3235, passed 6-28-1993)
§ 12-137 REQUIREMENTS OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of any club to:
   (a)   Keep the premises free of debris and litter;
   (b)   Prevent excessive noise and rowdiness;
   (c)   Maintain peace, order and safety on the premises;
   (d)   Close and secure the premises, including any driveways leading to or
from the premises at all times which are not open or in operation;
   (e)   Provide regular ground maintenance of the premises.
(Ord. 3235, passed 6-28-1993)
§ 12-138 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   A club shall not be open or operate between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00
a.m.
(Ord. 3235, passed 6-28-1993)
ARTICLE XVIII. FILLING STATIONS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 12-139 PERMIT TO OPERATE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner of or in control of any
filling station in the City of Flint to operate or maintain a filling station
in such place until a permit shall have been obtained from the City Clerk by
authority of the City Council of said City, or to operate and maintain such
filling station after such permit, when granted, shall have been revoked by the
City Council. No permit for the operation of a filling station shall hereafter
be issued which would permit existence of more than two filling stations at any
street intersection having four or more corners; nor will a permit be issued
for the operation of a filing station if the site at which such operation is
proposed is within 300 feet of an existing building constructed for the purpose
of conducting such a business, whether or not said building is actually being
used for that purpose; provided, however, that any building constructed as a
filling station which has been converted to another use, shall not be
considered in determining the existence of a filling station within the
restricted area.
(Ord. 388, passed 6-1-1931; Ord. 306, passed 5-24-1939; Ord. 2128, passed 5-19-
1969)
§ 12-140 SAME — APPLICATION; REVOCATION; NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Any person desiring to operate a filling station in the City of Flint shall
make, or cause to be made, an application in writing to the City Council of
said City, signed by the owner or person in control of the place where such
filling station is proposed to be operated, for a permit to operate the filling
station, stating the location thereof, which application shall contain the
further statement that the permit, if granted, will be accepted on condition
that the same may be revoked by the City Council whenever the City Council may
deem it necessary for the public safety of the City of Flint which permit, if
granted, shall not be transferable without the consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 388, passed 6-1-1931; Ord. 306, passed 5-24-1939)
§ 12-141 SAME — SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (a)   Any person desiring to erect a filling station shall submit to the
Building Inspections Department for approval plans drawn to a scale of not less
than one-eighth of an inch to a foot, and specifications showing the location
of the filling station, driveways, pumps, air hose and all other artificial
devices to be constructed. No driveway on public property shall exceed 30 feet
in width where it crosses the public sidewalk and shall not exceed 40 feet in
width along the line of the curb. The distance from the edge of any driveway on
public property to the extension of the street property line on any adjacent
intersecting street, measured along the outer edge of the public sidewalk,
shall not be less than four feet. Whenever more than one driveway is
constructed from any one street over public property, the driveways shall be
separated by an intervening space or island located between the walk and the
curb line of not less than five feet in length adjacent to the cement curb of
not less than five feet in length adjacent to the public walk and not nearer
than one foot from the outer edge of the public sidewalk. The space shall be
enclosed with a cement curb at least four inches higher than the surface of the
driveway and the walk adjacent. When private driveways on filling station sites
are parallel to the public sidewalk, a concrete curb at least four inches high
and six inches wide, or suitable guardrail shall be constructed on private
property to separate the driveways from public property. The curb or guard rail
shall be adjacent to the street property line and shall not be less than five
feet in length and so constructed that it will prevent a car from being
serviced while standing on City property. No curb shall be cut closer than six
feet to any fire hydrant, fire alarm box or street lighting pole.
   (b)   No part of a pump foundation above grade shall be located closer than
five feet from the property line nearest parallel to it nor shall the end of a
pump base be nearer than 16 feet from the street property line at right angles
to the pump base. Pumps and other service devices shall be so placed that no
car, while being serviced, will be located on City property. No permission
shall be granted for any such filling station in any location where, by reason
of traffic conditions or fire or explosion hazard, the filling station would
imperil the public safety.
   (c)   No permit for the construction of a filling station shall hereafter be
issued which would permit existence of more than two filling stations at any
street intersection having four or more corners; nor will any permit be issued
for the construction of a filling station if the site at which the construction
is proposed is within 300 feet of an exiting building constructed for the
purpose of conducting such a business, whether or not the building is actually
being used for that purpose; provided, that any building constructed as a
filling station which has been converted to another use, shall not be
considered in determining the existence of a filling station in the restricted
area.
(Ord. 388, passed 6-1-1931; Ord. 306, passed 5-24-1939; Ord. 2128, passed 5-19-
1969)
§ 12-142 SAME — OPERATING WITHOUT DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Any filling station operated without a permit as herein provided is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and may be restrained by proceedings
instituted by the City Administrator of the City of Flint in the Circuit Court
for the County of Genesee, In Chancery.
(Ord. 306, passed 5-24-1939)
§ 12-143 SALES OF MOTOR FUELS — LICENSE REQUIRED.
   That no person, firm or corporation within the City of Flint shall sell or
offer for sale or have in his possession with intent to sell or offer for sale,
any motor fuel to be used in a motor vehicle without having first obtained a
license as herein provided.
(Ord. 1215, passed 8-5-1954)
§ 12-144 SAME — FEES; TERM; RENEWAL; REVOCATION; NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (a)   Every applicant for a license under this article shall pay to the City
Clerk a fee which shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of
the City Code. Any license so obtained shall automatically expire on the
following April 30.
   (b)   Any license issued under this article may be revoked by the City
Council for violation of this article after notice is given to the holder of
the license, and a reasonable opportunity is given for the person holding the
license to be heard. Such license shall not thereafter be renewed without the
consent of the City Council. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or
transfer such license without the consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 1215, passed 8-5-1954; Ord. 2142, passed 7-14-1969; Ord. 3403, passed 2-
8-1999)
§ 12-145 COMPLIANCE WITH FIRE CODE; TANK INSTALLATIONS.
   All filling stations shall comply with the provisions of the Fire Code. All
new installations or replacements of tanks for storing flammable liquids shall
be inspected and approved by the Chief of the Fire Department or a Fire
Department Inspector designated by the Chief of the Fire Department before
back-filling around tanks is started. An inspection fee shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City
Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code and shall be paid to the
Building Department of the City and no final approval as provided herein shall
be given until the inspection fee is paid.
(Ord. 388, passed 6-1-1931; Ord. 306, passed 5-24-1939; Ord. 1213, passed 8-5-
1954; Ord. 3403, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 12-146 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING, BUILDING, AND OTHER REGULATIONS; CORRECTION OF
UNSAFE OR UNSANITARY CONDITIONS; AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF TO CLOSE.
   All filling stations shall conform to the City of Flint zoning, building,
sanitary and electrical ordinances. All existing filling stations, if not in
safe and sanitary condition, must be made safe and/or sanitary when ordered to
do so by any of the various City department officials having jurisdiction over
said matter, within thirty (30) days thereafter, or sooner if there is
immediate danger. In case of emergency, the Fire Chief shall have the power to
close any filling station and have the tanks emptied and the same shall remain
closed until the condition creating the emergency is abated.
(Ord. 388, passed 6-1-1931; Ord. 306, passed 5-24-1939)
DIVISION 2. SAFETY REGULATIONS
§ 12-147 ACCUMULATIONS OF JUNK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a filling station in the
City of Flint to allow the accumulation of junk, as hereinafter defined, upon
the premises of the filling station. JUNK, for the purposes of this ordinance,
is defined as any waste material, refuse or any item which has ceased to have
any value for its original intended use. Nonrepairable automobiles or any
automobile parts which are no longer suitable for repair operations are hereby
declared to be JUNK for the purposes of this ordinance.
   The accumulation of JUNK on the property of a filling station is hereby
declared to be grounds for the revocation of the permit to operate provided for
in this ordinance. Such permit shall be revoked only after a public hearing and
after notification to said owner or occupant by registered mail at least seven
days prior to the hearing.
(Ord. 2067, passed 7-8-1968)
§ 12-148 INSTALLATION OF OPEN FLAME APPLIANCES.
   All open flame appliances must be installed a minimum of eight (8) feet
above the floor of any filling station, or in a separate room with opening only
to the outside of the building.
(Ord. 2051, passed 4-29-1968)
ARTICLE XIX. HOTELS AND ROOMING HOUSES
§ 12-149 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance the following definitions shall govern:
   HOTEL. A place where members of the public, whether travelers or not, are
furnished, upon application, with lodging.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any building or part of a building containing furnished
rooms, apartments or any tourist cabin at which transients or members of the
public are furnished with lodging or lodging rooms; provided, however, that
this ordinance shall not apply to a rooming house at which only roomers by the
week or month are accepted.
(Ord. 1157, passed 1-25-1954)
§ 12-150 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct a hotel or rooming house within
the limits of the City of Flint without first having obtained a license.
(Ord. 1157, passed 1-25-1954)
§ 12-151 SAME — APPLICATION; FEE; TERM.
   Every person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of conducting or
maintaining a hotel or rooming house shall make application to the City Clerk
of the City of Flint for a license for such purpose, which application shall
state the street number or location and the place where such business is to be
conducted. The fee for such license shall be as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code. Such license, when issued, shall state the street
number or location of the hotel or rooming house. All licenses shall expire on
April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 1157, passed 1-25-1954)
§ 12-152 PERSON TO BE ON DUTY AT PLACE OF REGISTRATION AT ALL TIMES;
EXCEPTIONS; NOTIFICATION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT IN CASE OF FIRE.
   In all hotels and rooming houses providing more than ten (10) beds for
occupants, the licensee shall at all times have a person (who may also be the
licensee) at the place of registration who shall be charged with the duty of
immediately notifying the Fire Department of the City of Flint when a fire
occurs therein. Any person therein who discovers such a shall immediately
notify the person on duty at the place or registration. Failure to have such a
person on duty or to so immediately notify as required shall be a violation of
this ordinance and subject the offender to penalties hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 1157, passed 1-25-1954)
§ 12-153 POSTING OF NOTICE ADVISING AS TO PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER.
   In a conspicuous place in each room and lobby of all hotels and rooming
houses, the licensee thereof shall post a plainly printed notice advising as to
the provisions of the above sections.
(Ord. 1157, passed 1-25-1954)
ARTICLE XX. OPEN PARKING STATIONS
§ 12-154 “OPEN PARKING STATION” DEFINED.
   OPEN PARKING STATION. Any open plot, piece, or parcel of land used for the
purpose of storing motor vehicles, including plots where partially enclosed
shelters are erected, and which:
      (1)   Hold out to the general public, by signs or other advertising, as
parking stations;
      (2)   Charge a fee for the storing of vehicles;
      (3)   Operate continuously throughout the major part of the calendar
year;
      (4)   Accommodate eleven (11) or more vehicles.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, form association or corporation.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937; Ord. 337, passed 10-16-1939)
§ 12-155 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall maintain or conduct an open parking station within the
limits of the City of Flint, without first having obtained a license therefor
from the City Clerk.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
§ 12-156 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Applications for licenses for open parking stations shall be made by the
person intending to operate open parking stations upon forms, drawn and
furnished by the City Clerk, and shall set forth, the name under which and the
place where the open parking station is to be operated; whether the applicant
is an individual, partnership or corporation: if an individual, the name and
business and residence address of the applicant; if a partnership, the name and
business and residence address of each partner; if a corporation, the name,
date and state under which such corporation was organized, and the amount and
value of the capital stock issued by the corporation, and the names and
business and residence addresses of the officers, managers in charge and
directors thereof; whether the premises are owned or leased by the applicant,
and if leased, the name and residence and business address of each owner or
part thereof; the number of motor vehicles which may at any one time be stored
upon the premises; the hours during which the motor vehicles may be stored; a
complete schedule of the rates to be charged for storing motor vehicles; and,
such other information as the City Clerk may deem advisable. Each application
shall be signed and verified under oath by the applicant if an individual, or
by a duly authorized agent, if a partnership or corporation.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
§ 12-157 SAME — FEES.
   The fees specified in
Chapter 26 shall be paid for licenses issued for open parking stations.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937; Ord. 1083, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 12-158 SAME — ISSUANCE; TERM; RECORDS.
   If, after an investigation by the Police Department of the City of Flint,
the City Council shall be reasonably satisfied that the applicant has a good
reputation and that the statements set forth in the application are correct,
and if the proper fee shall have been paid, the City Clerk shall issue to the
applicant a license for an open parking station, which license shall continue
in full force and effect until April 30 following the issuance of the license,
or until revoked by the City Council. The City Clerk shall keep a record of all
applications and licenses issued, indexed alphabetically and by location.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
§ 12-159 SAME — REVOCATION.
   The City Council may revoke any license if at any time:
   (a)   The licensee had knowingly made any false or materially incorrect
statement in the application.
   (b)   The licensee knowingly violates or knowingly permits or countenances
the violation of any provision of this ordinance.
   (c)   The licensee knowingly violates or knowingly permits or countenances
the violation of any provision of any penal law or ordinance regarding theft,
larceny or conversion of a motor vehicle or the operation of a motor vehicle
without the owner’s consent; whether such licensee or other person is convicted
of the offense or not.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
§ 12-160 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Each licensee shall maintain at each entrance to such open parking station a
permanently affixed sign suitable to appraise persons using such open parking
station of the name of the licensee, the hours of the day and/or night during
which such places are open for storing motor vehicles, the hours that an
attendant is on duty, the rates charged and the closing hours of such station.
Where more than one rate is charged for parking, the figures for each rate
shall be of the same size and dimensions and such figures shall measure not
less than six inches in height, and the letters and figures indicating the
closing hours shall be not less than six inches in height. All such signs shall
be subject to the approval of the Building Inspector and/or his authorized
subordinates.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937; Ord. 1381, passed 4-29-1957)
§ 12-161 DAY AND NIGHT RATES.
   Where separate rates or charges are made for day parking and for night
parking, the change in rate shall become effective at 7:00 p.m. and notice
thereof shall be posted on the signs described in § 12-160.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937; Ord. 1381, passed 5-29-1957)
§ 12-162 CLAIM CHECKS.
   At the time of accepting a motor vehicle for storing or parking in an open
parking station, the person conducting the same, his agent, servant or
employee, shall furnish to such person parking his motor vehicle a distinctive
check which shall be numbered to correspond with a coupon placed upon such
motor vehicle, which check shall contain the name and address of the place
owning or operating such open parking station and upon which shall be written,
or stamped, the date and the license number of the motor vehicle.
   The above provision shall not apply where cars are stored on a monthly fee
basis.
   It shall be unlawful to affix any parking tags on any motor vehicle so as to
obliterate in whole or in part any portion of the motor vehicle license plates
on such vehicle.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
§ 12-163 CHARGING RATES IN EXCESS OF THOSE STATED IN LICENSE APPLICATION.
   No licensee shall make any charge for storing any motor vehicle in an open
parking station in excess of that set forth in his application for license
unless and until he has:
   (a)   Notified the City Clerk in writing of the change; and
   (b)   Posted signs showing such increase.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
§ 12-164 NOTIFICATION OF CLAIMS FOR LOSS, THEFT AND THE LIKE; OWNER’S
OBLIGATIONS.
   Each licensee shall immediately notify the Chief of Police of any claim made
by reason of any loss, theft or conversion occurring upon his premises or of
any claim for damages arising from the operation of his open parking station.
   The obligations herein created of any person operating or conducting an open
parking station under the terms of this ordinance to the owner of a motor
vehicle parked therein, shall not extend beyond the regular posted hours of
attendance as posted upon such open parking station and printed upon the
regular receipt furnished to the motor vehicle owner.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
§ 12-165 LIABILITY.
   No contract, agreement, lease, receipt, rule or regulation shall exempt any
person operating an open parking station from damage or loss caused by the
negligence of such person or any employee of such person or while in the employ
of the person.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
§ 12-166 REFUSING TO ACCEPT CARS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or his agent to refuse to accept for
parking any motor vehicle driven into such station unless the capacity of the
station for the storage of cars has been reached.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937; Ord. 1381, passed 4-29-1957)
§ 12-167 SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (a)   Each licensee shall keep the sidewalks surrounding the open parking
station free from dirt, ice, sleet and snow and shall keep the sidewalks in a
safe condition for the travel of pedestrians.
   (b)   Along boundaries abutting public streets the licensee of an open
parking station or lot shall construct or erect a masonry curb eight (8) inches
in height and six (6) inches in thickness or a fence, barricade or other
structure of a permanent nature, except for exits and driveways. Said exits and
driveways shall not extend over thirty percent (30%) of the distance along the
boundary abutting a street; except, that this regulation shall not be construed
to require an exit or driveway of less than fifteen (15) feet in width;
provided further, that no such exit or driveway shall be more than thirty (30)
feet in width. No vehicle shall be parked between said curb or barricade and
the sidewalk or street line.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937; Ord. 908, passed 4-17-1950)
§ 12-168 STATIONS TO BE DUST FREE.
   Persons operating open parking stations shall keep the same free from dust
by frequent sprinkling or the use of calcium chloride or other means so that
the same shall not become a nuisance to adjacent property owners or others.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937; Ord. 908, passed 4-17-1950)
§ 12-169 SUBLETTING TO VENDORS.
   No licensee shall sublet, sublease or otherwise permit any parking lot or
portion thereof to be used by any vendor of goods, wares or merchandise or
services for the conduct of such vendor’s business unless the same is conducted
in a permanent building or structure.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937; Ord. 908, passed 4-17-1950)
§ 12-170 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to make any use for any purpose whatsoever of any motor
vehicles parked in any open parking station unless such use shall first be
expressly authorized by the owner or person having control of such vehicle.
(Ord. 156, passed 7-12-1937)
ARTICLE XXI. SOLICITOR’S, CANVASSER’S AND PEDDLER’S LICENSE
§ 12-171 DEFINITIONS.
   PEDDLER. Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older, engaged in the
business or occupation of selling or offering for sale, goods, wares,
merchandise, flowers, foods or beverages, or in the course of traveling from
one location to another, on private or public property in the City of Flint.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS. Any organization, church, body of communicants, or
group not for pecuniary profit, gathered in common membership for mutual
support and edification in piety, worship, and religious observances; or any
society, not for pecuniary profit, of individuals united for religious purposes
at a definite place, or a church- related private school, not for pecuniary
profit.
   SOLICITOR or CANVASSER. Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older
engaged in the business or occupation of taking orders or attempting to take
orders, in the course of traveling from one location to another, on private or
public property in the City of Flint, for the sale and purchase of service,
goods, wares, merchandise or any tangible property, for future delivery or for
services to be performed in the future.
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958; Ord. 1792, passed 8-17-1964; Ord. 2853, passed 9-
27-1982; Ord. 3185, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 12-172 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, canvasser or peddler to engage
in such business in the City without first having obtained a license therefor
in the manner set forth in this article. Any license so issued shall not permit
any person to engage in the business of peddling or vending any goods, wares or
merchandise in areas in which such sales are prohibited.
   (b)   However, a property owner or lessee who is licensed to sell food on
his premises may sell food on the sidewalk immediately in front of his
premises, if done in such a manner as does not obstruct the free passage of
persons along the sidewalk.
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958; Ord. 1792, passed 8-17-1964; Ord. 2837, passed 6-
14-1982; Ord. 2992, passed 5-12-1986; Ord. 3476, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 12-173 APPLICATION.
   Each person, firm or corporation desiring to obtain a license to engage in
business as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler shall make written application
therefor to the City Clerk on a form furnished by said Clerk, and at the time
of making application, shall pay to the City Clerk a sum specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code, which shall be a fee for processing the application.
   The application for license required herein shall contain the following
items together with such additional information as the City Clerk may require.
   (a)   The full name, age, permanent residence, and local address, if other
than the foregoing, of the applicant.
   (b)   The name of the firm or corporation represented, if any, together with
the address of the central or district office of such firm or corporation.
   (c)   The address or location of the place within the City at which the
applicant proposes to engage in business.
   (d)   A list or general description of the goods, wares or merchandise to be
sold or offered for sale.
   (e)   The length of time for which the license is desired.
   (f)   Whether the applicant has held a solicitor’s, canvasser’s or peddler’s
license from the City or has applied for said license previous to the present
application, together with the years in which such previous licenses were held
or applications were made.
   (g)   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where the applicant has conducted business during the previous six
months.
   (h)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately prior
to the date of filing the application, which picture shall be two inches by two
inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
identifiable manner.
   (i)   The fingerprints of the applicant.
   (j)   A statement of any convictions of the applicant of any crime or
misdemeanor or violation of any city ordinance, the nature of the offense and
the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   (k)   The affidavit of the applicant to the truth of the statements
contained in the application, signed by the applicant.
   If the business of the applicant shall require the use of weighing or
measuring devices, the applicant shall be accompanied by a certificate from the
Sealer of Weights and Measures stating that said devices have been examined and
approved.
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958; Ord. 1792, passed 8-17-1964)
§ 12-174 FEES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (a)   For each license issued under the provisions of this article, the
applicant shall pay the appropriate fee according to the schedule specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code.
   (b)   The following classes of solicitors, canvassers and peddlers shall be
exempt from the payment of license fees:
      (1)   Those engaged in interstate commerce.
      (2)   Those selling only products produced, grown or manufactured by
their own labor. This exemption does not apply to the makers of baked goods.
      (3)   Those representing retail or wholesale establishments which have
engaged in business in the City three months or longer.
      (4)   Those selling on a veterans license.
   (c)   This shall not apply to nonprofit ordinance organizations.
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958; Ord. 1458, passed 9-29-1958; Ord. 1792, passed 8-
17-1964; Ord. 3476, passed 5-29-2001)
§ 12-175 ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of such application,, together with the appropriate fee, the
City Clerk shall make such investigation as he deems necessary for the
protection of the public good. If as a result of the investigation, the
applicant’s character and business reputation are found to be unsatisfactory,
the application shall be denied. If as a result of the investigation, the
character and business reputation appear to be satisfactory, the City Clerk
shall issue a license.
   No license shall be issued to a person under eighteen (18) years of age
except that this limitation shall not apply to “street trades” as the term is
defined in Act 90 of 1978 of the Statutes of the State of Michigan, as amended.
   No applicant to whom a license has been refused or who has had a license
revoked shall make further application until a period of at least six months
shall have elapsed since the last previous rejection or revocation, unless he
can show, to the satisfaction of the City Clerk, that the reason for such
rejection or revocation no longer exists.
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958; Ord. 1499, passed 7-29-1959)
Statutory reference:
   Youth Employment Standards Act, see MCLA 409.101 et seq.
§ 12-176 ACCEPTANCE BY LICENSEE; CONDITIONS APPLYING TO LICENSE AND LICENSEE.
   (a)   Each licensee, upon receipt of such license, and in the presence of
the City Clerk, shall affix his signature thereon, accepting the license and
all the conditions of its use as stated in this article or other provisions of
this Code or other ordinances now in force or which may be enacted by the City
Council, respecting the use of such license, and agreeing to the suspension and
revocation of such license should any of the conditions be violated.
   (b)   The following conditions and regulations shall apply to the exercise
of privileges granted by licenses issued under the provisions of this article,
in addition to those set forth in other parts of this article, or this Code or
other ordinances of the City:
      (1)   No licenses shall use any weighing or measuring device in the
conduct of his business, or have in his possession any weighing or measuring
device, unless such device shall have been examined and approved by the Sealer
of Weights and Measures and in conformance with all State law requirements.
      (2)   All packages, articles and goods offered for sale must comply with
State labeling requirements (MCLA §§ 289.8101 through 289.8111).
      (3)   No licensee shall sell or offer for sale any food without first
having on file with the City Clerk’s office a food establishment license from
the Michigan Department of Agriculture or food service establishment license
from the Genesee County Health Department, whichever is necessary and/or
required.
      (4)   Every vehicle used for peddling or vending shall have a tag
attached to each side thereof, bearing the same number as the license issued to
the owner, such tag to be furnished by the City Clerk, and to be marked
“Peddler’s License.” Every owner licensed to sell or vend from a vehicle or
vehicles, shall be entitled to one helper to each vehicle.
      (5)   The City Clerk may require that the goods, wares and merchandise of
an applicant for a license hereunder be inspected by the Chief of the Fire
Department or any inspector of the Fire Department designated by the Chief of
the Fire Department to act for him, before issuing a license under the terms of
this article. The City Clerk shall refuse a license to any applicant where the
goods, wares or merchandise are found to be a fire hazard by the inspecting
official.
      (6)   Persons peddling or vending goods under this article from a vehicle
shall comply with the provisions of the traffic and parking regulations of the
City relative to vehicles; a vehicle inspection must be performed by the City
of Flint Police Traffic Division. A copy of the inspection must be on file with
the City Clerk’s office.
      (7)   All vendors licensed in accordance with this article and operating
from motorized vehicles shall operate or be permitted on the streets,
sidewalks, and other public places of the City between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m., or dusk, whichever comes first.
      (8)   All vehicles licensed in accordance with this provision must turn
off their music or sound system while transacting business and must, at all
times, comply with the applicable provisions of §§
31-70 et seq. Noise Control.
      (9)   A fine of $500.00 and/or 90 days in jail may be imposed upon the
licensee if compliance is forfeited by the licensee.
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958; Ord. 3161, passed 3-25-1992; Ord. 3476, passed 5-
29-2001)
§ 12-177 TERM.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire at midnight on April 30 of each
year, unless granted for a shorter period ending before that date or sooner
revoked by the City Administrator under the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958)
§ 12-178 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The City Administrator shall have power to suspend any license issued under
the provisions of this ordinance whenever in his judgment it is for the best
interests of the community to do so, having in mind the welfare, safety and
health of the City.
   The City Administrator may revoke any license for the same causes as above
specified, after giving the licensee reasonable notice and an opportunity to be
heard.
   Violation of the express conditions and regulations under which said license
was granted shall be sufficient cause for the suspension and revocation of said
license.
   In case the license is revoked for violation of the express conditions and
regulations under which it was granted, the amount of the fee paid therefor
shall be forfeited to the City and no licensee shall have the right to a refund
of any part of said fee.
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958)
§ 12-179 TAGS TO BE ATTACHED TO VEHICLES.
   The City Clerk shall issue to all persons making application under this
section and obtaining a license hereunder and who sell their goods from a
vehicle, a tag to be attached to their vehicle which shall be marked
“Producer’s License” and shall bear the same number as the license issued to
the owner, except veterans who shall be issued a tag marked “Veterans License.”
(Ord. 1428, passed 3-17-1958; Ord. 1792, passed 8-17-1964)
ARTICLE XXII. CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS AND THE LIKE
§ 12-180 PERMIT; COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall obtain contributions or solicit contributions or sell or
offer for sale any cookies, candy, poppies, tags, buttons, forget-me-nots,
flags, ribbons or any other such tokens, whether real or artificial, for any
charitable, patriotic or other purpose on the streets or in public places or by
a door-to-door campaign, in the City without complying with the provisions of
this article and without obtaining a permit authorized by the City Clerk for
conducting the solicitation or sale at the particular time and place involved,
and without paying a fee, which shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 598, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2710, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 2853, passed 9-
27-1982; Ord. 3430, passed 2-22-1999)
§ 12-181 SAME — APPLICATION.
   (a)   An application for a permit to obtain funds or to solicit or sell as
provided in §
12-180 shall be filed with the City Clerk not later than one (1) day prior to
the commencement of any solicitation or sale. The application shall contain the
following information, or in lieu thereof, a detailed statement of the reason
or reasons why that information cannot be furnished.
      (1)   The name, address or headquarters of the applicant.
      (2)   If applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
applicant’s principal officers and managers, and whether the organization is
part of an international, or State agency or organization, or entirely local.
      (3)   Length of time the organization has been in continuous existence in
the City.
      (4)   If the organization is a new organization, a detailed statement of
the type and kind of organization, its objectives and the service it will
render in the City or elsewhere.
      (5)   The names and addresses of the person who will be in direct charge
of conducting the solicitation or sale and of the person by whom the receipts
will be dispersed.
      (6)   The purpose for which solicitation or sale is to be made, the total
goal or amount of funds proposed to be raised thereby and the use or
disposition to be made of any receipt therefrom.
      (7)   An outline of the methods to be used in conducting the
solicitations or sale, and a description of any device, token or article to be
given or sold, together with a sample thereof, if practicable, and information
as to its place of origin and manufacture.
      (8)   The time when such solicitations or sales shall be made giving the
preferred dates for the beginning and ending thereof, and the area within the
City in which the solicitation or sale will be conducted.
      (9)   The estimated cost of the solicitation and the amount of any wages,
fees, commissions, expenses or gifts to be expended, paid or given to any
person in connection with the solicitations or sales, and the names and
addresses of the persons.
      (10)   A full statement of the character and extent of the charitable
work being done by the applicant within the City and elsewhere, if the
applicant is a charitable or nonprofit corporation.
      (11)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the City, by any
department or officer thereof.
      (12)   Attached to the application shall be the form of identification
card which shall be the credentials of all persons participating in the
solicitation or sale and the application shall show the name of the person
authorized by the applicant to sign such identification cards.
      (13)   Such other information as may be reasonably required by the City
Clerk to determine the kind and character of the proposed solicitation or sale,
and whether the solicitation or sale is in the best interest of, and not
contrary to, the public welfare.
   (b)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any permit
granted thereon, there is any change in fact, policy or method that would alter
the information given in the application, the applicant shall notify the City
Clerk in writing thereof within twenty-four (24) hours after the change.
(Ord. 598, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2710, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 2853, passed 9-
27-1982)
§ 12-182 SAME — ISSUANCE; TERM.
   (a)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit provided for in §
12-180 when the City Clerk shall find the following facts exist:
      (1)   That all of the statements made in the application are true;
      (2)   That the applicant has a good reputation for honesty and integrity,
or if the applicant is not an individual, that every officer, manager or agent
of the applicant has a good reputation for honesty and integrity;
      (3)   That the control and supervision of the solicitation or sale will
be under responsible and reliable persons;
      (4)   That the applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise.
      (5)   That the applicant has not been previously granted more than one
permit during the calendar year.
   (b)   The City Clerk shall notify the Police Department, the Chief Legal
Officer, the Chief Administrator and the City Council of any action taken under
this chapter.
   (c)   No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a period
exceeding seven (7) consecutive days for street solicitations or fourteen (14)
consecutive days for all other types of solicitations governed by this article.
   (d)   No door-to-door solicitation or sales shall occur prior to 10:00 a.m.
or after 7:00 p.m. on any day.
   (e)   If the City Clerk denies the applicant’s request for a permit under
this article, the City Clerk shall provide the applicant with written notice of
the denial and the reasons for the denial. The applicant shall have the right
to appeal to the City Council, or a committee of Council, within fourteen days
after receiving notice of denial. The appeal shall be made by writing a letter
and filing it with the City Clerk stating that an appeal from the denial of the
permit by the City Clerk is desired. The City Council, or a committee of
Council, shall convene to hear an appeal at their next regular meeting after
written notice of appeal has been filed with the City Clerk. If an appeal is
not made within the fourteen-day period the right to make the appeal is waived.
(Ord. 598, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2710, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 2853, passed 9-
27-1982; Ord. 3532, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 12-182.1 SAME — RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS EXEMPTED FROM FEE.
   A religious organization as defined by §
12-171 hereof shall be exempt from payment of any fee as may be required by
this chapter when making application for a permit to solicit contributions or
sell or offer for sale any item for any charitable, religious or other purpose
on the streets or in public places or by a door-to-door campaign in the City.
(Ord. 2853, passed 9-27-1982)
§ 12-183 SAME — SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (a)   Upon complaint with the Flint Police Department or with the City Clerk
or by any person or organization or upon his own notice, the City Clerk may
suspend the permit of any person or organization, or upon his motion, the City
Clerk may suspend the permit of any person or organization granted a permit
under this article for any of the following:
      (1)   Any material misrepresentation in the application for a permit or
any fraud in its procurement, or failure to carry out any commitment or
representation contained in the application.
      (2)   Any cause which would have prevented the granting of the permit in
the first place.
      (3)   Misconduct of the permittees, such as the violation of any of the
requirements of this article, the commission of any unlawful act prohibited by
this article, or any other law involving honesty, good faith, integrity,
responsibility or moral turpitude.
   (b)   After the City Clerk has made his findings and suspends a permit, the
holder of the permit shall have the right to appeal to the City Council, or a
committee thereof, within ten (10) days after receiving notice of such
suspension. Such appeal shall be made by writing a letter and filing it with
the City Clerk stating that an appeal from the ruling of the City Clerk is
desired. If an appeal is not made within the ten-day period the permit shall be
revoked. The City Council or a committee thereof shall convene to hear an
appeal at their next regular meeting after written notice of appeal has been
filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 598, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2710, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 2853, passed 9-
27-1982)
§ 12-184 RESERVED.
(Ord. 3533, passed 5-10-2004, repealing Ord. 598, passed 10-8-1945; and Am.
Ord. 2710, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 12-185 IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   It shall be the duty of the applicant to attach to the application filed a
proposed identification card and the name of one person, which person will be
the only person authorized to sign and issue such cards. All solicitors or
salesmen shall be furnished the cards, properly signed and dated on the person
or the solicitor or salesman. Such identification card shall be worn in plain
view at all times while the person is selling or soliciting under a permit
issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 598, passed 10-8-1945; Ord. 2710, passed 6-11-1979)
§ 12-185.1 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be prohibited for any person to do:
   (a)   Solicit for a charitable, patriotic or other nonprofit organization
unless the organization shall have previously applied for and obtained a permit
as set forth in this chapter;
   (b)   Solicit under this article after 7:00 p.m.
   (c)   Solicit without the express prior permission of an occupant, at any
residence address or apartment complex where there is posted a sign stating:
“No Solicitors or Peddlers.”
   (d)   Engage in door-to-door solicitation or sales prior to 10:00 a.m. or
after 7:00 p.m. on any day.
   (e)   No person shall solicit in the street in such a way so as to obstruct
traffic.
   (f)   Any person, association, or corporation found in violation of §§
12-180 through
12-185.1 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to
§§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 2710, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 3534, passed 5-10-2004)
ARTICLE XXIII. SALE OF ICE CREAM FROM VEHICLES AND THE LIKE
§ 12-186 LICENSE; DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   License. No person shall operate a motor vehicle, cart, pushcart, or
any other type of vehicle for the purpose of engaging in the business or
occupation of selling ice cream or ice cream products on the streets, sidewalks
and other public places of the City without a license for that purpose from the
City issued by the City Clerk.
   (b)   Definitions.
      CART or PUSHCART. All such forms of conveyance not included within the
definition of “vehicle” as used herein.
      ICE CREAM, ICE CREAM PRODUCTS or CONFECTIONS. Any frozen product made
from cream and/or milk of any kind in connection with any other substance; and
sherbet, ice or any imitation ice cream made of water, milk solids or
substances, mixtures or compounds offered for sale in imitation of or to
resemble ice cream or sherbet.
      VEHICLE. Any vehicles which are self- propelled by self-contained
mechanical means such as internal combustion engines, but shall not include
those which are propelled merely by pushing, pedaling or other means of
manpower.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 1327, passed 5-7-1956; Ord. 3073, passed 9-26-
1988)
§ 12-187 SAME — PREREQUISITE FOR ISSUANCE.
   (a)   Required. No person, firm or corporation shall operate or engage in
the business or occupation of operating any vehicle, or cart, or pushcart for
the purpose of sale of ice cream, ice cream products, or confections on the
streets, sidewalks and other public places of the City without a license for
that purpose from the City, issued as provided in this article. Before a
license may be issued for such operation of a vehicle classed as a motor
vehicle under the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, it must first be properly
licensed and equipped under the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code. A separate license
shall be necessary for each vehicle or pushcart.
   (b)   Documentation. Under this section for a vehicle classed as a motor
vehicle under the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, documentation must be provided
to the City Clerk showing that the vehicle is properly licensed and equipped
under the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, and that all persons who shall drive
said vehicle possess a current valid Michigan driver’s license.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 1892, passed 3-21-1966; Ord. 3073, passed 9-
26-1988)
§ 12-188 SAME — LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The City Council shall refuse a license when in its opinion there are
licensed a sufficient number of such vehicle or vehicles, to adequately serve
the public, or when the use of streets, sidewalks or public places congest
traffic or endanger the person or property of pedestrians or others using
streets, sidewalks or public places.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 1892, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 12-189 SAME — TERM.
   All licenses issued by the City Clerk under this ordinance, unless sooner
revoked, shall expire on April 30 each year.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 1892, passed 3-21-1966)
§ 12-190 SAME — SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under and by virtue of the authority of this ordinance
may be suspended by the City Administrator or revoked by the City Council at
any time, and a violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance or of any
traffic ordinance of the City of Flint or of State or Federal statutes, shall
be sufficient grounds for the revocation of any license issued hereunder and
shall be considered sufficient grounds for the refusal to grant a license in
the first instance.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 12-191 OPERATION OF VEHICLE BY PERSON UNDER 14 PROHIBITED.
   No minor under the age of 14 years shall operate or be permitted to operate
any vehicle licensed hereunder.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 12-192 VEHICLES NOT TO BE OPERATED MORE THAN ONE HOUR AFTER SUNDOWN;
EXCEPTION.
   No vehicle licensed in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance
shall be operated or permitted on the streets, sidewalks and other public
places of the City of Flint after one hour after sundown of any day, except
where the person operating such vehicle is over 18 years of age. The operation
of any vehicle licensed in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance on
any public street within the City of Flint shall be deemed a public nuisance
and traffic hazard, and any licensee found to be operating or permitting the
operation of his vehicle on the City streets shall be deemed contributing to a
public nuisance and traffic hazard and such action may be cause for revocation
of any license issued hereunder.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 1892, passed 3-21-1966; Ord. 2336, passed 5-
18-1972)
§ 12-193 OPERATION IN PUBLIC PARK DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The operating of any vehicle licensed in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance in any public park shall be deemed a public nuisance and any
person or persons found operating such vehicle shall be deemed a disorderly
person.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949)
§ 12-194 INSURANCE.
   Every licensee granted a license under the terms of this ordinance shall be
required to maintain insurance underwritten by a company authorized to do
business in the State of Michigan against liability to the public in the amount
of not less than $10,000.00 for one person or $20,000.00 for one accident, and
$5,000.00 against liability arising out of property damage. Such policies shall
name the City of Flint as an additional insured and shall contain therein or
have attached thereto by rider a provision that the insurer will give notice to
the City of Flint at least ten days prior to the cancellation of said policy,
in the event that the insurer should elect to cancel the same. The policy
required, or a certificate executed by the insurer certifying to the existence
of the insurance shall be filed with the City Clerk prior to the issuance of
any license or renewal thereof. Said insurance shall be continuous until
canceled, or shall expire April 30 of any year. Failure to maintain insurance
as above provided shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued
hereunder.
(Ord. 856, passed 5-2-1949; Ord. 1892, passed 3-21-1966)
ARTICLE XXIV. SIDEWALK PHOTOGRAPHERS
§ 12-195 PURPOSE.
   That the City Council of the City of Flint deems it necessary to protect its
public streets and sidewalks and to protect the public users of said streets
and sidewalks against uses and interference by private commercial businesses
operating upon the streets and sidewalks, and it appears to the best interests
of the City that such use and interference should be prohibited.
(Ord. 428, passed 6-2-1941)
§ 12-196 PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation, on any
public street or sidewalk in that portion of the City of Flint bounded on the
south by Court Street and on the north by Second Avenue, and within a radius of
two blocks east and west of Saginaw Street, to take any pictures, photographs
or snapshots by any process whatsoever of any person and offer to furnish to
such person or to any person selected by him a copy of the picture so taken for
a consideration in any form. The passing out of written, printed, typewritten
or mimeographed matter, or the giving of oral information concerning the means
by which a copy of the picture taken may be obtained is hereby defined to be an
offer to furnish a copy of the picture taken for a consideration.
(Ord. 428, passed 6-2-1941)
§ 12-197 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall not be intended to include the taking
of pictures, photographs or snapshots solely for the purpose of reproduction in
a book, newspaper, magazine or legitimate periodical, and the sale of any book,
newspaper, magazine or legitimate periodical containing any such picture
likewise shall be deemed not within the scope of this ordinance.
(Ord. 428, passed 6-2-1941)
ARTICLE XXV. FREIGHT CARRIERS
§ 12-198 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or engage in the business of operating within the
limits of the City of Flint any dray, express wagon or vehicle for hire for the
transportation of any freight or express, parcels or baggage without a license
for that purpose from the City of Flint issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 128, passed 6-6-1921)
§ 12-199 SAME — APPLICATION; FEE; ISSUANCE; DISPLAY OF LICENSE NUMBER ON
VEHICLE.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of, or in operating any such
dray, express wagon or vehicle for the carriage of freight, express, parcels,
or baggage for hire, shall before operating or engaging in such business apply
to the City Clerk for a license and shall pay to the City Clerk at the time of
making such application the sum specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code for each motor-driven vehicle, and the City Clerk shall
thereupon issue a certificate under his hand and the seal of the City to such
applicant which certificate shall be numbered, and before engaging in business
the vehicle for which such license shall be obtained shall have displayed on
each side thereof, in letters and figures not less than three inches in length,
the words: “License No.                     ;” followed by the number stated in
such certificate.
(Ord. 128, passed 6-6-1921; Ord. 1089, passed 3-24-1954)
§ 12-200 SAME — TERM.
   All licenses issued by the City Clerk under this ordinance, unless sooner
revoked, shall expire on April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 128, passed 6-6-1921)
§ 12-201 CHARGING UNREASONABLE RATES.
   No person licensed hereunder shall charge or cause to be charged an
exorbitant or unreasonable amount for any such service.
(Ord. 128, passed 6-6-1921)
§ 12-202 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to operate any such vehicle as
a drayman, expressman, or freight carrier, under this ordinance to unreasonably
refuse or neglect to transport any freight, express or baggage to any place
within the limits of the City when applied to for that purpose, and when
payment for such service shall have been tendered, or to demand or receive a
greater price or rate than that herein established, or to neglect or refuse to
display the license number as herein provided upon a vehicle, operated by him
or to park or stand such day, express wagon or other vehicle when not actually
engaged in loading or unloading freight, express or baggage, upon any public
street, lane or alley in the City of Flint, except in such places as are
designated by the Chief of Police and confirmed by the City Council.
(Ord. 128, passed 6-6-1921)
ARTICLE XXVI. TAXICABS, AND OTHER FOR-HIRE VEHICLES
DIVISION 1: IN GENERAL
§ 12-203 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   HORSE DRAWN CARRIAGE. A horse drawn vehicle operating for hire, so designed
and constructed to comfortably seat not more than six (6) adult passengers
within the interior.
   LOADING ZONE. Any portion of a street, alley or public place in the City
which has been set apart and designated as a place for taxicabs, of motor
vehicles, or other vehicles for hire, to take on or discharge passengers.
   MOTOR VEHICLES FOR HIRE. A motor vehicle having a seating capacity to
accommodate a maximum of ten (10) passengers or less and used for the
transportation of persons for hire at rates computed on an hourly basis.
   OWNER. Any person owning and operating a vehicle for hire.
   TAXICAB. A taxicab is a motor vehicle having a seating capacity to
accommodate a maximum of seven (7) or less passengers and used for the
transportation of persons for hire at rates computed on a mileage basis.
   TAXICAB COLOR CODE. A taxicab color code is a sole color or colors selected
by an owner or authorized agent to represent said taxicab service while
operating for hire.
   TAXICAB MARKING. A taxicab or motor vehicle marking means permanent,
conspicuous, painted letters no less than four inches in diameter affixed to
both front doors and the upper rear portion of the taxicab or motor vehicle for
hire, which identifies the taxicab service.
   TAXICAB or MOTOR VEHICLE FOR HIRE, CLEAR PLASTIC FRAME. An enclosure
installed in plain plastic view to display driver’s public driver’s license.
   TAXICAB ROOF LIGHT. A taxicab roof light is a functional electric light
installed on the roof of the taxicab, which while on shall represent
availability for hire.
   TAXIMETER. A mechanical instrument or device by which the charge for hire is
mechanically calculated upon which such charge shall be indicated by means of
figures.
   TAXI STAND. Any portion of a street, alley or public place within the City
which has been set apart and designated for the use of taxicabs or motor
vehicles for hire.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1493, passed 7-6-1959; Ord. 2879, passed 6-
27-1983; Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
DIVISION 2. TAXICABS
§ 12-204 TAXICAB COLOR CODE REQUIREMENT.
   (a)   All owners or authorized agents shall select a taxicab color or colors
to represent said taxicab service. No color or colors shall be duplicated. The
color or colors selected shall be designated as the owner or authorized agent’s
sole colors while operating as a taxicab service. Taxicab colors shall be
registered upon filing for an application for license to operate. No person
shall operate or permit to be operated as a taxicab, that does not comply with
the provisions of this section.
   (b)   Taxicab companies currently operating vehicles with colors other than
those authorized under this section will be allowed to continue to operate
those vehicles. All vehicles acquired after the adoption of this ordinance will
be of the color designated on the registration filed with the City Clerk’s
office.
(Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-205 TAXICAB MARKINGS REQUIRED.
   A taxicab shall have permanent, conspicuous, painted letters affixed to both
front side doors. The owner or authorized agent’s name, phone number, and cab
identification number shall appear. The letters must measure no less than four
(4) inches in diameter, and shall be highly visible to the public. Taxicab
markings shall be registered upon filing an application for license to operate.
No person shall operate or permit to be operated a taxicab, that does not
comply with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-206 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Taxicab or motor vehicles for hire shall have installed in plain public view
a clear plastic frame. This frame shall be used to enclose and display the
driver’s public license while operating for hire. The public driver’s license
granted shall contain a true photograph of the licensee, the licensee’s name,
residence, age, height, weight, color of hair, color of eyes, and his
signature. No person shall operate, or permit to be operated a taxicab, that
does not comply with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-1989: Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-207 RESERVED.
§ 12-208 PARTITION REQUIRED IN TAXICABS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab for hire
within the City unless such taxicab is equipped with a partition extending from
a point flush with the left-hand side of such taxicab across the back of the
front seat(s) to a point flush with the right- hand side of such taxi, and from
a point flush with the top of the front seat(s) to a point not more than three
(3) inches from the top of such taxicab. Such partition shall be of such
material and shall be installed so as to prevent any passenger from reaching
the driver of the taxicab from any point in the rear seat separated from the
driver by the partition.
   (b)   Taxicab companies currently operating vehicles without a partition or
a partition not in compliance with this section will be allowed to continue to
operate vehicles. All vehicles acquired after the adoption of this ordinance
shall be equipped with a partition which is in compliance with the requirements
of this section.
(Ord. 3108, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-209 TAXIMETER.
   A taxicab shall have affixed a taximeter for the computation of the charges
to be made upon a mileage basis; provided, that no taximeter shall be used for
the computation of charges unless it shall first have been inspected, tested
and approved by the Chief of Police or his designee, for which service a fee
shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept
on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code, will
be charged for each inspection. No person shall operate, or permit to be
operated, a taxicab equipped with a taximeter not having the case sealed and
the motor gears intact. Every taximeter shall be affixed so that the amount of
fare to be determined shall be plainly visible to the passengers, and after
sundown, shall be illuminated by a suitable light. Taximeter shall be examined
at least once in six (6) months by the Chief of Police or his designee, who
shall keep a record of all such inspections and approvals and disapprovals.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1666, passed 3-19-1962; Ord. 3404, passed 2-
8-1999; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-210 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR HIRING ON FIXED FEE OR CONTRIBUTION BASIS.
   No person having a motor vehicle under his or her control shall offer same
for hire on a fixed fee or contribution basis, unless licensed in accordance
with this division. Nothing in this division shall be construed as prohibiting
a “car pool.”
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1714, passed 5-6-1963; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-211 LICENSE TO OPERATE — REQUIRED.
   No person, either his or her principal, agent nor employee shall run or
operate for hire any taxicab or motor vehicle upon the streets of the City,
without first obtaining a license for that purpose.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 410, passed 3-31-1941; Ord. 2287, passed 10-
25-1971; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-212 SAME — DETERMINATION OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   No taxicab license shall be issued unless the City Council, after a hearing,
shall by resolution declare that the public convenience and necessity require
the proposed taxicab service for which application for license is made;
provided, that such declaration of public convenience and necessity shall not
be necessary:
   (a)   For the licensing of the same number of taxicabs licensed for
operation and operated under the same name and color on January 3, 1939, or the
renewal of the same number of licenses annually.
   (b)   (1)   For the renewal of licenses to the applicant for which the City
Council shall have, at any time prior to the date of application for such
renewal, made a declaration of public convenience and necessity.
      (2)   In determining where public convenience and necessity require the
licensing of such taxicabs for which applications may be made, the City Council
may take into consideration whether the demands of the public convenience and
necessity require such proposed or additional taxicab service within the City,
the financial responsibility of the applicant, the number, kind, type of
equipment, the schedule of rates proposed to be charged, the color scheme to be
used by the applicant, the increased traffic congestion and demand for
increased parking spaces on the streets of the City that may result whether the
safe use of the streets by the public, both vehicular and pedestrian, will be
preserved by the granting of the additional license, and any other relevant
facts as the City Council may deem advisable or necessary.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 410, passed 3-31-1941; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-213 SAME — HEARING.
   Within fifteen (15) days after the filing of an application for a license,
the City Council shall determine, by motion or resolution, whether a public
hearing shall be conducted relative to the granting or denial of the
application. In the event that it shall be determined that there shall be a
public hearing concerning the matter, the City Council shall cause notice to be
published in one of the leading daily newspapers of the City. The notice shall
be paid for in full by the applicant and shall set forth the fact that
application has been filed for a taxicab license, and shall contain the name of
the applicant, kind of equipment to be used and all other information from the
application that the City Council may deem necessary. The notice shall notify
all holders of existing taxicab licenses that a public meeting will be held at
a public place in the City, to be designated by the City Council, at a time not
less than five (5) days or not more than fifteen (15) days after the date of
determination to have a public hearing. The notice shall be published for three
(3) successive days. All holders of existing taxicab licenses shall be entitled
to file any complaint and protest that such holders may see fit. At the time of
the holding of the investigation and hearing with reference to whether the
public convenience and necessity require the operation of such additional
vehicle covered in the application, the City Council shall conduct its hearing
and shall have the right to call such witnesses it may deem necessary. In all
such hearings, the burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish by
clear, cogent and convincing evidence that shall satisfy the City Council
beyond a reasonable doubt that public convenience and necessity require such
operation of the vehicles for which the application has been made.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 410, passed 3-31-1941; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-214 SAME — APPLICATION.
   (a)   Application for licenses and applications for renewal of licenses for
taxicabs and motor vehicles for hire shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent upon blanks to be furnished by the City Clerk and shall contain:
      (1)   The full name, age and residence of the owner.
      (2)   The type of motor car to be used, horsepower, factory number, State
license number, the length of time that the vehicle has been in use and the
seating capacity.
   (b)   The application shall be immediately referred by the City Clerk to the
City Administrator who shall cause an investigation to be made of the fitness
of the applicant as to character and ability and an inspection of the vehicle
to be licensed, and shall transmit the application with his or her
recommendation to the City Council. If, in the opinion of the City Council, the
person making the application is a proper person both by experience and
character, and the vehicle is in a thoroughly fit condition for the
transportation of passengers and is clean and fit for such use, they may
authorize the granting of a license upon the payment of the license fee and the
filing of an insurance policy as provided in §
12-218 of this division. The licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk and
shall not be transferable.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 2010, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 2251, passed 3-
15-1971; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-215 SAME — FEE; LICENSE PLATES.
   (a)   The fee for a license under this division shall be as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code.
      When such license has been granted, the licensee shall affix in a
stationary position, near the State license plate to the taxicab or motor
vehicle for hire, small plates not exceeding six (6) inches in diameter, which
shall bear the license number of the vehicle. The design of such license plates
shall be changed annually and shall be issued by the City Clerk. Prior to the
annual expiration date of such license plate, same shall be transferable.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1071, passed 3-24-1953; Ord. 3085, passed 1-
9-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-216 SAME — ISSUANCE.
   (a)   If the City Council finds, upon its investigations or hearings, that
the public convenience and necessity justify the operation of the vehicle for
which a license is desired, it shall notify the applicant of its finding. If
the City Council then finds that the applicant is the owner and the bona fide
operator of the vehicle for which a license is desired, and that such vehicle
complies with all the provisions of this code and any other ordinance of the
City, and all the rules and regulations enacted by the City, a license shall be
issued to the applicant upon the payment of the proper license fee.
   (b)   If the City Council finds from such investigation or hearing that the
public convenience and necessity do not justify the operation of the vehicle
for which a license is desired, it shall forthwith notify the applicant of such
finding.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 410, passed 3-31-1941; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-217 SAME — GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL.
   The City Council shall refuse a license when, in its opinion, there are a
sufficient number of licensed taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire to adequately
serve the public, or when the use of the streets by additional taxicabs or
motor vehicles for hire would interfere with the public use of the streets,
congest traffic, or endanger the person or property of pedestrians or others
using the streets.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-218 INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued under this division until the applicant for a
license deposits with the City Clerk a prepaid policy or certificate of
liability insurance for each taxicab or motor vehicle for hire, for which a
license is sought. Such policy or liability insurance to be accepted and
approved by the Chief Legal Officer and issued by a company authorized to do
business in the State, indemnifying applicant in the sum of at least $100,000
for injury or death to one person or $300,000 for injury or death to more than
one person and $10,000 property damage in any one accident through the
operation of the vehicle of the applicant. The policy of insurance shall
contain a clause obligating the company issuing same to give ten (10) days
written notice before cancellation to the City Clerk. The license for the
operation of such vehicle to expire upon the lapse or termination of such
policy of insurance. Any licensee under this division may deposit with the City
Clerk, a deductible policy or certificate of liability insurance with not less
than the maximum amounts listed above, conditioned upon the licensee’s
depositing with the City Clerk a certificate of indemnity in which licensee
agrees to indemnify all persons suffering claims for personal injuries or
property damage, or both, up to the amount of the deduction mentioned in such
insurance policies; and, further conditioned upon the licensee filing with the
City Clerk an up-to-date, sworn financial statement, which shall be approved by
the City Clerk and Director of Finance as showing a sufficient net worth that,
in their opinion, will indemnify all persons suffering claims for personal
injuries or property damage, or both, up to the amount of the deduction of such
policies of insurance.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1245, passed 1-10-1955; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-219 TAXICAB RATES.
   (a)   Except for such flat rates as are specifically provided for herein,
the maximum rates to be charged and collected for services shall be computed on
a mileage basis as follows:
 
(1) For the first 1/6 mile or fraction thereof   $2.00
(2) Each additional 1/6 mile or fraction thereof $0.35
 
   (b)   For each minute of waiting time or fraction thereof, a charge may be
made not to exceed $0.33. Waiting time shall include the time when the taxicab
is not in motion beginning with the arrival at the place to which it has been
called or the time consumed while standing at the direction of the passenger,
but no charge shall be made for time lost because of efficiency of the taxicab
or its operator or time consumed by premature response to a call or for traffic
delay.
   (c)   There shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the inside of the cab
a card of a size not less than five (5) inches by six (6) inches upon which
shall be printed in plain legible type the rates of fare and the rules for
throwing the flag of the taximeter. The size, type, form and wording of the
sign shall be subject to the approval of the Chief Legal Officer and the City
Clerk. The original sign, properly approved shall be filed in the office of the
City Clerk and all signs used to comply with this section shall be exact
duplicates of the original filed.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1930, passed 8-22-1966; Ord. 2302, passed 12-
20-1971; Ord. 2441, passed 6-7-1974; Ord. 2669, passed 10-23-1978; Ord. 2768,
passed 5-12-1980; Ord. 3155, passed 1-14-1991; Ord. 3277, passed 6-13-1994;
Ord. 3458, passed 8-14-2000; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-220 MOTOR VEHICLE FOR HIRE.
   No person operating a motor vehicle for hire shall operate same within the
City other than on an hourly rate. The schedule of rates for service for such
vehicles shall be as follows: for the use of any such motor vehicle for hire
carrying two (2) or less passengers, not more than $2.00 per hour; for use of
any such motor vehicle carrying three (3) to five (5) passengers, not more than
$2.50 per hour; for the use of such motor vehicle for hire carrying more than
five (5) passengers, not more than $3.50 per hour; provided, that no charge of
less than $1.00 can be made for the use of such motor vehicle for hire for the
first one-half hour or any fraction thereof. For the use of motor vehicles for
hire when such vehicle has been used in excess of one hour, additional time
shall be charged or on the basis of quarter-hour fractions of the rate charged
for the first hour’s use of such motor vehicle. The amount charged shall be
upon an hourly basis. The time shall begin when the motor vehicle is ready at
the time and place requested by the passenger, shall continue until the
passenger has been discharged and the car shall have had time thereafter to
return to the garage or stand by the most direct route and at the maximum speed
permitted by law. The driver of a motor vehicle for hire shall give the
passenger a receipt showing the time when the trip commenced and concluded, and
shall be signed by the driver. There shall be displayed in plain public view on
each motor vehicle for hire a sign giving the rates charged by the hour.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-221 PUBLIC DRIVER’S LICENSE GENERALLY.
   (a)   No person, either owner or employee, shall drive a taxicab or motor
vehicle for hire in the City without having first obtained a license from the
City Clerk. Each applicant for a public driver’s license shall have the
following qualifications and comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   Be of the age of 18 years or over.
      (2)   Be a resident of the County for at least ninety (90) days preceding
the application or having a demonstrated knowledge of the physical layout of
the City of Flint.
      (3)   Be in good physical health, have good eyesight, not be subject to
epilepsy, vertigo, heart trouble or any infirmity of body or mind which would
render him or her unfit for safe operation of a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Be able to read and write the English language.
      (5)   Be of good moral character, clean in dress, person and language and
not addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors or drugs.
      (6)   Shall give for reference as to his good character the names and
addresses of two reputable citizens of the City of Flint.
      (7)   Fill out upon a blank form to be supplied by the office of the City
Clerk a statement giving his or her full name, present residence, place of
residence for previous five (5) years, age, height, weight, color of eyes and
hair, how long he has driven an automobile, whether he or she has ever been
convicted of a felony or misdemeanor or found guilty of the violation of any
traffic laws, whether he or she has been licensed previously as a driver or a
chauffeur, and if so when and where, whether his or her license has ever been
revoked and for what cause. The statement shall be subscribed and sworn to by
the applicant and filed with the City Clerk as a permanent record.
      (8)   Each applicant must file with his or her application two (2) recent
photographs of himself/herself of a size that may easily be attached to the
license, one (1) of which shall be attached to the license, when issued, and
one filed with the application.
   (b)   The application shall be referred to the City Administrator for
investigation and examination as to whether the applicant is worthy, capable,
of good moral character and properly qualified by experience to operate and
drive a public motor vehicle. As soon as the examination has been completed,
the City Administrator shall return the application with his or her report to
the City Council.
   (c)   Upon the approval of the application by the City Council, and upon the
payment to the City Clerk of the fee provided herein, the public driver’s
license shall be granted to the applicant by the City Clerk.
   (d)   For each new application or renewal the fee shall be as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code.
   (e)   The public driver’s license granted shall contain a true photograph of
the licensee, the licensee’s name, residence, age, height, weight, color of
hair, color of eyes, and his or her signature, and shall be conspicuously
displayed on the inside of his vehicle with a light thrown on it at night so it
may easily be seen both in the day and night time by occupants of the vehicle.
   (f)   A full and complete copy of each application filed and each license
issued together with record entries of renewals or revocations shall be kept on
file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1322, passed 4-2-1956; Ord. 2337, passed 5-
18-1972; Ord. 2834, passed 5-24-1982; Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-1989; Ord. 3783,
passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-222 RENEWAL OF PUBLIC DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Any person holding a public driver’s license may make an application for the
renewal of his or her license for the next year upon forms to be furnished by
the City Clerk entitled “Applications for Renewal of License,” which shall be
filled out with the full name and address of the applicant together with a
statement of the date upon which is his or her original license was granted and
the license number, which shall be immediately referred to the City
Administrator. Upon the return of the application with an endorsement by the
City Administrator that there have been no complaints or convictions against
the applicant during the preceding year, the City Clerk shall issue a public
driver’s license for the next year upon payment of the license fee.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1168, passed 3-8-1964; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-223 PUBLIC DRIVER’S BADGE.
   Upon the issuance of a public driver’s license there shall be delivered to
the licensee a metal badge with the license number thereon which shall be worn
on the right breast of the outer garment exposed to the public view at all
times while such person is engaged in his employment as a public driver.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-224 EXPIRATION DATE OF LICENSES.
   All taxicab licenses, licenses for motor vehicles for hire and public
driver’s licenses shall expire, unless sooner revoked, on April 30 of each
year.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-225 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council, upon conclusion of a due process hearing and by virtue of
the authority of this division, may suspend or revoke a public driver’s
license. A public driver’s license shall be revoked upon one (1) conviction of
operation under the influence of liquor, or drugs, operating while impaired,
reckless driving or careless driving. A violation of any of the provisions of
this division, or a felony conviction, shall be sufficient grounds for the
revocation of any license issued under this division and shall be considered
sufficient grounds for the refusal to grant a license in the first instance. No
owner or authorized agent shall permit a person to operate a taxicab or motor
vehicle for hire in violation of the provisions of this section. This shall be
deemed sufficient grounds for revocation of City license to operate a taxicab
or motor vehicle for hire service.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-226 INSPECTION OF TAXICABS.
   All taxicabs licensed by the City shall be subject to a minimum of two (2)
inspections per year. The time and place for the inspections shall be set by
the City Administrator at his or her convenience. The inspections shall
determine if the taxicab complies fully with all the provisions of this
division.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1884, passed 12-27-1965; Ord. 3783, passed
12-13-2010)
§ 12-227 DAILY OPERATIONS REQUIRED; ABANDONMENT OF SERVICE.
   The applicant or existing operator shall regularly and daily operate his or
her licensed taxicab during each day of the licensed year to the extent
reasonably necessary to meet the public demand for such taxicab service. Upon
complete abandonment of taxicab service for a period of ten (10) consecutive
days by an owner or operator of taxicab service, the City Council may revoke
the license covering such taxicabs of the owner or operator upon a hearing,
after not less than three (3) days notice thereof by registered mail to the
last known address of the owner or operator,
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 410, passed 3-31-1941; Ord. 2287, passed 10-
25-1971; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-228 TAXI STANDS.
   The Traffic Engineer may designate certain locations in public streets,
alleys or other public places in the City as taxi stands and that may be
created or abolished. The Traffic Engineer shall designate the number of
vehicles that shall be allowed to stand in each designated taxi stand. The
Traffic Engineer shall mark by appropriate signs the location of each taxi
stand and the maximum number of vehicles for hire that shall be parked in any
other public place for the purpose of soliciting business, except in the
designated taxi stands.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-229 LOADING ZONES.
   The Traffic Engineer may designate certain locations in the public streets,
alleys or other public places as loading zones for taxicabs and motor vehicles
for hire that may stop only for a sufficient length of time to take on or
discharge passengers. The Traffic Engineer shall mark by proper signs or other
means of identification, the points designated as loading zones.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 369, passed 5-7-1980; Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-
1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-230 CONDUCT OF OWNERS OR OPERATORS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a taxicab or motor
vehicle for hire:
   (a)   To drive any such vehicle while under the influence of liquor or to
drink any intoxicating liquor whatsoever while transporting passengers;
   (b)   To allow any such vehicle to be used for unlawful purposes or to
procure or aid in procuring any person for unlawful purposes.
   (c)   To smoke, swear or act in a boisterous manner while actually carrying
passengers in such vehicle.
   (d)   To charge more than the rates fixed in this division.
   (e)   To fail, neglect or refuse to turn in to the Department of Police
within twenty-four (24) hours all lost articles found in such vehicle.
   (f)   To drive or park such vehicle in violation of any of the terms of this
division, this Code or of any other ordinance of the City or of any State law.
   (g)   To use or permit the use of any portion of the public streets, alleys
or other public places as a taxi stand, except the portion of the streets,
alleys and other public places as shall have been set aside by the Traffic
Engineer as taxi stands.
   (h)   To fail to notify the Department of Police within twelve (12) hours of
any accident, giving the time and location of the accident, the name of any
person injured the character of injuries so far as known, and, in case of
property damage, the estimated amount of such damage.
   (i)   To travel up and down streets and alleys of the City seeking
customers, commonly called “cruising,” except that any such vehicle may seek
employment by driving through any public street or alley without stops other
than those due to obstructions in traffic, and at such a speed as not to
interfere with or impede traffic, and may pass and repass before any theater,
hall, hotel, public resort, railway station or other public gathering; provided
that after passing such public place he or she shall not turn and repass until
he or she have has gone a distance of two (2) square blocks beyond such place.
   (j)   To allow any person except the driver to ride on the front seat of any
taxicab, except when the back seat is occupied by two (2) or more persons.
   (k)   To solicit passengers for such vehicles upon the streets of the City,
except when sitting upon the driver’s seat of such vehicle and parked in a taxi
stand.
   (l)   To permit any political advertising matter or advertising matter
referring to the sale or use of alcoholic beverages, other than beer and wine,
to be placed on taxicabs. Other advertising is permitted.
   (m)   To ask or request any person to take passage in such vehicle when,
waiting to take passage on a streetcar or bus, in an established loading point
for such streetcar or bus.
   (n)   To refuse or neglect a potential occupant possessing the appropriate
fare when not already engaged, to convey any person to any place in the City in
such vehicle; and on the person being placed in such conveyance, the same shall
be driven by the most direct and safe route to the place where such person
wishes to go; provided, that it shall not be considered to require any driver
to take as a passenger any person under the influence of liquor or to justify
his or her assisting in the carrying of liquor in violation of any law or
ordinance or the using of such vehicle for any illegal purpose;
   (o)   To allow any person to wear his or her public driver’s badge received
by virtue of this division while operating any taxicab or motor vehicle for
hire, or to use the public driver’s badge of any other registered person.
   (p)   To fail to notify the Police Department of the discharge or withdrawal
of a public driver from his or her place of employment within twenty-four (24)
hours after such discharge or withdrawal occurs.
   (q)   To fail to mark conspicuously on both sides of each taxicab, or motor
vehicle for hire, the name of the company owning such vehicle.
   (r)   To fail to affix the City taxicab license plate in a conspicuous
place, as near the State license plate as practicable, such location to be
approved by the Police Department of the City.
   (s)   To transport or carry any alcoholic liquors or beverage in the vehicle
unless the owner of the alcoholic liquor or beverage is a passenger for hire in
the taxicab or motor vehicle.
   (t)   To operate a taxicab for hire while the roof light is on or with
passengers without a valid public driver’s license.
   (u)   To have faulty passenger door locks, preventing the occupants form
entering and exiting freely.
   (v)   To operate a taxicab, or motor vehicle for hire, while State or City
license plate has expired.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 1501, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 3085, passed 1-
9-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-231 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF § 12-28.
   Failure to comply with §
12-28 of this Code may result in the immediate revocation of the driver’s
taxicab or motor vehicle for hire license following a due process hearing.
(Ord. 3085, passed 1-9-1989; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
Cross-reference:
   General penalty, see §
1-7
§ 12-232 PAYMENT IN ADVANCE; REFUSAL OF PASSENGER.
   Every driver of a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire shall have the right to
demand payment of the legal fare in advance, and may refuse employment unless
so prepaid, but no such driver shall otherwise refuse or neglect to convey any
orderly person upon request, anywhere in the City, unless previously engaged or
unable to do so, and shall carry no other person than the person first
employing such vehicle, without consent of such passenger.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-233 LOITERING IN OR NEAR VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the driver or owner of a
taxicab or motor vehicle for hire standing upon the public street, to loiter
at, within or near such vehicle.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-234 NONPAYMENT OF FARE A MISDEMEANOR.
   No passenger shall fail to pay a legal fare at the time he leaves a taxicab.
(Ord. 347, passed 6-26-1930; Ord. 587, passed 6-25-1945; Ord. 3783, passed 12-
13-2010)
§ 12-235 PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR BUSES.
   (a)   No person, firm, partnership, or corporation shall operate buses on
regularly scheduled routes on the streets of the City of Flint for the purpose
of carrying public paying passengers without first providing to the City
licensing officer proof of public liability insurance covering the operation of
its vehicles in the amount of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. The
certificate of insurance must require at least thirty (30) days advance written
notice of cancellation of the coverage to the City.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to any person, firm, partnership or
corporation which operates public transit bus service primarily between the
City and other communities and uses City streets incidental to providing such
service, nor shall it apply to a motor vehicle having a seating capacity of ten
passengers or less used for the transportation of persons for hire at rates
computed on a mileage or hourly basis, as defined in §
12-6 of this Code.
(Ord. 2979, passed 2-10-1986; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-236 CONSENT OF FIRST PASSENGER REQUIRED TO CARRY ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS.
   No driver of a licensed taxicab shall carry any other person than the person
first employing the taxicab without the consent of the passenger.
(Ord. 3155, passed 1-14-1991; Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
DIVISION 3. HORSE DRAWN CARRIAGES
§ 12-237 CARD FRAME FOR LICENSE AND INSPECTION CARD.
   A card frame shall be permanently and conspicuously affixed to each horse
drawn carriage at the forward part of the passenger compartment and made
visible to all passengers. Such card frame shall contain at all times the
current horse drawn carriage driver’s license and the Police Department
inspection card.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-238 DESIGNATED ROUTES.
   A horse drawn carriage after leaving its designated starting point may pick
up and discharge passengers only at specified locations and only on a
prescribed route. Such stops and routes shall be designated by the Department
of Transportation.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-239 NUMBER PARKED AT ONE STOP.
   No more than two (2) horse drawn carriages shall be allowed to stand parked
at any one stop at any one time.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-240 TIME OF OPERATION.
   No horse drawn carriage shall operate from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. to 6:00 p.m. on weekdays.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-241 HOURS OF USE FOR EACH HORSE.
   No owner shall permit any one (1) horse to be driven more than ten (10)
hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-242 CARE OF HORSES.
   All carriage horses shall be treated in a humane manner. All carriage horses
shall also be properly diapered. An owner shall be responsible for the humane
care and treatment of his or her carriage horse, when they are under his or her
direct supervision and control. At all other times, the owner is required to
take all necessary and reasonable steps to insure the humane care and treatment
of his or her horses while under the direct supervision and control of a
licensed driver.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-243 MARKING OF HORSE.
   Each carriage horse shall be plainly and conspicuously marked by a different
number, three-fourths of an inch high, permanently branded onto its left front
hoof.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-244 INSPECTIONS.
   (a)   Each horse drawn carriage, its harness and traces shall be clean, in
good working condition and shall be inspected at least once daily by the
licensee.
   (b)   Each vehicle shall be available for inspection by the Police
Department as required by subsection (c).
   (c)   The Police Department shall cause all horse drawn carriages now, or
hereafter licensed, to be inspected at least once every six (6) months. The
date of such inspection and the signature of the person making the inspection
shall be recorded upon the inspection card in the spaces provided.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-245 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   Each licensee shall make repairs and alterations to the horse drawn carriage
as may be required by the Police Department or as is necessary to maintain
proper standards of comfort and safety.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-246 DUTIES OF DRIVERS.
   Each horse drawn carriage driver shall:
   (a)   Operate the vehicle in a safe and prudent manner;
   (b)   Keep the interior of the vehicle clean;
   (c)   Inspect the vehicle and its equipment at least once daily to determine
that it is mechanically fit and in good working order;
   (d)   Report all accidents as required by the vehicle and traffic law and
report each accident to the owner;
   (e)   Conspicuously post his or her current license in the card frame
attached to the vehicle;
   (f)   Upon request of any passenger after payment of fare, deliver a written
receipt indicating the amount of fare paid. This receipt shall become the
property of the passenger and shall not be collected or taken from him or her;
   (g)   At all times be responsible for the proper and humane care and
treatment of the horse under his or her direct supervision and control; and
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-247 PROHIBITION FOR DRIVERS.
   The driver is prohibited from doing the following:
   (a)   Solicit for or recommend any place maintained in violation of law;
   (b)   After leaving the starting point, receive additional passengers
between such starting point and the ultimate destination, or operate on any
route other than the prescribed route when such a route is designated;
   (c)   Abandon his or her vehicle, permit another to drive it for him or her,
except an apprentice, or permit any passenger to ride on the driver’s seat;
   (d)   Operate the vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquors
or drugs;
   (e)   Carry more than six (6) adult passengers in the vehicle at any one
time; or
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-248 SUSPENSION OF OPERATIONS BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall have the authority to
temporarily suspend the operation of horse drawn vehicles on the streets of the
City when conditions for such operations become unsuitable or unsafe.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-249 RULES AND REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   The City Clerk may create such forms as are necessary to carry out the
provisions of this division.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-250 EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   All licensees under this division shall expire on the thirty-first day of
March of the year following the year of issuance and shall be renewable for
each year thereafter.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-251 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or permit another to operate for hire a
horse drawn carriage within the City unless the owner shall have first obtained
a license from the City.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-252 OWNERSHIP PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be issued under this division without first establishing
ownership of a horse drawn carriage.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-253 INSPECTION PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   (a)   A vehicle shall be licensed as a horse drawn carriage only after it
and the horse have been examined and inspected, and found to comply with all
the requirements of the vehicle and traffic laws of the State, and have been
determined by the Police Department as being safe and properly equipped to
operate. The City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall refuse a license to, or
if already issued, suspend the license of any horse drawn carriage or horse
found to be unfit for operation.
   (b)   The City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall prescribe an appropriate
form of inspection card for horse drawn carriages and the manner in which such
card and the horse drawn carriage driver’s identification card shall be
displayed.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-254 INSURANCE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   (a)   Before the issuance of a license to operate a horse drawn carriage for
hire, the licensee shall file a certificate of insurance signed by a duly
authorized officer of a company authorized to write insurance in the State of
Michigan confirming that a policy of insurance has been issued and is in full
force and effect to the licensee and that the premium has been paid as
required, together with a true copy of the policy contract or certificate of
insurance.
   (b)   Such policy of insurance shall insure the licensee against loss
resulting from liability imposed by law for property damage, bodily injury or
death suffered by any person arising out of the ownership, maintenance or use
of a horse drawn carriage with minimum liability coverage exclusive of interest
and costs of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) because
of bodily injury or death of one (1) person in any one (1) accident, and
subject to said limit of one (1) person, to a limit of not less than three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) because of bodily injury to or death of
two (2) or more persons in any one (1) accident, and to a limit of not less
than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any accident.
   (c)   Such policy of insurance shall name the City of Flint as an additional
party insured.
   (d)   Such policy of insurance shall contain a provision for a continuing
liability to the amount thereof notwithstanding any recovery, and that until
the policy is revoked, as herein provided, the insurance company will not be
relieved from liability on account of nonpayment of premium, failure to renew
license at the end of the year, or any act or omission of the named insured.
   (e)   Any insurance company whose policy has been so filed pursuant to this
section may file a notice with the City Clerk’s office of its intention to
terminate and cancel such policy and give notice thereof to the named licensee,
whereupon after ten (10) days after such filing such licensee or owners shall
cease to operate or cause to be operated within the City such horse drawn
carriage, and the license issued therefor shall be automatically revoked and
liability on such policy shall cease and terminate provided, that the liability
of the insurance company therefor for any act or omission of the licensee or
owners occurring prior to the effective date of cancellation shall not be
thereby discharged or impaired.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-255 LIMITATION ON NUMBER ISSUED.
   The City Clerk shall issue no more than a total of twenty (20) horse drawn
carriage licenses at any one time.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-256 LICENSE PLATE.
   Upon the payment of the license fee the City Clerk shall issue a license to
the owner of the horse drawn carriage together with a license plate to be
securely affixed to a conspicuous and indispensable part of such horse drawn
carriage on which shall be clearly set forth the license number of such horse
drawn carriage. The license plate issued to the licensee may in the discretion
of the City Clerk, or his or her designee, be a plate of a permanent nature
with replaceable date tag attached thereto, indicating the expiration date of
the plate during each license year and the issuance of such a place with such
date tag to a person possessing such a plate, shall be deemed issuance of a
license plate. Such license plate and the replaceable date tag to be issued
from year-to-year to be attached thereto, shall be of such material, form,
design and dimension and set forth such distinguishing number or other
identification marks as the City Clerk’s office shall prescribe. The City
Clerk, or his or her designee, upon renewal of the license hereunder, may
continue the use of license plate for as many additional license years as he or
she in his or her discretion may determine, in which event he or she shall
issue and deliver to the licensee a replaceable date tag as evidence of renewal
of license, which shall be attached or affixed in such manner as he or she may
prescribe by regulation. The failure to affix or display such date tag in a
manner prescribed by the City Clerk’s office shall constitute a violation of
this section. In the event of the loss, mutilation or destruction of any
license plate or date tag issued, the owner may file such statement and proof
of facts as the City Clerk shall require with a fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) at the City Clerk’s office and the City Clerk’s office shall issue a
duplicate or substitute license plate or date tag.
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-257 DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a horse drawn carriage
within the City without having a valid horse drawn carriage driver’s license
from the City Clerk and that person has been found to comply with all the
requirements of the laws of the State and shall have been certified by the
Police Department as an authorized person to operate a vehicle.
   (b)   Each applicant for a horse drawn carriage driver’s license must meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   Have a valid State operator’s license;
      (2)   Be at least eighteen (18) years of age;
      (3)   Have good eyesight, be in good physical condition and not be
subject to any infirmity of body or mind which might render him or her unfit
for the safe operation of the vehicle;
      (4)   Be able to sufficiently speak and write the English language to
carry out the duties required of a licensed horse drawn carriage driver;
      (5)   Be clean in dress and not addicted to the use of drugs or
intoxicating liquors;
      (6)   Be a person of good character.
   (c)   Each applicant for a horse drawn carriage driver’s license shall
satisfactorily establish that he or she knows:
      (1)   The applicable traffic regulations;
      (2)   The geography of appropriate routes; and
      (3)   Has mastered the proper care, handling and driving of carriage
horses.
   (d)   The applicants shall be approved by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee after demonstrating their ability to operate a horse drawn carriage in
a safe and prudent manner, including the following:
      (1)   Understanding the proper method of fitting a harness to a horse and
hitching and unhitching a properly harnessed horse to a carriage;
      (2)   Understanding the proper handling and driving of a horse drawn
carriage;
(Ord. 3783, passed 12-13-2010)
ARTICLE XXVII. OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONES
§ 12-258 OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONES PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided in this article, no person and/or company shall
install or maintain any telephone booth, mounted telephone, or other form of
pay telephone not enclosed within the interior of a building unless it is
located on the public right-of-way and in accordance with this Code. Any
outdoor pay telephone located on property other than the public right-of-way in
violation of this article shall be removed by its owner, any person with
control over the pay telephone, or the owner of real estate on which the pay
telephone is located, within 30 days after the effective date of this article.
(Ord. 3309, passed 9-25-1995; Ord. 3786, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-259 VIOLATION OF § 12-258; PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   (a)   Any person who violates any provision of this article shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $50 and not more than $200 for each offense. If an
outdoor pay telephone is installed in violation of this article at
substantially the same location where a telephone was previously removed
pursuant to this article, any person participating in the violation shall be
fined not less than $200 and not more than $500.
   (b)   Each day that a violation of subsection (a) continues shall constitute
a separate offense. However, for the period ending six months after the
effective date of this article, no fine shall be imposed with respect to a pay
telephone unless a removal notice has been posted on the telephone pursuant to
this article.
(Ord. 3309, passed 9-25-1995; Ord. 3786, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-260 REGISTRATION.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Director of
the Department of Public Works and Utilities may issue a revocable certificate
of registration jointly authorizing the owner of real property on which a
telephone is to be located and a telecommunications company that will operate
the telephone, subject to the conditions of this section, for the installation
and maintenance of a telephone booth, mounted telephone, or other form of pay
telephone not enclosed within the interior of a building and not on the public
right-of-way, but permitted by this subsection. The certification of
registration shall create no legal rights or entitlement, and shall not be
deemed to create, any type of vested interest.
   (b)   The application for the certificate of registration shall designate a
registered agent for receiving notice under this section. Applications shall be
maintained by the City Clerk as confidential business records. The
certification shall be issued no later than 30 days after a complete
application for an eligible location is received. No certificate of
registration shall authorize installation of a telephone at a location that the
Director determines will not be in the public interest or may have a
deleterious impact on the surrounding neighborhood.
   (c)   The Director of the Department of Public Works and Utilities may issue
a certificate of registration pursuant to this section for no more than two
telephones on any zoning lot of property; provided that the number of
telephones authorized under this section for any parking lot with 200 or more
parking spaces, or for any property on which there are facilities designed for
public assembly and having a capacity for more than 10,000 persons, shall not
exceed a number determined by the Director by rule as necessary for public
convenience. No certificate of registration shall authorize a telephone
situated:
      (1)   On vacant property;
      (2)   On property on which there is situated an abandoned building;
      (3)   On property on which there is situated an establishment that has or
requires a tavern license, or that is kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public as a place that primarily sells alcoholic liquor at
retail; or
      (4)   On property on which there is a building that is used primarily for
residential purposes.
   (d)   Certificates of registration shall be issued for particular locations
identified in the application therefor. The Director of the Department of
Public Works by rule may establish and impose an application fee or an annual
registration fee, or both, for certificates of registration issued under this
section. The total amounts of the fees may not exceed an amount sufficient for
the City to recover its costs in administering this section, exclusive of costs
indirectly related to preliminary or final hearings.
   (e)   A copy of each application for a certificate of registration shall be
sent to the Council member for the ward in which the proposed telephone is to
be located not less than five days after the application is received.
(Ord. 3309, passed 9-25-1995; Ord. 3786, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-261 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever the Director of the Department of Public Works and
Utilities determines that it is not in the public interest for the telephone to
remain on private property, or that the telephone may have a deleterious impact
on the surrounding neighborhood, the Director shall initiate procedures to
revoke the certificate of registration for that telephone.
      (2)   A certification by the Council member of the ward in which the
telephone is or is to be located setting forth facts establishing that it is
not in the public interest for the telephone to remain on private property, or
that the telephone has a deleterious impact on the surrounding neighborhood,
shall be prima facie evidence that the certificate of registration is subject
to revocation or should not be issued under this section.
   (b)   Whenever the Director makes such a determination with respect to a
telephone for which a certificate of registration has been issued, the Director
shall attempt to notify the registrant of the determination by mailing a notice
to the registered agent or the registrant, and a representative of the City may
enter upon any private property and may place upon the telephone a notice
stating that the certificate of registration is subject to revocation and that
the registrant has a right to request a preliminary hearing at which the
registrant will be given an opportunity to be heard in opposition to the
revocation within seven days of the notice.
   (c)   (1)   The preliminary hearing shall be informal and shall provide the
registrant with an opportunity to address the reasons for the Director’s
preliminary determination. If no preliminary hearing is requested or if the
Director determines that there is probable cause for revocation of the
certificate of registration after the preliminary hearing, the Director shall
issue an order requiring the telephone and its appurtenances to be removed
within seven days after the order is issued pending a final determination.
Telephones that are not timely removed may be removed by a representative of
the City.
      (2)   At the preliminary and final hearing formal or technical rules of
evidence shall not apply. Evidence may be admitted if it is a type commonly
relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. The
Director may establish and impose a fee for preliminary and final hearings
conducted under this section which shall not exceed an amount sufficient for
the City to recover its costs related to the preliminary or final hearings.
   (d)   The owner of the telephone for which a determination of probable cause
for revocation of a certification of registration has been issued may contest
such determination timely removing the telephone and its appurtenances and by
filing with the Director of Public Works and Utilities a request for a final
hearing within 14 days after removal in accordance with rules promulgated by
the Director.
   (e)   If, after a final hearing, the Director determines that it is not in
the public interest for the telephone to be located on the private property, or
that the telephone had a deleterious impact on the surrounding neighborhood, or
if no timely request for a final hearing is made, the Director shall revoke the
certification of registration for the telephone.
   (f)   No certificate of registration may be issued for a telephone at a
zoning lot with respect to which a previous certificate has been revoked for a
period of one year after revocation.
   (g)   Outdoor pay telephones not lawfully installed or maintained pursuant
to this Code are hereby declared to be public nuisance subject to summary
abatement upon due notice. A representative of the City may enter upon any
private property within the City that he or she has reason to believe contains
an outdoor pay telephone in violation of this section, and may place upon the
telephone a notice that the telephone must be removed within seven days. Such
notice shall also provide that if the telephone is not removed within seven
days, a representative of the City may remove the telephone and charge the
costs of removal jointly and severally to its owner, operator, and the person
who owns or controls the real property on which the pay telephone is located.
If such telephone has not been removed within seven days, a representative of
the City may remove the telephone.
   (h)   If the costs to the City for removing telephones and their
appurtenances pursuant to this section are not paid within 30 days, the
telephone shall be deemed abandoned and may be sold or destroyed. The costs of
removing outdoor pay telephone shall be a debt to the City jointly and
severally owed by the telephone’s owner and operator, and any person who owns
or controls the real property on which the telephone was located.
(Ord. 3309, passed 9-25-1995; Ord. 3786, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-262 PLACEMENT OF PAY TELEPHONES IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (a)   The Director of the Department of Public Works and Utilities shall
have the authority to enter into contracts with one or more persons, subject to
the conditions set forth in the contract and this chapter, the privilege of
installing and maintaining pay telephones in the public right-of-way. The
Director of the Department of Public Works and Utilities may also contract for
the removal of telephones illegally installed or maintained in the public
right-of-way. Any such contract may be approved as to form and legality by the
Chief Legal Officer for the City. In the administration of this section, the
Director of the Department of Public Works and Utilities shall consult and
cooperate with all appropriate City departments. The Director may at any time
cause to be advertised a request for proposals relating to such contracts.
   (b)   Such contracts and the methods of awarding such contracts shall, to
the greatest extent possible, be designed to:
      (1)   Discourage illegal drug sales and other criminal activity that are
sometimes associated with and facilitated by pay telephones in the public
right-of- way;
      (2)   Reduce the disturbances that pay telephones may tend to promote in
residential areas;
      (3)   Reduce visual clutter in the public right- of-way;
      (4)   Reduce the unnecessary obstruction of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic;
      (5)   Ensure the availability of pay telephones where they are needed for
lawful purposes; and
      (6)   Provide adequate access to pay telephones by disabled persons; and
      (7)   Generate revenue for the City.
      In addition to those considerations, the contracts may generate revenue
for the City.
   (c)   Any contract entered into pursuant to this section shall provide that
the privileges granted by the contract are subject to the City Council’s
authority to order the removal of a pay telephone pursuant to subsection (f) of
this section. Any such contract shall also permit the City Council or the
Finance Director to require pay telephone in the public right-of-way to have
special features designed to reduce criminal activity. In addition, the
contract must provide that the Council member for the ward in which the pay
telephone is located is notified of the location of any pay telephone that is
to be situated in the public right- of-way in his or her ward pursuant to this
section. No person shall be awarded a contract under this section unless the
person has a valid certificate of service authority to provide pay telephone
service granted by the State of Michigan Public Service Commission where
required by law.
   (d)   No person may install a pay telephone in a public right-of-way on or
after the effective date of this chapter unless the installation is made
pursuant to a contract entered into under this section. Beginning as soon as
practicable after the adoption of this chapter, no pay telephone may remain the
public right-of-way other than pursuant to a contract entered into under this
section. Any telephone installed or maintained in violation of this paragraph
shall be subject to immediate removal at the owner’s expense by the City.
However, in the case of a telephone deemed to be in the public right-of-way as
a result of this amendatory chapter, no such pay telephone shall be removed
until at least seven days after a representative of the City has affixed a
notice on the telephone stating that it will be subject to removal within seven
days of the date of posting of notice. A list of the locations at which such
pay telephones are scheduled to be removed shall be made available for public
inspection at least seven days prior to the removal of the telephones on that
list.
   (e)   No later than 30 days after the effective date of this section, every
person who owns or maintains a pay telephone in the public right-of-way must
file with the Director of the Department of Public Works a list of the
locations of all such telephones owned or maintained by that person. Within ten
days of the adoption date of this section every person who maintains a pay
telephone that is considered to be in the public right-of-way as a result of
this amendatory section must filed with the Director a list of the location of
those telephones. Any pay telephone in the public right-of-way that does not
appear on such a list shall be subject to immediate removal at the owner’s
expense by the City beginning 31 days after the effective date of this section.
   (f)   The City Council may at any time after the effective date of this
chapter, if pursuant to a contract under this section, by notice order the
removal of a particular pay telephone that is in the public right-of- way. Such
a notice must identify the location of the telephone to be removed. Any pay
telephone that is not removed within 14 days after a notice for its removal is
posted shall be subject to immediate removal at the owner’s expense by the
City.
   (g)   Any pay telephone removed by the City pursuant to this section may be
reclaimed by its owner within 30 days after its removal. The owner must
reimburse the City for its removal and storage costs before any such telephone
may be reclaimed. Such costs shall also include the costs of removing any
installation ancillary to the pay telephone, and the costs of restoring the
public right-of-way to its original condition. Any telephone not so reclaimed
may be disposed of as unclaimed property. Any contract for the removal of one
or more pay telephones may include a provision, in a form subject to the
approval of the Chief Legal Officer for the City, for indemnification of the
City by the contractor against claims and liabilities arising out of
performance under the contract.
   (h)   Any person who installs or maintains a pay telephone in violation of
this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 and not more than
$200 for each offense. Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. However, for the period ending six months after the effective
date of this amendatory section, no fine shall be imposed with respect to a
telephone considered in the public right- of-way as the result of this
amendatory section unless a removal notice has been posted on the telephone
pursuant to this section, or unless the locations of the telephone appears on a
list of locations scheduled for removal made available pursuant to this
section.
   (i)   As used in this section, “pay telephone” means any publicly accessible
self-service or coin or credit card operated telephone; and “public right-of-
way” has the meaning ascribed to the term in section. For purposes of this
section, a pay telephone will be considered in the public right-of-way
beginning on the effective date of this section if any portion of the telephone
or its enclosure is situated on or projects or hangs over the public right-of-
way; or the telephone is so situated that it can be used by a person standing
on the public right-of-way.
   (j)   The Finance Director shall have the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations to implement this article.
   (k)   No provision of this article or any contract issued pursuant to this
article may be applied to any transaction in interstate commerce to the extent
that such business may not, under the Constitution and Statutes of the United
States, be made the subject of regulation by the City.
(Ord. 3309, passed 9-25-1995; Ord. 3786, passed 12-13-2010)
ARTICLE XXVIII. GARAGE/YARD SALES
§ 12-263 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   GARAGE SALE. Includes all sales entitled “garage sale,” “lawn sale,”
“attic sale,” “rummage sale,” “yard sale,” “flea market sale,” “estate sale,”
or any similar casual sale of tangible personal property that is advertised by
any means where the public at large is or can be made aware of said sale.
   (b)   GOODS. Meant to include any goods, warehouse merchandise, or other
property capable of being the object of a sale regulated under this article.
   (c)   PERSON. Includes individuals over the age of 18, partnerships,
voluntary associations and corporations.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3785, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-264 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale in the
City without first filing with the City Clerk the information specified below,
and by obtaining from the City Clerk a license to do so, this license shall be
known as a “garage sale license.” The first license shall cost $12; the fee for
the second license shall be $5.
   (b)   An applicant may request an application for a garage sale license from
the City Clerk’s office either in person, by mail, or by telephone.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3475, passed 5-29-2001; Ord. 3785, passed
12-13-2010)
§ 12-265 LICENSING.
   (a)   Such license shall be issued to any one person only twice within a 12-
month period and no such license shall be issued for more than four consecutive
calendar days. Each license shall allow the “garage sale” between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on the days that such license is in effect.
   (b)   Provided; however, that upon showing that the sale is being conducted
to sell items belonging to a recent decedent of the residence where the sale is
being held an additional license may be issued during the 12 month period. A
certified copy of the death certificate and proof of residency must be provided
at the time of application.
   (c)   Each license issued under this article must be prominently displayed
on the premises where the garage sale is conducted throughout the entire period
of the licensed sale.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3785, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-266 INFORMATION TO BE FILED.
   The information to be filed with the City Clerk, pursuant to this article
shall be as follows:
   (a)   Name of person, firm, group, corporation, association, or organization
conducting said sale.
   (b)   Name of owner of the property on which sale is to be conducted, and
consent of owner if applicant is other than owner.
   (c)   Location at which sale is to be conducted.
   (d)   Number of days of sale.
   (e)   Date, nature of any past sale.
   (f)   Relationship or connection applicant may have had with any other
person, firm, group, organization, association, or corporation conducting said
sale and the date or dates of such sale.
   (g)   Whether or not applicant has been issued any other vendor’s license by
any local, State or Federal agency.
   (h)   Sworn statement or affirmation by the person signing the application
that the information given is full and true and known by him/her to be so.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3785, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-267 SIGNS.
   (a)   Any and all signs advertising the “garage sale” shall not be erected
prior to the day preceding the start of the sale. The sign shall comply with §
50-142.7(e) of the Flint City Code.
   (b)   If City personnel are required to remove the sign, or the sign is
erected prematurely, a $10 service charge will be invoiced to the permit
holder.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3785, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-268 PERSONS AND SALE EXCEPTED.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to or affect the following
persons or sales:
   (a)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a Court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (b)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
   (c)   Any person selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which are specifically named, or described, in the
advertisement and which separate items do not exceed five in number.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3785, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-269 PENALTY.
   (a)   Any person, association, or corporation conducting any such sale
without being properly licensed or who shall violate any of the other terms and
regulations of this article, shall be guilty of a municipal civil infraction
and upon a finding of responsibility shall be fined in the amount of $100.
   (b)   Each day that the sale is conducted without license shall be a
separate violation.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3785, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-270 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Flint Police Department and the Department of Public Works’ code
enforcement officers shall have the duty of enforcing the provisions of this
article.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3785, passed 12-13-2010)
§ 12-271 SEVERABILITY.
   Every section in this article shall be considered severable and in the event
that any word, phrase, sentence, or paragraph in this article is declared
invalid, unenforceable, or unconstitutional, the declaration shall not affect
the remainder of the section or the validity of the article as a whole.
(Ord. 3436, passed 5-24-1999; Ord. 3785, passed 12-13-2010)
ARTICLE XXIX. FIREWORKS
§ 12-272 FIREWORKS; LICENSE FOR RETAIL SALES.
   (a)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, FIREWORKS shall mean a
device made from explosive or flammable compositions used primarily for the
purpose of producing a visible display or audible effect, or both, by
combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS includes Class B fireworks
and Class C fireworks.
   (b)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or expose for sale any fireworks
except in accordance with the provisions of a license issued pursuant to this
article.
   (c)   Any person over 18 years of age may apply to the City Clerk for a
license for the retail sale of fireworks at a specified location. To be
considered complete, the application for a license must include:
      (1)   A nonrefundable licensing fee of $300. This fee shall be increased
from time-to-time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City
Clerk and listed in Appendix A of the City Code; and
      (2)   A certificate of insurance in an amount to be determined by the
City Clerk, for premises, vehicle, and product liability. The City of Flint
Clerk’s office shall be listed on the insurance as certificate holder; and
      (3)   The payment of a cash bond in the amount of $300. The required cash
bond shall be increased from time-to-time by resolution of the City Council,
kept on file by the City Clerk and listed in Appendix A of the City Code. The
bond shall be returned upon the closing of the establishment unless bond
revocation is deemed appropriate by the City Clerk. Grounds for bond revocation
include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Failure to properly restore and clean the premises and immediate
surrounding area to its pre-business condition; or
         b.   The violation of any provision of this Code as it relates to the
sale, use, or possession of fireworks; or
         c.   The violation of any provision of this Code, State law, or
Federal law committed during the course of operating the business.
      (4)   Identification of the premises where fireworks are to be sold, the
location of the premises where fireworks are to be sold, the owner of the
premises, the premise owner’s written permission to sell fireworks at the
location, the location of the premises where the fireworks are to be stored,
the operator of any business located on the premises, and the person or persons
who will sell the fireworks.
   (d)   The City Clerk shall cause the proposed premises to be inspected by
the Fire Marshal of the Fire Department or other authorized officials to
determine whether it is a safe place to store and sell fireworks. The City
Clerk may also conduct an investigation of the applicant, and the owner and
operator of the premises to determine whether any grounds exist for license
denial. The application shall also be referred to the Police Department for
fingerprinting and/or investigation of the applicant.
   (e)   A complete application shall be filed with the City Clerk no later
than June 20, 2001 and by May 31 of every year thereafter, in order to engage
in the retail fireworks business for the following June and July. The City
Clerk shall grant or deny any application for a license under this section
within 45 days of the date a complete application is submitted.
   (f)   A license issued pursuant to this article may contain reasonable
record keeping requirements and such other conditions as the City Clerk shall
determine are appropriate for the health, safety and welfare of the people of
the City. Violations of any condition or of any ordinance, State law, or
Federal law may itself be grounds for revocation or denial of a license and/or
for the imposition of penalties. Violation of any condition or ordinance or
State or Federal law may serve as a basis for denial of a license in subsequent
years.
   (g)   Pounds by gross weight stored at the premises shall be in compliance
with MCLA § 750.243d; MSA § 28.440(4).
   (h)   A license issued pursuant to this article must be prominently
displayed within the premises.
   (i)   The license year shall be May 1 through July 31 of each calendar year.
   (j)   The license is not transferable to any individual, partnership,
corporation, or firm.
   (k)   Fireworks can only be sold in areas zoned for sale consistent with
Chapter 50.
   (l)   The premises of any licensed retail dealer is subject to inspection
during normal business hours without notice or probable cause by officials of
the Fire, Police and City Clerk’s office to ensure compliance with this Code.
      (1)   Any person who shall possess, use, sell, transport or offer for
sale, fireworks in violation of this Code or in violation of a permit or
license issued pursuant to this Code shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
$500 per day of violation and imprisonment not to exceed 90 days (or such other
maximum penalties as may be specified in the City Code consistent with the
Michigan Home Rule Cities Act). Nothing in this article shall preclude
additional penalties for violations of the Michigan Fireworks Act that are also
violations of this article.
      (2)   Any member of the Police Department or Fire Marshal may confiscate
any fireworks found within the City in violation of Federal or State law, or in
violation of the City Code (including any quantity of otherwise lawful
fireworks in excess of ten pounds gross weight or 100 pounds gross weight in
the case of a licensed retail dealer).
(Ord. 3473, passed 5-29-2001; Ord. 3784, passed 12-13-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning ordinances, see
Ch. 50
Statutory reference:
   Home Rule City Act, Public Act 279 of 1909, as amended, see MCLA 117.1 et
seq.
   Public Act 328 of 1931, as amended, see MCLA 750.243d
CHAPTER 13: CEMETERIES
Section
   
13-1   Designation of burial areas
   
13-2   Burial in unauthorized areas declared nuisance; abatement
   
13-3   Defacing or removing tombs and the like
   
13-4   Destroying or removing trees, flowers and the like
§ 13-1 DESIGNATION OF BURIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to bury or cause to
be buried in the ground within the limits of the City of Flint, the body of any
person, except within the following specified areas:
   (a)   Calvary Cemetery. Lands in Section 4 of Smith’s Reservation bounded on
the northerly side by Flushing Road and lands owned by Thomas W. Wolcott, on
the easterly side by lands owned by Thomas W. Wolcott, on the southerly side by
the Flint River and on the westerly side by the corporate limits of the City of
Flint, commonly known and designated as Calvary Cemetery.
   (b)   St. Michael’s Roman Catholic Cemetery. Lot 21 and that part of Lot 22
described as a strip of land 329 feet in width off the west end of Lot 22 in
“Fairgrove,” according to the recorded plat thereof, being commonly known as
St. Michael’s Roman Catholic Cemetery.
   (c)   Greek Catholic Cemetery. East three acres of Lot 22, “Fairgrove,”
according to the recorded plat thereof, commonly known as the Greek Catholic
Cemetery.
   (d)   St. Michael’s Greek Congregation of Flint Cemetery. The west three
acres of the east six acres of Lot 22, “Fairgrove,” according to the recorded
plat thereof, commonly known as St. Michael’s Greek Congregation of Flint
Cemetery.
   (e)   Jewish Cemetery. Five acres in the Northeast corner of the southwest
quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 33, Township 8 North, Range 7 East,
commonly known as the Jewish Cemetery.
   (f)   Aventine Cemetery. Lots 17 to 28, inclusive, of Block 2, East Flint,
according to recorded plat thereof commonly known as Aventine Cemetery.
   (g)   Grace Lawn Cemetery. The lands embraced in the area bounded on the
west by North Saginaw Street, on the north by the plat known as Rosemont, as
recorded; on the east by Selby Street; and on the south by the plat known as
Oak Knoll, as recorded; commonly known as Grace Lawn Cemetery.
   (h)   Avondale Cemetery.  Lands embraced within the plat of Avondale
Cemetery as recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the County of
Genesee, situated in Block 1, Lots 1 to 15 inclusive, of Block 2, and Block 3
of East Flint, according to the recorded plat thereof commonly known as
Avondale Cemetery, excepting therefrom lands conveyed to the City of Flint for
Armory purposes.
   (i)   Glenwood Cemetery. Lands embraced within the recorded plat of Glenwood
Cemetery as recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the County of
Genesee.
   (j)   Assyrian Cemetery. The south 125 feet of the east 600 feet of the
northwest quarter of Section 33, Town 8 North, Range 7 East, commonly known as
the Assyrian Cemetery, in the City of Flint, County of Genesee and State of
Michigan.
(Ord. 158, passed 11-7-1922)
§ 13-2 BURIAL IN UNAUTHORIZED AREAS DECLARED NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   The burial of the dead body of any person within the limits of the City of
Flint, except within the areas specified and described in §
13-1, is hereby declared to be and constitute a public nuisance and the Health
Officer of the City of Flint is hereby authorized and directed to prevent the
burial of the dead, except in the areas hereinbefore specified, and such
officer may apply to the Circuit Court of the County of Genesee the chancery
whenever necessary for injunctive relief to prevent such nuisance.
(Ord. 158, passed 11-7-1922)
§ 13-3 DEFACING OR REMOVING TOMBS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall within the limits of the City of Flint willfully destroy,
mutilate, deface, injure or remove any tomb, monument, grave stone, marker, or
other structure or thing placed or designed for a memorial of the dead,
intended for an ornament, or to designate any order or society or that the
deceased belonged to the Army or Navy of the United States.
(Ord. 39, passed 5-12-1900; Ord. 158, passed 11-7-1922)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MSA §§ 4.1353 and 28.619
§ 13-4 DESTROYING OR REMOVING TREES, FLOWERS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall willfully destroy, injure or remove any tree, shrub, plant
or flower in any of the cemeteries or places of burial in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 39, passed 5-12-1900; Ord. 158, passed 11-7-1922)
CHAPTER 14: CIVIL DEFENSE AND DISASTER
Section
Article I. In General
   
14-1   Approaching within two miles of fire or disaster prohibited; exception
   
14-2   Disobeying traffic control orders during fire or disaster
   
14-3   Disobeying traffic control orders during civil defense test or emergency
   
14-4   Parking in evacuation areas during civil defense tests or emergency
Article II. State of Emergency
   
14-5   Authority of Mayor to proclaim
   
14-6   Determination of existence to be in writing
   
14-7   Curfew — establishment; promulgation of orders, rules and regulations
   
14-8   Same — applicability
   
14-9   Same — modification by Council
   
14-10   Same — modification by Mayor
   
14-11   Same — publication of notice
   
14-12   Intent
   
14-13   Provisions superseded by acts of Governor
Article III. Emergency Management
   
14-14   Definitions
   
14-15   Organization
   
14-16   Emergency Management Coordinator; assistant; deputies
   
14-17   Mayor; powers; duties
   
14-18   Powers and duties of Emergency Management Coordinator
   
14-19   Powers and duties of Liaison
   
14-20   Emergency Operations Officer; power and duties
   
14-21   Volunteers; appointments; records
   
14-22   Rights of City employees
   
14-23   No governmental or private liability
   
14-24   Nonliability of persons owning or controlling real estate
   
14-25   Conflicting ordinances, orders, rules and regulations suspended
   
14-26   Violations; penalties
   
14-27   State assistance with disaster-related expenses
   
14-28   Severability
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 14-1 APPROACHING WITHIN TWO MILES OF FIRE OR DISASTER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   During a fire, or other public or private disaster, and the continuing
emergency effect thereof, it shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor
vehicle or any pedestrian to deliberately approach or be within two (2) miles
of the area of said fire or major public or private disaster unless authorized
to do so by a regular, auxiliary, or reserve police officer, or a State police
officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff, or authorized military or civilian personnel
of the State or Federal government.
(Ord. 1333, passed 6-25-1956)
§ 14-2 DISOBEYING TRAFFIC CONTROL ORDERS DURING FIRE OR DISASTER.
   During any fire or public or private disaster and continuing emergency
effect thereof, occurring within the City of Flint, it shall be unlawful for
the driver of any vehicle, or for the driver or operator of any motor bus or
any pedestrian to disobey any order relating to the control of traffic and the
congestion of streets or sidewalks within the area of necessary control of the
site of any such fire or major public or private disaster when said order is
given by a regular, auxiliary or reserve police officer, or a State police
officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff or authorized military or civilian personnel
of the State or Federal government.
(Ord. 1333, passed 6-25-1956)
§ 14-3 DISOBEYING TRAFFIC CONTROL ORDERS DURING CIVIL DEFENSE TEST OR
EMERGENCY.
   During a civil defense test or in a civil defense emergency, it shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, or for the driver or operator of any
motor bus or trolley bus or any pedestrian, to disobey any order relating to
the control of traffic given by a regular, auxiliary, or reserve police
officer, or a State police officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff, or authorized
military or civilian personnel of the State or Federal government, or any
officer or civil defense worker of any county of the State of Michigan
participating or assisting in a civil defense test or emergency involving the
City of Flint.
(Ord. 1333, passed 6-25-1956)
§ 14-4 PARKING IN EVACUATION AREAS DURING CIVIL DEFENSE TESTS OR EMERGENCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or association, to
park, cause to be parked, or allow to remain parked in a vehicle or vehicles
during a civil defense test or an emergency involving civil defense in those
areas of evacuation where parking has been prohibited by the Division of
Traffic Engineering of the Flint Police Department.
(Ord. 1333, passed 6-25-1956)
ARTICLE II. STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 14-5 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO PROCLAIM.
   During times of great public crises, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or
similar public emergency within this City, or reasonable apprehension of
immediate danger thereof, when public safety is imperiled, the Mayor may, and
is hereby authorized to, after consultation with the Mayor, the Chief Legal
Officer, the Chief of Police and the Fire Chief, or their designated
representatives, or those of said officials who are then reasonably available,
and any other Department Head deemed necessary to the consultation by the
Mayor, proclaim a state of emergency and designate the area or areas involved.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 14-6 DETERMINATION OF EXISTENCE TO BE IN WRITING.
   The determination that a state of emergency exists shall be made in writing
by the Mayor and shall be supported by written reports from the heads of those
City departments directly responsible for bringing the emergency under control.
The reports shall set out in detail the exact nature of the crisis, disaster,
rioting, catastrophe or other public emergency and shall indicate a need for
emergency measures. Such written determination and supporting reports shall be
filed with the City Clerk within a reasonable time after the state of emergency
has been declared and shall be public records.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 14-7 CURFEW — ESTABLISHMENT; PROMULGATION OF ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Following such proclamation or declaration, the Mayor may, and is hereby
authorized to, establish a curfew and he may, and is hereby authorized to,
promulgate such reasonable orders, rules and regulations in relation thereto as
he deems necessary to protect life and property or to bring the emergency
situation within the affected area or areas under control.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 14-8 SAME — APPLICABILITY.
   Such orders, rules and regulations shall indicate the area or areas of the
City which are subject to the curfew by clearly delineating the boundaries
thereof. The time period during which the curfew is in effect shall be
explicitly stated. The persons to be affected by the curfew shall also be
clearly designated.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 14-9 SAME — MODIFICATION BY COUNCIL.
   The City Council of this City, at a general or special meeting as provided
by City Charter, may by resolution amend, modify or rescind such orders, rules
or regulations promulgated by the Mayor hereunder; provided, however, that such
action by the City Council shall be by a majority of the Council members
elected.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 14-10 SAME — MODIFICATION BY MAYOR.
   In the event that the City Council has not acted pursuant to the authority
granted in §
14-9 above, such orders, rules and regulations as may have been promulgated by
the Mayor may be amended, modified or rescinded by the Mayor, from time to
time, in like manner as provided herein §§
14-5 through
14-8 of this ordinance, but shall cease to be in effect upon declaration by the
Mayor that the emergency no longer exists.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 14-11 SAME — PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   In the event curfew orders, rules or regulations are promulgated by the
Mayor and in the event such orders, rules and regulations are thereafter
amended, modified or rescinded by the City Council or by the Mayor, reasonable
notice of such orders, rules, regulations, amendments, modifications or
rescissions shall be given to the public by broadcasting over local radio and
television stations regularly broadcasting in this City or by publication in
any newspaper of general circulation in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 14-12 INTENT.
   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent to invest the Mayor,
subject only to the specific authority granted to the City Council in §
14-9, with sufficiently broad power of action in the exercise of the police
power of the City with regard to the establishment and enforcement of such
curfews to provide adequate control over persons and conditions during such
periods of impending or actual public crisis or disaster. The provisions of
this ordinance shall be broadly construed to effectuate that purpose.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
§ 14-13 PROVISIONS SUPERSEDED BY ACTS OF GOVERNOR.
   In the event that the Governor of this State shall act in any such public
emergency pursuant to the emergency powers vested in him by Public Acts 302 of
1945, as amended, or pursuant to any other valid authority and shall proclaim a
state of emergency in this City and shall promulgate orders, rules or
regulations designed to bring the emergency situation under control, the
provisions of this ordinance shall not be in effect.
(Ord. 2214, passed 5-11-1970)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency powers of Governor, see MCLA 10.31
ARTICLE III. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 14-14 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and phrases used herein are
defined as follows:
   COORDINATOR. The Genesee County Emergency Management Coordinator.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Flint.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury, or
loss of life or property resulting from a natural or human-made cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, snowstorm, ice storm, tornado,
windstorm, wave action, oil spill, water contamination, utility failure,
hazardous peacetime radiological incident, major transportation accident,
hazardous materials incident, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought,
infestation, explosion, or hostile military action or paramilitary action, or
similar occurrences resulting from terrorist activities, riots or civil
disorders.
   DISTRICT COORDINATOR. The State Police District Emergency Management
Coordinator or his/her authorized representative.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. This term shall have a broad meaning to include
preparation for, and relief from, the effects of natural and manmade disaster
as defined herein, and to include civil emergency services.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. All disaster relief forces, all agencies of the
municipal government, private and volunteer personnel, public officers and
employees, and all other persons or groups of persons having duties or
responsibilities under this ordinance or pursuant to lawful order or directive
authorized by this ordinance.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered and appointed by
the Coordinator and assigned to participate in the emergency services activity.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS OFFICER. The City of Flint Fire Chief or his/her
designee.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The Emergency Operations Plan, jointly developed
by the City of Flint and Genesee County which has been prepared under §
14-18 hereof to coordinate disaster response and recovery with the City of
Flint. The City of Flint/Genesee County Emergency Operations Plan for the
purposes of establishing eligibility for State disaster contingency fund
allocations and any other funds available.
   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS LIAISON. The City of Flint Fire Department officer
who shall act as the Deputy Coordinator to provide coordination of City
resources and response personnel with the Genesee County Emergency Management
Coordinator and the City of Flint’s Emergency Operations Officer.
   LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY. A proclamation or declaration that activates the
response and recovery aspects of any and all applicable local or
interjurisdictional emergency operations plans and authorizes the furnishing of
aid, assistance and directives under those plans.
   MAYOR. The chief elected official of the City of Flint.
   STATE OF DISASTER. An executive order or proclamation that activates the
disaster response and recovery aspects of the State, local and
interjurisdictional emergency operations plans applicable to the counties or
municipalities affected.
   STATE OF EMERGENCY. An executive order or proclamation that activates the
emergency response and recovery aspects of the State, local and
interjurisdictional emergency operations plans applicable to the counties or
municipalities affected.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-15 ORGANIZATION.
   (a)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, is hereby authorized and
directed to create an organization to prepare for community disaster utilizing
to the fullest extent the existing agencies within the municipality. The Mayor,
as executive head of the City government, shall be the Director of the
Emergency Management Forces of the City and shall be responsible for their
organization, administration and operation, working through the Coordinator and
Operations Officer.
   (b)   The organization for providing emergency management shall consist of
the following:
      (1)   An Emergency Management Coordinator, Emergency Operations Officer
and Emergency Management Liaison, and any other assistants and employees deemed
necessary and appropriate.
      (2)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all municipal
departments, boards, institutions and commissions suitable for, or adaptable to
emergency services activities may be designated by the Mayor as part of the
total emergency management forces.
   (c)   All institutions and other agencies of the City government designated
by the Mayor as emergency management forces shall cooperate with the Emergency
Management Coordinator in the formulation of the emergency operation plan, and
they shall assist the Coordinator in all matters pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-16 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR; ASSISTANT; DEPUTIES.
   (a)   The Genesee County Emergency Management Coordinator shall serve as the
City’s Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (b)   The City of Flint Emergency Operations Officer shall be the City of
Flint Fire Department Chief or his/her designee. The Operations Officer shall
direct the emergency preparedness forces of the City of Flint in accordance
with the emergency operations plan. The City of Flint Emergency Operations
Officer shall assume the duties of the Coordinator whenever he/she is
unavailable during disasters.
   (c)   The Emergency Management Liaison shall assume the duties of the
Emergency Operations Officer whenever he/she is unavailable during a disaster.
   (d)   Assistant Coordinators shall be designated to work with the
Coordinator on emergency planning matters. There shall be one Assistant
Coordinator appointed from each City department as designated by the department
head, with the approval of the Mayor, as part of the emergency management
forces.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-17 MAYOR; POWERS; DUTIES.
   (a)   The Mayor may exercise the emergency power and authority as specified
herein. Whenever a situation requires, or is likely to require, that the Mayor
invoke such power and authority, he shall as soon as reasonably expedient,
convene the Council to perform its legislative and administrative duties as the
situation demands, and shall report to the body relative to emergency
activities. Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as abridging or
curtailing the powers of the Council unless specifically provided herein. Under
the following circumstances, the Mayor may declare a state of emergency exists
in the City of Flint and may assemble and utilize the Emergency Management
Forces in accordance with the City of Flint’s Emergency Operations Plan, and
he/she may prescribe the manner and conditions of the use of such Emergency
Management Forces.
      (1)   Whenever, on the basis of information received from authoritative
sources, he/she believes that a large-scale disaster or emergency situation in
the City or State is imminent.
      (2)   During any period of disaster in the City or State and thereafter
as long as he/she shall deem it necessary.
   (b)   Whenever the Mayor deems that any condition in the City is beyond the
control of local public or private agencies or has attained or threatens to
attain the proportions of a major disaster, he/she may request the Governor to
declare a state of disaster exists therein by instructing the Coordinator to
contact the District Coordinator in accordance with Section 14 of Act 390 of
the Public Acts of 1976, as amended.
   (c)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, is hereby empowered and
has the authority:
      (1)   To appropriate and expend funds, make contracts, obtain and
distribute equipment, materials and supplies for disaster purposes.
      (2)   To provide for the health and safety of persons and property
including emergency assistance to the victims of a disaster.
      (3)   To assign and make equipment available for duty the employees,
property or equipment of the municipality relating to firefighting,
engineering, rescue, health, medical and related services, police,
transportation, construction, and similar items or services for disaster relief
purposes within or without the physical limits of the municipality.
   (d)   In the event of a foreign attack upon this State, to waive procedures
and formalities otherwise required by law pertaining to the performance of
public work, entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the
employment of permanent and temporary workers, the utilization of the volunteer
workers, rental or equipment, the purchase and distribution with or without
compensation of supplies, materials, and facilities, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds.
   (e)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall establish
procedures for the succession for government during emergencies where officials
are unavailable for exercising the powers and discharging the duties of their
respective offices.
   (f)   The Mayor, with the approval of the Council, may make regulations
permitting the Coordinator and Operations Officer to assemble and utilize the
Emergency Management Forces and provide disaster relief aid as prescribed
herein.
   (g)   When obtaining formal approvals would result in delay of relief
activity, the Mayor may, until the Council convenes, waive procedures and
formalities otherwise required pertaining to the performance of public works,
entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the employment of
temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase and distribution of
supplies, materials and facilities and expenditures of existing funds, and the
Council is also empowered to waive any such procedures and formalities.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-18 POWERS AND DUTIES OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR.
   (a)   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall be responsible for the
administration, planning and coordination of all emergency management
activities in the City. The Coordinator shall maintain liaison with County,
State and Federal authorities, and the authorities of adjacent and nearby
political subdivisions so as to insure the most effective emergency operations.
   (b)   The Coordinator’s duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Development of the City of Flint Emergency Operations Plan, and any
other appropriate disaster plans, for the immediate use of all of the
facilities, equipment, manpower, and other resources of the City for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons or property; and
protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   Coordinating the recruitment and training of volunteer personnel
and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the City for emergency
purposes.
      (3)   Through public information programs, educating the population as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of persons and property in
case of a disaster.
      (4)   Conducting practice alerts and exercises to insure the efficient
operation of the City’s emergency organization and to familiarize residents of
the City with emergency regulations, procedures, and operations.
      (5)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency or disaster relief programs.
      (6)   Negotiating with owners or persons in control of buildings or other
property for the use of such buildings or property for emergency or disaster
relief purposes, and designating suitable buildings as public shelters.
      (7)   Establishing and maintaining administrative control over a local
radiological defense program, to include emergency management preparations for
both peacetime radiation incidents and international wartime disasters.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency Management Act, see MCLA 30.401 et seq.
§ 14-19 POWERS AND DUTIES OF LIAISON.
   (a)   The Emergency Management Liaison shall be responsible for aiding in
the development of the City of Flint’s emergency management programs with the
Genesee County Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (b)   The Emergency Management Liaison’s duties shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Aiding in the development of the City Emergency Operations Plan,
and any other appropriate disaster plans, for the immediate use of all of the
facilities, equipment, manpower, and other resources of the City for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons or property; and
protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   Coordinating the recruitment and training of volunteer personnel
and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the City for emergency
purposes.
      (3)   Conducting practice alerts and exercises to ensure the efficient
operation of the City’s emergency organization and to familiarize residents of
the City with emergency regulations, procedures and operations.
      (4)   Coordinating municipal emergency management activities with those
at the County level and adjacent municipalities.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-20 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS OFFICER; POWER AND DUTIES.
   (a)   The Emergency Operations Officer, at the direction of the Mayor, shall
be responsible for directing and commanding the emergency resources of the City
so as to insure the most effective emergency operations.
   (b)   His/her duties shall include, but not be limited to, protecting and
restoring to usefulness government services and public utilities necessary for
public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-21 VOLUNTEERS; APPOINTMENTS; RECORDS.
   (a)   Each department, commission, board, or other agency of City government
may at any time appoint or authorize the appointments of volunteer citizens to
augment the personnel of the City department, commission, board, or agency in
time of emergency. Such individuals shall be enrolled as Emergency Management
Volunteers and shall be subject to the rules and regulations set forth by the
respective department, commission, board, or agency head for such volunteers.
   (b)   The Coordinator may enlist volunteer citizens to form the personnel of
an emergency service for which the City has no counterpart, or to temporarily
augment personnel of the City engaged in emergency activities. The Coordinator
shall maintain formal records of all such volunteers for workers’ compensation
purposes.   
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-22 RIGHTS OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   City employees assigned to duty as a part of the Emergency Management Forces
pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance shall retain all of the rights,
privileges, and immunities of City employees, and shall receive the
compensation incident to their employment.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-23 NO GOVERNMENTAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   This ordinance is an exercise of the City by its governmental functions for
the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare. As such,
neither the City nor agents and representatives of the City, nor any
individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, nor trustee,
nor any of the agents thereof acting in good faith carrying out, complying
with, or attempting to comply with its ordinance shall be liable for any damage
sustained to persons or property as a result of such activity.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-24 NONLIABILITY OF PERSONS OWNING OR CONTROLLING REAL ESTATE.
   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the City the right to inspect,
designate and use the whole or any part of such real estate or premises for the
purpose of sheltering persons during a disaster or during an authorized
practice disaster exercise, shall not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises under such
license, privilege or other permission, or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-25 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS SUSPENDED.
   At all times when orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this ordinance shall be in effect, they shall supersede all other
existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations, insofar as the latter may
be inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-26 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder or delay
any Emergency Management Forces in the enforcement or accomplishment of any
rule or regulation issued pursuant to this article, or to do any act forbidden
by any rule or regulation issued pursuant to the authority contained in this
article. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or other means of identification as a member of Emergency
Management Forces of the City of Flint unless authority to do so has been
granted to such person by proper officials. Convictions for violations of the
provisions of this article shall be punishable as provided in § 1-7 of this
Code.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-27 STATE ASSISTANCE WITH DISASTER-RELATED EXPENSES.
   The City of Flint may establish any necessary accounts to provide for State
assistance with disaster related expenses under provisions of Public Act 390 of
the Michigan Public Acts of 1976, as amended.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
§ 14-28 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, clause or provision of this ordinance be declared by the
courts to be invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not affect the
validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof, other than the
section, clause or provision so declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 3176, passed 8-10-1991)
CHAPTER 15: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
Section
Article I. In General
   
15-1   Definitions
   
15-2   Enforcement
   
15-3   Rights reserved to City
   
15-4   Copies of franchisee’s communications with regulatory agencies to be
submitted to City Clerk
   
15-5   Liability and indemnification
   
15-6   Compliance with regulations of Federal Communications Commission
   
15-7   Equal employment opportunity
Article II. Franchises
   
15-8   Required
   
15-9   Limitations
   
15-10   Term; refusal to grant renewal
   
15-11   Applications
   
15-12   Approval procedure
   
15-13   Franchise fee
   
15-14   Transfer
   
15-15   Reserved
   
15-16   Revocation; hearing
Article III. Installations and Facilities
   
15-17   Construction generally; lease, rental
   
15-18   Equipment location; alteration of streets, trees and the like
   
15-19   Construction, use of poles and the like
   
15-20   Safety requirements
   
15-21   Annual report
Article IV. Programming; Service; Rates
   
15-22   Signal quality
   
15-23   Color television
   
15-24   Program alteration
   
15-25   System operation and maintenance generally
   
15-26   Emergency programming
   15-27 – 15-32   Reserved
   
15-33   Electronic surveillance
   
15-34   Access
   
15-35   Uniformity of rates and service
Article V. Telecommunications Advisory Commission
   
15-36   Composition; qualifications of members; terms of office
   
15-37   Members — appointed
   
15-38   Same — compensation
   
15-39   Vacancies
   
15-40   Meetings
   
15-41   Rules of procedure
   
15-42   Duties
   
15-43   Expenses
Article VI. Cable    Rate Regulation
   
15-44   Rate regulation
Article VII. Severability and Conflict
   
15-46   Severability
   
15-47   Conflicting provisions
Article VIII. Metropolitan Telecommunications Act
   
15-63   Conflict
   
15-64   Purpose
   
15-64.1   Definitions
   
15-65   Permit required
   
15-66   Issuance of permit
   
15-67   Construction/engineering permit
   
15-68   Conduit or utility poles
   
15-69   Route maps
   
15-70   Repair of damage
   
15-71   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
15-72   Modification of existing fees
   
15-73   Savings clause
   
15-74   Use of funds
   
15-75   Annual report
   
15-76   Cable television operators
   
15-77   Existing rights
   
15-78   Compliance
   
15-79   Reservation of police powers
   
15-80   Authorized city officials
   
15-81   Municipal civil infractions
   
15-82   Severability
   
15-83   Repeal
Article IX. Video Service Provider Right-of-Way Management
   
15-84   Purpose
   
15-85   Consistent interpretation
   
15-86   Definitions
   
15-87   Applicability to permittees
   
15-88   Contacts, maps and plans
   
15-89   Use of public right-of-way
   
15-90   Indemnification
   
15-91   Insurance
   
15-92   Performance bond or letter of credit
   
15-93   Removal
   
15-94   Other items
   
15-95   Repealer
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 15-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended, 47
U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., and as that act may be amended from time to time after
the effective date of this ordinance.
   CABLE SERVICE. Any service that is a CABLE SERVICE as that term is defined
in the Cable Act.
   CABLE SYSTEM. Any facility or system that is a CABLE SYSTEM as that term is
defined in the Cable Act. In addition, an open video system, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 573, is also a CABLE SYSTEM within the meaning of this chapter to the
maximum extent permitted by law.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The nonexclusive agreement between the City and a
franchisee containing terms and conditions under which the system shall be
operated. The FRANCHISE AGREEMENT may contain the terms allowed by law and must
contain those clauses required by law.
   FRANCHISEE. Any person or entity granted a franchise pursuant to this
Chapter and its lawful and approved successor, transferee or assignee.
   GROSS REVENUES. All revenues derived from the operation of a cable system to
provide cable services, determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. This definition shall be construed as broadly as
permitted by the Cable Act or any other applicable law.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who lawfully receives a service provided by a
franchisee’s cable system, and does not further distribute the service(s).
   SUBSCRIBER SERVICE DROP. Each extension wiring from the franchisee’s
distribution lines to a subscriber’s building.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY COMMISSION. The research, review and
recommendation agency established by this Chapter and is also referred to as
the “Commission.”
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Cable communications; purposes, see 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.
   Establishment of open video systems, see 47 U.S.C. § 573
§ 15-2 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced and administered by the
City Administrator.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984)
§ 15-3 RIGHTS RESERVED TO CITY.
   (a)   The right is reserved to the City or the City Council to adopt, in
addition to the provisions contained in this Chapter and in existing or
applicable ordinances, such additional regulations or ordinances as it shall
find necessary in the exercise of the police power. Such regulations, by
ordinance or otherwise, shall be reasonable and not in conflict with applicable
law.
   (b)   The City shall have the right to install and maintain free of charge
upon the poles or conduits of the franchisee, any wire and pole fixtures
necessary for a police or fire alarm system, on the condition that such wire
and pole fixtures do not interfere with the cable system operations of the
franchisee and that such installations shall be installed in a safe manner in
conformance with the State and City regulations.
   (c)   The City shall have the right to supervise all construction or
installations work performed subject to the provisions of this Chapter and make
such inspections as it shall find necessary to insure compliance with the terms
of this Chapter and all other pertinent provisions of law.
   (d)   At the expiration of the term of any franchise granted pursuant to
this Chapter, and the non-renewal thereof in accordance with applicable law,
and upon the termination or revocation of a franchise as provided for in this
Chapter, the City shall have the right to require the franchisee to remove at
the franchisee’s own expense all portions of the cable system from all public
rights-of-way within the City.
   (e)   The City shall have the right unless otherwise provided in this
Chapter or in a franchise agreement to assess and collect a $100.00 a day fine
and penalty against the franchisee for its failure to comply with any of the
provisions of this Chapter and/or the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-4 COPIES OF FRANCHISEE’S COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES TO BE
SUBMITTED TO CITY CLERK.
   Copies of all petitions, applications and communications submitted by the
franchisee to the Federal Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange
Commission and any other Federal or State regulatory or other agency having
jurisdiction in respect to any matters affecting cable system operations
authorized by this Chapter, shall be also submitted simultaneously to the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-5 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (a)   The franchisee shall obtain at its own expense and maintain throughout
the terms of its franchise, liability insurance for its own protection and with
the City of Flint included as an additional named insured, insurance coverage
for all damages for which the City and/or franchisee may be liable, including,
but not limited to, all damages arising out of the installations, operation,
maintenance or removal of the franchisee’s cable system operated under this
Chapter, whether or not any act or omission complained of is authorized,
allowed, or prohibited by this Chapter or the franchise agreement.
   (b)   The liability insurance shall be in the following amounts:
      (1)   $1,000,000.00 for bodily injury or death from any one incident.
      (2)   $1,000,000.00 for property damage resulting from one incident.
      (3)   $1,000,000.00 for all other types of liability, including
contractual liability.
   (c)   The insurance policy obtained by the franchisee in compliance with
this section must be approved by the Risk Manager and the Chief Legal Officer
for the City of Flint and such insurance policy or binder together with written
evidence of payment of required premiums, shall be filed with the City Clerk.
Such insurance policy must contain a clause which requires the insurance
company to provide written notice to the City Clerk at least 30 days before
cancellation or material change in the terms of the policy.
   (d)   The franchisee shall indemnify and hold harmless the City from all
damages for which the City may become liable arising out of the installation,
operation, maintenance, or removal of franchisee’s cable system, including, but
not limited to, copyright infringement.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2516, passed 10-6-1975; Ord. 2899, passed 3-
21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-6 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS OF FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
   A franchisee shall comply with all rules and regulations, both present and
future, of the Federal Communications Commission with respect to cable systems.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-7 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   (a)   Equal employment and opportunity shall be afforded by all franchisees
to all qualified persons, and no person shall be discriminated against in
employment because of race, color, religion, national origin, age, handicap,
height, weight, or sex.
   (b)   Each franchisee shall establish, maintain and carry out a positive,
continuing program of specific practices designed to assure equal opportunity
in every aspect of the system’s employment policy and practice.
   (c)   Each franchisee shall:
      (1)   Define the responsibility of each level of management to insure a
positive application and vigorous enforcement of policy of equal opportunity,
and establish a procedure to review and control managerial and supervisory
performance and appoint a manager-employee to coordinate all equal opportunity
employment.
      (2)   Inform its employees and recognized employee organizations of the
positive, equal employment opportunity policy and program and require their
cooperation.
      (3)   Communicate the system’s equal employment opportunity policy and
program and its employment needs to sources of qualified applicants without
regard to race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, height, weight, age
or sex and solicit their recruitment and assistance on a continuing basis.
      (4)   Conduct a continuing education program to exclude prejudice or
discrimination based upon race, color, religion, national origin, age,
handicap, height, weight or sex and solicit their recruitment and assistance on
a continuing basis.
      (5)   Conduct a continuing review of job structure and employment
practices and adopt positive recruitment, training, job design and other
measures needed to insure genuine equality of job opportunity to participate
fully in all organization units, occupations and levels of responsibility in
the system.
      (6)   Report the racial composition of its work force and define positive
steps taken to insure equal employment opportunity.
      (7)   Cooperate with the City’s Equal Opportunity Officer in the use and
implementation of measures designed to increase minority employment in an
effort to ensure equal employment opportunity.
   (d)   Each franchisee shall file a statement of its equal employment
opportunity program with the application for the franchise.
   (e)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall be
reported to the City Council by the Equal Opportunity Officer whereupon, within
30 days after notification, the franchisee shall appear before the City Council
to answer such charges of noncompliance. If after 60 days following the
hearing, the City Council determines that the franchisee has failed to take
affirmative steps to comply with the provisions of this section, the City
Council may revoke the franchise.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
ARTICLE II. FRANCHISES
§ 15-8 REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct, operate or maintain a cable system within the
City without first obtaining a franchise from the City Council as provided in
this Chapter.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-9 LIMITATIONS.
   A franchise issued pursuant to this Chapter authorizes only the operation of
a cable system to provide cable service as provided for in this Chapter and
does not take the place of any other franchise, license or permit which might
be required by Federal, State or local law.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-10 TERM; REFUSAL TO GRANT RENEWAL.
   Each franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter shall continue until April
30 of the year following issuance of the franchise unless otherwise agreed in
the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-11 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for franchises issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be made
upon blank forms prepared and made available by the City Clerk and shall state:
   (a)   The name and main business address of the applicant.
   (b)   The names and main business address of any firm, association or
corporation of which the applicant is a division or subsidiary.
   (c)   The names and business addresses of all owners, partners, directors,
officers and resident agents of applicant.
   (d)   The names and addresses of all stockholders of the applicant who own
10% or more of the applicant’s stock.
   (e)   Such information as the City Clerk shall find reasonably necessary to
effect the purpose of this Chapter and to arrive at a fair determination of
whether the terms of this Chapter have been or will be complied with.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-12 APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   The City Council may approve a franchise pursuant to this Chapter only after
the franchisee’s application has been reviewed by the following:
   (a)   The City Clerk, who shall inspect the City files and advise the
Council as to past licensing experience with the applicant as well as other
licenses or franchises and permits held by the applicant.
   (b)   The Chief of Police, who shall advise the Council as to the criminal
record, if any, of the applicant, and all of the applicant’s owners, partners,
directors, officers and resident agents.
   (c)   The Director of the Department of Public Works, who shall advise the
Council as to the experience of that Department with the applicant and all of
the applicant’s owners, partners, directors, officers and resident agents
regarding any inspection of any of the applicant’s facilities which that
Department has made pursuant to law.
   (d)   The Superintendent of the Parks and Recreation Department, who shall
advise as to the experience of the Department of Parks and Recreation with the
applicant regarding any work required to be performed by this Department due to
any hazards caused by the applicant’s facilities and any trees and shrubbery in
the City.
   (e)   The Telecommunications Advisory Commission, which shall advise the
Council on any and all other pertinent matters with respect to the applicant as
would be reasonably calculated to bear on the applicant’s ability to comply
with the terms of this Chapter.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-13 FRANCHISE FEE.
   The franchise fee represents compensation for a cable system’s use of City
streets and other public rights-of-way and shall be an amount allowed by law
and negotiated between the City and the applicant for the franchise.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2435, passed 4-1-1974; Ord. 2516, passed 10-
6-1975; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-14 TRANSFER.
   Each franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter is nontransferable by the
franchisee to any other person, either directly or indirectly through a
transfer of control of the franchisee, except with the express approval of the
City Council and subject to such transferee having submitted an application as
provided in §
15-11, and subject further to the transferee agreeing to accept and abide by
all terms, conditions and requirements of this Chapter and the applicable
franchise agreement. In lieu of the information required by §
15-11, the franchisee and transferee may submit a completed FCC Form 394 as
their franchise transfer application.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-15 RESERVED.
§ 15-16 REVOCATION; HEARING.
   Any franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter may be revoked by the City
Council following a hearing before the City Council or hearing panel of the
Council and upon the recommendation of the City Administrator or the
Telecommunications Advisory Commission and in the following manner.
   (a)   Notice of the intention to revoke and a written statement of the
charges on which it is based shall be sent to the franchisee’s main business
address by certified or registered mail, advising the franchisee of the
charges, the intent to revoke the franchise and the franchisee’s right to a
hearing.
   (b)   The franchisee shall have 20 days from the date of mailing the notice
of intent to revoke or to request a hearing before the City Council or a
hearing panel of the Council with respect to the revocation. Failure on the
part of the franchisee to request such a hearing shall result in the revocation
of the franchise immediately following the expiration of the 20 days.
   (c)   Upon receipt of the franchisee’s request for a hearing, the City
Council shall set a time and date for the hearing, such time and date being not
later than 30 days from the date of receipt of the franchisee’s request for the
hearing. Written notice of the time, date and place of the meeting shall be
sent to the franchisee’s main business address by certified or registered mail
at least ten days prior to the date of the meeting.
   (d)   At the hearing, the City Administrator or Chief Legal Officer shall
present to the Council or hearing panel of the Council the evidence upon which
the recommendation for termination of the franchise is based and the franchisee
shall have the opportunity to present any evidence it may have as to why the
franchise should not be revoked.
   (e)   Upon hearing all of the evidence, the City Council shall decide
whether to revoke the franchise.
   (f)   The franchisee shall be permitted to continue its operations after the
initial action by the City Council so long as it makes its request for a
hearing within the time limits specified in subsection (b) of this section.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
ARTICLE III. INSTALLATIONS AND FACILITIES
§ 15-17 CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY; LEASE, RENTAL.
   The franchisee shall have the right:
   (a)   Subject to the provisions and restrictions of Article VII of this
Chapter and
Chapter 37 of this Code, to construct, erect, operate and maintain in, upon,
along, across, above, over and under the streets, alleys, public rights-of-way
and public places now laid out or dedicated and all extensions thereof and
additions thereto in the City, poles, wires, cables, underground conduits,
manholes and other conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and
operation of a cable system.
   (b)   To lease, rent or in any other lawful manner obtain the use of towers,
poles, lines, cables and other equipment and facilities from any and all
holders of public licenses and franchises within the corporate limits of the
City, including, but not limited to, Consumers Power Company and Ameritech and
to use same on such terms as agreed upon, subject to all existing and future
ordinances and regulations of the City. The poles used for the franchisee’s
distribution system shall be those erected and maintained by Consumers Power
Company or Ameritech when and where applicable, providing mutually satisfactory
rental arrangements can be entered into with such companies.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002; Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-18 EQUIPMENT LOCATION; ALTERATION OF STREETS, TREES AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the franchisee within the City shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public
rights-of-way and public places and to cause minimum interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any such
streets, alleys or public rights-of-way and public places.
   (b)   In case of disturbance of any street, sidewalk, alley, public right-
of-way or paved area, the franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense, and in
a manner approved by the Director of Public Works, replace and restore such
street, sidewalk, alley, public rights-of-way or paved area in as good a
condition as it was in before the work involving such disturbance was done.
   (c)   If, at any time, during the period of a franchise granted pursuant to
this Chapter, the City shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public right-of-way, the franchisee, upon
reasonable notice by the City, shall remove, relay and relocate its poles,
wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own
expense.
   (d)   Any poles or other fixtures placed in any public right-of-way by the
franchisee shall be placed in such manner as not to interfere with the usual
travel on such public place.
   (e)   The franchisee shall, on the request of any person, including the
City, holding a building moving permit issued by the City, temporarily raise or
lower its wires to permit the moving of buildings. Except where the requesting
party is the City, the expense of such temporary removal or raising or lowering
of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the franchisee
shall have the authority to require payment in advance. The franchisee shall be
given not less than 48 hours advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire
changes.
   (f)   The franchisee shall, after giving notice to and obtaining the
approval of the City’s Parks and Recreation Department, have the authority to
trim trees upon and hanging over streets, alleys, sidewalks and public rights-
of-way and places of the City so as to prevent the branches of such trees from
coming in contact with the wires and cables of the franchisee. At the option of
the Parks and Recreation Department, such trimming may be done by it or under
its supervision and direction at the expense of the franchisee.
   (g)   In all sections of the City where the cable, wires or other like
facilities of public utilities are placed underground, the franchisee shall
place its cables, wires or other like facilities underground. Franchisee may
apply to the City for a waiver of this requirement, and the City may grant the
waiver request, if franchisee demonstrates that existing technology does not
reasonably permit the franchisee to place its facilities underground.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-19 CONSTRUCTION, USE OF POLES AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the
franchisee without prior approval of the City Council with regard to the
location, height, type and any other pertinent aspect. However, no location of
any pole or wire-holding structure of the franchisee shall be a vested interest
and such poles and structures shall be removed or modified by the franchisee at
its own expense whenever the City Council determines that the public
convenience would be enhanced.
   (b)   Where poles or other wire-holding structures are already in existence
for use in serving the City and are available for use by the franchisee but it
does not make arrangements for use, the City Council may require the franchisee
to use such poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience
would be enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the franchisee
are just and reasonable.
   (c)   Where the City or a public utility serving the City desires to make
use of the poles or other wire-holding structures of the franchisee (but a
franchisee’s wires shall not be construed to be “wire-holding structures”), but
agreement therefor with the franchisee cannot be reached, the City Council may
require the franchisee to permit such use for such consideration and upon such
terms as the City Council shall determine to be just and reasonable, if the
City Council determines that the use would enhance the public convenience and
would not unduly interfere with the franchisee’s operations.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-20 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (a)   The franchisee shall at all times employ at least ordinary care and
shall install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for
preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries or
nuisances to the public.
   (b)   The franchisee shall install and maintain its wires, cables, fixtures
and other equipment in accordance with the substantive requirements of
Chapter 16 of this Code and all applicable State and Federal laws, rules and
regulations and in such manner that they will not interfere with any
installations of the City or of a public utility serving the City.
   (c)   All structures and all lines, equipment and connections in, over and
under and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys and public rights-of-way or
places of the City, wherever situated or located, shall at all times be kept
and maintained in a safe, suitable, substantial condition and in good order and
repair.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984)
§ 15-21 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The franchisee shall, on or before April 1 of each year, file with the City
Clerk true and accurate maps or plats, showing the location of all existing and
proposed installations, which shall include all receiving and transmitting
stations, all trunk lines, whether leased or owned outright, feeder lines,
whether leased or owned outright; and attached to such maps or plats shall be a
list by address of current subscribers.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974)
ARTICLE IV. PROGRAMMING; SERVICE; RATES
§ 15-22 SIGNAL QUALITY.
   A franchisee shall:
   (a)   Produce a picture, whether in black and white or in color, that is
undistorted, free from ghost images and accompanied with proper sound on
typical standard production television sets that meets all applicable rules and
standards of the Federal Communications Commission, shall transmit signals of
adequate strength to produce good pictures with good sound at all outlets
without causing cross-modulation in the calibers or interfering with other
electrical or electronic systems.
   (b)   File with the City, within thirty (30) days of the completion of such
tests, copies of the results of all cable system performance and signal tests
that the franchisee is required to perform on its cable system by the rules of
the Federal Communications Commission.
   (c)   Comply with all rules and regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission concerning cable system signal and picture quality and shall test
its system for compliance with such regulations as required by those rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-23 COLOR TELEVISION.
   The facilities used by the franchisee shall be capable of distributing color
television signals, and when the signals the franchisee distributes are
received in color by the franchisee, they shall be distributed in color by the
franchisee.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974)
§ 15-24 PROGRAM ALTERATION.
   Subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications
Commission or other applicable law, all programs of broadcasting stations
required to be carried by the franchisee shall be carried in their entirety as
received, with announcements and advertisement and without additions.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-25 SYSTEM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE GENERALLY.
   A franchisee shall:
   (a)   Render efficient service, make repairs promptly and interrupt service
only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such interruptions,
insofar as is possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur during
periods of minimum use of the system.
   (b)   Maintain an office in the City which shall be open during all usual
business hours, have a listed telephone and be so operated that complaints and
requests for repairs or adjustments may be received at any time, 24 hours each
day.
   (c)   Limit failures to a minimum by locating and correcting malfunctions
promptly, but in no event longer than 24 hours after receiving notice of same.
Should it be impossible or impractical to correct any such malfunctions in 24
hours or less, then, unless the franchisee can show that the disruption in
service was
entirely beyond its control, the franchisee shall give a rebate in the amount
of $1.00 for every additional 12-hour period or the greater portion thereof
that television reception is so disrupted to every affected subscriber who
notifies the franchisee of the disruption and to any other subscribers whom the
franchisee otherwise reasonably should have been aware were affected by the
reception disruption. The rebate to any subscriber under this section in any
month shall not exceed the subscriber’s normal monthly fee paid to the
franchisee. In the event a disruption of service for any reason extends beyond
three days from the time the franchisee is notified or otherwise reasonably
becomes aware of the disruption, the affected subscribers shall receive a
rebate proportionate to the time of the disruption.
   (d)   Should any failure or malfunction in the operation of the cable
communications system take more than eight hours to correct or repair, then the
franchisee shall, within 15 days from the occurrence of the failure or
malfunction, file a report with the City Administrator, providing the following
information:
      (1)   The cause of the failure or malfunction;
      (2)   The length of time the service was disrupted;
      (3)   The geographical area affected by the failure or malfunction;
      (4)   The number of subscribers affected by the failure or malfunction;
and
      (5)   What, if anything, is being done or can be done to prevent such
failure or malfunctions from occurring in the future.
   (e)   Comply with the cable system customer service obligations set forth in
47 C.F.R. § 76.309 as in effect on January 1, 1999, and in addition, as those
regulations may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Cable system customer service obligations, see 47 U.S.C. § 76.309
§ 15-26 EMERGENCY PROGRAMMING.
   In the case of any emergency or disaster, a franchisee shall, upon request
of the City Council, the Mayor or the City Administrator, make available its
facilities to the City for emergency use during emergency or disaster period.
To this end, the cable system shall have an “automatic override” capability
built into it so that emergency messages may be broadcast over all cable
channels simultaneously from the cable system’s distribution source.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§§ 15-27 – 15-32 RESERVED.
§ 15-33 ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE.
   (a)   The franchisee shall not permit any of its systems to be used by any
person or governmental agency for an electronic eavesdropping or surveillance
or for any monitory purpose which constitutes an invasion of the right to
privacy of any subscriber or user of the system, unless such eavesdropping,
surveillance or monitoring is performed pursuant to existing State or Federal
laws by a governmental law enforcement agency.
   (b)   Franchisee shall not permit the transmission for any signal, oral,
visual or digital, including “polling” the channel selection, from any
subscriber’s premises without first obtaining the written permission of the
subscriber. This provision is not intended to prohibit the use or transmission
of signals useful only for the control or measurement of system performance or
used only for billing subscribers. Franchisee shall not permit the installation
of any special terminal equipment in any subscriber’s premises that will permit
transmission from subscriber’s premises of two-way services utilizing oral,
visual or digital signals without first obtaining the written permission of the
subscriber. The franchisee, or any of its agents or employees, shall not,
without the specific written authorization for the subscriber involved, sell or
otherwise make available to any party any list which identifies the names,
addresses, telephone numbers, identities or the viewing habits of individual
subscribers, except as required for billing purposes and in accordance with
applicable law.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-
28-2002)
§ 15-34 ACCESS.
   No owner of any dwelling or mobile home park or his agent may forbid or
prevent any tenant or occupant of the dwelling or mobile home park from
receiving cable television service from the franchisee, nor discriminate in
rental charges or otherwise against any such tenant or occupant receiving cable
television service from the franchisee. Such owner or his agent may require
that the installation of cable television facilities conform to all reasonable
conditions necessary to protect the safety, functioning, appearance and value
of the premises and the convenience, safety and well-being of other tenants or
occupants. A franchisee installing any such facilities for the benefit of a
tenant or occupant in any dwelling or mobile home park shall agree to indemnify
the owner thereof for any damage or compensate the owner thereof for any taking
of the owner’s property caused by the installation, operation or removal of
such facilities and for any liability which may arise out of such installation,
operation or removal. The franchisee shall also indemnify the City for any
damages arising from the application of this section. Any dispute hereunder
shall be referred to the Telecommunications Advisory Commission.
(Ord. 2899, passed 3-21-1984; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-35 UNIFORMITY OF RATES AND SERVICE.
   The franchisee shall not make or grant any undue preference or advantage to
any person as to rates, charges, services, services facilities, rules,
regulations or in any other respect nor subject any person to prejudice or
disadvantage.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974)
ARTICLE V. TELECOMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY COMMISSION
§ 15-36 COMPOSITION; QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   There shall be created a Telecommunications Advisory Commission which shall
consist of six representative community members and the City Clerk acting as
the representative of the City Council. The City Administrator or his/her
representative and the Equal Opportunity Officer or his/her representative
shall serve as ex officio members of the Commission, with the right to enter
into any discussion or debate at any meeting of the Commission, but shall not
have the right to vote. Elected officials shall be prohibited from serving as
Commission members. The members of the Commission shall have attained 18 years
of age and shall be residents of the City. Members shall serve for a term of
three years, except for the City Clerk who shall serve continuously. Terms of
the Commission members serving at the time of adoption of Ord. 2595 shall
expire on April 30, 1979, and at the expiration of the terms, two members shall
be appointed for two years and three members shall be appointed for three
years. The two additional members provided by this amendment shall be appointed
to three-year terms expiring on April 30, 1980.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2595, passed 4-11-1977; Ord. 2954, passed 5-
28-1985; Ord. 3180, passed 8-26-1991; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-37 MEMBERS — APPOINTED.
   Members of the Telecommunications Advisory Commission shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with the concurrence of the City Council.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 3180, passed 8-26-1991)
§ 15-38 SAME — COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Advisory Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974)
§ 15-39 VACANCIES.
   A member’s seat on the Commission shall be deemed vacant whenever said
member dies, resigns, ceases to be a resident of the City of Flint, fails to
attend three consecutive regular meetings of the Commission, or when the
member’s term expires. All vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor with the
concurrence of the City Council for the remaining term of that vacancy.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974)
§ 15-40 MEETINGS.
   Meetings shall be called by the Chairman of the Commission or by written
demand of any two members thereof. Meetings shall be called as deemed necessary
by the Chairman or any two members thereof provided that the Commission shall
meet no less than once each quarter. Notice of the meetings shall be mailed to
each Commission member at least three days prior to such meeting and said
notice shall specify the time, date and place of said meeting and the purpose
of same. A quorum for all meetings of the Commission shall be three members.
All meetings of the Commission shall be three members. All meetings of the
Commission shall be posted 12 hours in advance and shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-41 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   At its first meeting, the Commission shall establish rules of procedures for
the efficient conduct of its business. These rules of procedure may be amended
as necessary from time to time by majority vote of the members appointed.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974)
§ 15-42 DUTIES.
   The Telecommunications Advisory Commission shall have the following duties:
   (a)   Investigate, research and otherwise stay abreast of all developments
in the technology of telecommunications and advise the City Council when such
technology is such that there are potential uses and benefits to the citizens
of the City which have not been heretofore contemplated or dealt with in this
Chapter, in an effort to ensure that the citizens of the City are and will be
receiving the finest and widest range of benefits from any cable system.
   (b)   Advise the City Council from time to time on proposed amendments to
this Chapter to ensure that the citizens of the City are and will be receiving
the finest and widest range of benefits from any cable system franchised under
this Chapter and at least services which are comparable to those provided by
cable systems in other political subdivisions of similar size.
   (c)   Assist, whenever possible, in coordinating the efforts of cable
systems, educators, government agencies and other interested citizens to
provide the finest and widest range of benefits from any cable system licensed
under this Chapter to the citizens of the City.
   (d)   Study, research and investigate any other permitted matters upon the
request of the City Council and make any reports and recommendations to the
Mayor and the City Council as the Mayor and/or City Council may, from time to
time, request.
   (e)   Meet and confer with the City Administrator and the Equal Opportunity
Officer to review the performance of the franchisee and to report to the City
Council and the Mayor any serious or repeated infractions of the terms and
conditions of this Chapter or deficiencies in its administration.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 2954, passed 5-28-1985; Ord. 3180, passed 8-
26-1991; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-43 EXPENSES.
   All necessary and actual expenses incurred by the Commission in the conduct
of its business, research and investigation shall be paid from funds budgeted
for that purpose by the City Council.
(Ord. 2428, passed 2-18-1974)
ARTICLE VI. CABLE    RATE REGULATION
§ 15-44 RATE REGULATION.
   (a)   The purpose of this section is to adopt by reference the regulations
and rules of the Federal Communications Commission with respect to rate
regulation of basic cable service and equipment.
   (b)   The City reserves the right to regulate the rates charged for cable
services and equipment to the full extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 3253, passed 9-27-1993; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-45 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. SEVERABILITY AND CONFLICT
§ 15-46 SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts, sections and clauses of this Chapter are hereby declared
severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section or clause is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of the Chapter shall not be affected.
(Ord. 3253, passed 9-27-1993; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 15-47 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this Chapter and the provisions of any
prior ordinance or any franchise, permit, consent agreement or other agreement
with a cable operator, then the provisions of this Chapter shall control.
(Ord. 3253, passed 9-27-1993; Ord. 3486, passed 1-28-2002)
ARTICLE VIII. METROPOLITAN TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT
§ 15-63 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 3253, passed 9-27-1993; Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-64 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this ordinance are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002 (“Act”) and other applicable law, and to
ensure that the City qualifies for distributions under the Act by modifying the
fees charged to providers and complying with the Act.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight Act, see
MCLA 484.3101 et seq.
§ 15-64.1 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this ordinance shall have the following meanings:
   ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Tele- communications Rights-of-Way Oversight
Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, as amended from time to time.
   AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Authority created pursuant to the Act.
   CITY. The City of Flint.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Flint or its designee. This
section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Council.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumers
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term “Commission”
in the Act.
   PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this article
to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the City
for its telecommunications facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partner- ship, association, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a
Federal, State or private right-of-way.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of Title III
of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Those
terms as defined in Section 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public
Act 179 of 1991, MCLA § 484.2101. TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER does not include
a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed
commercial mobile radio service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of the
Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this article only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the
following:
      (1)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way.
      (3)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Communications Act, see 47 U.S.C. § 20.3; 47 U.S.C. § 332
   Michigan Telecommunications Act, see MCLA 484.2101 et seq.
§ 15-65 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (a)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
City for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this ordinance.
   (b)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with Section 6(1) of the
Act. A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with
the City Clerk, one copy with the Mayor, one copy with the City Engineer, and
one copy with the Chief Legal Officer. Applications shall be complete and
include all information required by the Act, including without limitation a
route map showing the location of the provider’s existing and proposed
facilities in accordance with Section 6(5) of the Act.
   (c)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, that is exempt
from public disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of
1976, MCLA §§ 15.231 to 15.246, pursuant to Section 6(5) of the Act, the
telecommunications provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each
map.
   (d)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time nonrefundable application fee in
the amount of $500.00.
   (e)   Additional information. The City may request an applicant to submit
such additional information which the City deems reasonably necessary or
relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in compliance with
reasonable deadlines for such additional information established by the City.
If the City and the applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional
information requested by the City, the City or the applicant shall notify the
MPSC as provided in Section 6(2) of the Act.
   (f)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to Section 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the City under Section 251 of
the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, MCLA § 484.2101 et
seq. and authorizations or permits issued by the City to telecommunications
providers prior to the 1995 enactment of Section 251 of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of
this ordinance.
   (g)   Existing providers. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the City as of
that date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under
Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991,
MCLA § 484.2101 et seq., shall submit to the City an application for a permit
in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance. Pursuant to Section 5(3)
of the Act, a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
subsection is not required to pay the $500.00 application fee required under
subsection (d) above. A provider under this subsection shall be given up to an
additional 180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the
Authority, as provided in Section 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see MCLA 15.231 et seq.
§ 15-66 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (a)   Approval or denial. The Mayor shall have the authority to approve or
deny an application for a permit. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, the
Mayor shall approve or deny an application for a permit within forty-five (45)
days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a
permit under §
15-65(b) of this ordinance for access to a public right-of-way within the City.
Pursuant to Section 6(6) of the Act, the Mayor shall notify the MPSC when the
Mayor has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the date
on which the application was filed and the date on which permit was granted or
denied. The Mayor shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (b)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the Mayor
shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, in accordance with Sections 6(1), 6(2)
and 15 of the Act.
   (c)   Conditions. Pursuant to Section 15(4) of the Act, the Mayor may impose
conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be limited to
the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way.
   (d)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on subsection (c) above, the Mayor may require that a bond be posted
by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a bond is
required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the public
right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-67 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the City without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under this
Chapter 15 of the Code of Ordinances, as amended, for construction within the
public rights-of-way. No additional fee shall be charged for such a
construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-68 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to Section 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this ordinance does not give a
telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-69 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to Section 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the City, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the City.
The route maps should be in paper and electronic format unless and until the
MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with Section 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-70 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to Section 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider
undertaking an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the City, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all
damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below or
within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-
way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-71 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the nonrefundable application fee paid to the City set forth
in §
15-65(d), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the City’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-72 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(1) of the Act, the City
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(4)
of the Act, the City also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers
with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the City’s
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under Section
8 of the Act. The City shall provide each telecommunications provider affected
by the fee with a copy of this article, in compliance with the requirement of
Section 13(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications
providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are
otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be
contrary to the City’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the City, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-73 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to Section 13(5) of the Act, if Section 8 of the Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
15-72 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-74 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to Section 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the City from
the Authority shall be used by the City solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the City
from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Roads Fund and/or the
Local Route Fund maintained by the City under Public Act 51 of 1951.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
Statutory reference:
   State Trunk Line Highway System, see MCLA 247.651 et seq.
§ 15-75 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to Section 10(5) of the Act, the Mayor shall file an annual report
with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually distributed by
the Authority.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-76 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to Section 13(6) of the Act, the City shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-77 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein
with respect to fees, this ordinance shall not affect any existing rights that
a telecommunications provider or the City may have under a permit issued by the
City or under a contract between the City and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-78 COMPLIANCE.
   The City hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
ordinance is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the
provisions hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that
purpose. The City shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including but not limited to the following:
   (a)   Exempting certain route maps from public disclosure under the Freedom
of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, MCLA §§ 15.231 to 15.246, as
provided in §
15-65(c) of this ordinance;
   (b)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
15-65(f) of this ordinance;
   (c)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500.00
application fee, in accordance with §
15-65(g) of this ordinance;
   (d)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within forty-five
(45) days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for
a permit for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the City, in
accordance with §
15-66(a) of this ordinance;
   (e)   Notifying the MPSC when the City has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
15-66(a) of this ordinance;
   (f)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
15-66(a) of this ordinance;
   (g)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
15-66(b) of this ordinance;
   (h)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
15-66(c) of this ordinance;
   (i)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
15-66(d) of this ordinance;
   (j)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
15-67 of this ordinance;
   (k)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the City’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this article, in accordance with §
15-72 of this ordinance;
   (l)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
15-75 of this ordinance; and
   (m)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
15-76 of this ordinance.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see MCLA 15.231 et seq.
§ 15-79 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to Section 15(2) of the Act, this ordinance shall not limit the
City’s right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the City’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-80 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The Mayor or Mayor’s designee is hereby designated as the authorized City
official to issue municipal civil infraction citations (directing alleged
violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction violation notices
(directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal Chapter Violations
Bureau) for violations under this ordinance as provided by the City Code.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-81 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of this ordinance or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to a civil fine, sanctions and remedies as prescribed in §
1-7 of the City of Flint Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-82 SEVERABILITY.
   This ordinance and each article, section, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph, part, provision, sentence, word and portion thereof are hereby
declared to be severable, and if they or any of them are declared to be invalid
or unenforceable for any reason by a Court of competent jurisdiction, it is
hereby provided that the remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected
thereby.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 15-83 REPEAL.
   All regulatory provisions contained in other City ordinances, which are
inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 3512, passed 4-28-2003)
ARTICLE IX. VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 15-84 PURPOSE.
   (a)   Under the Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act, video service
providers may obtain a franchise to provide video services in the municipality
using a standardized uniform form of franchise agreement established by the
MPSC. This form includes the right to use the public right-of-way to provide
such service but does not contain right-of-way management and related
provisions.
   (b)   Municipality’s cable television franchise with its current cable
operator predates the Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act and may be
interpreted to have right-of-way management and related provisions, directly or
through the Charter and City Code provisions referenced therein. The Act states
that as of January 1, 2007, “any provisions” of such an agreement “that are
inconsistent with or in addition to” the standardized, uniform form of
franchise agreement established by the MPSC “are unreasonable and unenforceable
by the franchising entity.” Although the municipality and other local units of
government have challenged this provision of the Act in Court, there has been
no final resolution of the challenges, and there may not be one for some time.
   (c)   Telecommunications providers who obtain a standardized, uniform form
of franchise agreement generally will have previously obtained from
municipality a permit under the Metro Act to construct and maintain their
telecommunications facilities in the public right-of-way. These Metro Act
permits set forth the terms and conditions for the right-of-way usage; standard
forms of such permits were agreed to in a collaborative process between
municipalities and providers that was initiated by the MPSC; and such standard
forms have since been approved by the legislature and the MPSC.
   (d)   Because telecommunications providers typically provide video services
over combined video and telecommunications facilities, such Metro Act permits
generally provide adequate public right-of-way related protections for
municipality and the public when such providers are providing video services.
   (e)   Other video service providers, in particular new providers or existing
cable operators, may not have a Metro Act permit issued by municipality.
   (f)   The Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act and the standardized,
uniform franchise agreement require video service providers with such an
agreement to comply with all valid and enforceable local regulations regarding
the use and occupation of the public right-of-way in the delivery of video
services, including the police powers of the franchising entity, and makes such
right-of-way usage subject to the laws of the State of Michigan and the police
powers of the franchising entity.
   (g)   The Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act and the standardized
uniform franchise agreement state that franchising entities shall provide video
service providers with open, comparable, nondiscriminatory and competitively
neutral access to the public right-of-way, and may not discriminate against a
video service provider for the authorization or placement of a video-service or
communications network in the public right-of-way.
   (h)   The Michigan Constitution reserves reasonable control of the highways,
streets, alleys and public places to local units of government, which may
exercise such authority through the use of their police powers.
   (i)   The purpose of this ordinance is to promote and protect the public
health, safety and welfare and exercise reasonable control over the public
right-of-way by regulating the use and occupation of such rights-of-way by
video service providers who lack a Metro Act permit from the municipality. This
ordinance does so by setting forth terms and conditions for such usage and
occupation from the forms of Metro Act permit approved by the MPSC and approved
by the legislature in Section 6(1) of the Metro Act, thus providing open,
comparable, nondiscriminatory and competitively neutral access to the public
right-of-way and not discriminating against a video service provider for the
authorization or placement of a video service or communications network in the
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 15-85 CONSISTENT INTERPRETATION.
   This ordinance shall be interpreted and applied so as to be consistent with
the Metro Act and corresponding provisions of the forms of Metro Act permit
approved by the MPSC, including applicable MPSC, metro authority and Court
decisions and determinations relating to same.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 15-86 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply to this ordinance, including §§
15-84 and
15-85 above:
   ACT. The Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act, being Act 480 of the
Public Acts of 2006, MCLA §§ 484.3301 and following, as amended from time to
time.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Shall have the same meaning as in the Act.
   CLAIMS. Shall have the meaning set forth in §
15-90(a).
   FACILITIES. The lines, equipment and other facilities of a permittee which
use or occupy the public right-of-way in the delivery of video services in
municipality.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The franchise agreement entered into or possessed by a
video service provider with municipality as required by Section 3(1) of the
Act, if it is the standardized, uniform form of franchise agreement established
by the MPSC.
   MANAGER. Municipality’s Mayor or his designee.
   METRO ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being Act 48 of the Public Acts of 2002, MCLA §§ 484.3101 and
following.
   METRO ACT PERMIT. A permit to use the public right-of-way issued by
municipality under
Chapter 15 of the municipality’s Code of Ordinances, which implements the Metro
Act, after a provider’s application for same to municipality.
   METRO AUTHORITY. Shall have the same meaning as “authority” in the Metro
Act.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission, and shall have the same
meaning as the term “Commission” in the Act and the Metro Act.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Flint.
   PERMITTEE. A video service provider without a currently valid Metro Act
permit but with either (a) a preexisting agreement, or (b) a currently valid
franchise agreement.
      (1)   Upon applying to municipality for and then obtaining a Metro Act
permit from municipality, a video service provider is not a PERMITTEE and is no
longer required to comply with this ordinance. A video service provider is also
not a PERMITTEE and is not required to comply with this ordinance if it and
municipality enter into a voluntary franchise agreement as described in §
15-94(b) of this ordinance.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, association, partnership, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
   PREEXISTING AGREEMENT. A cable television franchise predating the effective
date of the Act, January 1, 2007, which has not expired or been terminated.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Shall have the same meaning as in the Act.
   STREET CONSTRUCTION AND STREET RESURFACING. Shall have the meanings set
forth in §
15-89(i) of this ordinance.
   VIDEO SERVICE. Shall have the same meaning as in the Act.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Shall have the same meaning as in the Act, and shall
include an “incumbent video provider” as referred to in Section 5(2) of the
Act.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see 47 U.S.C. 522
   Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight Act, see
MCLA 484.3101 et seq.
   Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act, see MCLA 484.3301 et seq.
§ 15-87 APPLICABILITY TO PERMITTEES.
   Compliance, insurance exception: All permittees shall comply with this
ordinance, except that a permittee need not comply with the insurance
provisions of §
15-91 of this ordinance if it is maintaining the insurance required by Section
II.J of the standardized uniform form of franchise agreement established by the
MPSC (which in accordance with the Act states that incumbent video providers
shall comply with the terms which provide insurance for right-of-way related
activities that are contained in its last cable franchise or consent agreement
from the franchising entity entered into before the effective date of the Act).
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 15-88 CONTACTS, MAPS AND PLANS.
   (a)   Permittee contacts. Permittee shall provide the Manager with the
names, addresses and the like for engineering and construction related
information for permittee and its facilities as follows:
      (1)   The address, e-mail address, phone number and contact person (title
or name) at permittee’s local office (in or near municipality).
      (2)   If permittee’s engineering drawings, as-built plans and related
records for the facilities will not be located at the preceding local office,
the location address, phone number and contact person (title or department) for
them.
      (3)   The name, title, address, e-mail address and telephone numbers of
permittee’s engineering contact person(s) with responsibility for the design,
plans and construction of the facilities.
      (4)   The address, phone number and contact person (title or department)
at permittee’s home office/regional office with responsibility for engineering
and construction related aspects of the facilities.
      (5)   Permittee shall at all times provide manager with the phone number
at which a live representative of permittee (not voice mail) can be reached 24
hours a day, seven (7) days a week, in the event of a public emergency.
      (6)   Permittee shall notify municipality in writing pursuant to the
notice provisions of its franchise agreement or preexisting agreement
(whichever is then in effect) of any changes in the preceding information.
   (b)   Route maps. Within ninety (90) days after the substantial completion
of construction of new facilities in municipality, permittee shall submit route
maps showing the location of the facilities to municipality, in the same manner
and subject to the same provisions as apply to telecommunications providers
under Section 6(7) and 6(8) of the Metro Act, MCLA § 484.3106(7) and (8).
   (c)   As-built records. Permittee, without expense to municipality, shall,
upon forty-eight (48) hours notice, give municipality access to all “as-built”
maps, records, plans and specifications showing the facilities or portions
thereof in the public right-of-way. Upon request by municipality, permittee
shall inform municipality as soon as reasonably possible of any changes from
previously supplied maps, records or plans and shall mark up maps provided by
municipality so as to show the location of the facilities.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 15-89 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (a)   [Reserved.]
   (b)   Overlashing. Permittee shall not allow the wires or any other
facilities of a third party to be overlashed to permittee’s facilities without
municipality’s prior written consent. Municipality’s right to withhold written
consent is subject to the authority of the MPSC under Section 361 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, MCLA § 484.2361.
   (c)   No burden on public right-of-way.  Permittee, its contractors,
subcontractors and the facilities shall not unduly burden or interfere with the
present or future use of any of the public rights-of-way. Permittee’s aerial
cables and wires shall be suspended so as to not endanger or injure persons or
property in or about the public right-of-way. If municipality reasonably
determines that any portion of the facilities constitutes an undue burden or
interference, due to changed circumstances, permittee, at its sole expense,
shall modify the facilities or take such other actions that municipality may
determine is in the public interest to remove or alleviate the burden, and
permittee shall do so within a reasonable time period. Municipality shall
attempt to require all occupants of a pole or conduit whose facilities are a
burden to remove or alleviate the burden concurrently.
   (d)   No priority. This ordinance does not establish any priority of use of
the public right-of-way by permittee over any present or future permittees or
parties having agreements with municipality or franchises for such use. In the
event of any dispute as to the priority of use of the public right-of-way, the
first priority shall be to the public generally, the second priority to
municipality, the third priority to the State of Michigan and its political
subdivisions in the performance of their various functions, and thereafter as
between other permit, agreement or franchise holders, as determined (except as
otherwise provided by law) by municipality in the exercise of its powers,
including the police power and other powers reserved to and conferred on it by
the State of Michigan.
   (e)   Restoration of property. Permittee, its contractors and subcontractors
shall immediately (subject to seasonal work restrictions) restore, at
permittee’s sole expense, in a manner approved by municipality, any portion of
the public right-of-way that is in any way disturbed, damaged, or injured by
the construction, installation, operation, maintenance or removal of the
facilities to a reasonably equivalent (or, at permittee’s option, better)
condition as that which existed prior to the disturbance. In the event that
permittee, its contractors or subcontractors fail to make such repair within a
reasonable time, municipality may make the repair and permittee shall pay the
costs municipality incurred for the repair.
   (f)   Marking. Permittee shall mark its facilities installed after the
effective date of this ordinance as follows: Aerial portions of the facilities
shall be marked with a marker on permittee’s lines on alternate poles which
shall state permittee’s name and provide a toll-free number to call for
assistance. Direct buried underground portions of the facilities shall have:
(1) a conducting wire placed in the ground at least several inches above
permittee’s cable (if such cable is nonconductive); (2) at least several inches
above that, a continuous colored tape with a statement to the effect that there
is buried cable beneath; and (3) stakes or other appropriate above-ground
markers with permittee’s name and a toll-free number indicating that there is
buried cable below. Bored underground portions of the facilities shall have a
conducting wire at the same depth as the cable and shall not be required to
provide the continuous colored tape. Portions of the facilities located in
conduit, including conduit of others used by permittee, shall be marked at its
entrance into and exit from each manhole and handhole with permittee’s name and
a toll-free telephone number.
   (g)   Tree trimming. Permittee may trim trees upon and overhanging the
public right-of-way so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming
into contact with the facilities, consistent with any standards adopted by
municipality. Permittee shall dispose of all trimmed materials. Permittee shall
minimize the trimming of trees to that essential to maintain the integrity of
the facilities. Except in emergencies, all trimming of trees in the public
right-of-way shall have the advance approval of Manager.
   (h)   Installation and maintenance. The construction and installation of the
facilities shall be performed pursuant to plans approved by municipality. The
open cut of any public right-of-way shall be coordinated with the Manager or
Manager’s designee. Permittee shall install and maintain the facilities in a
reasonably safe condition. If the existing poles in the public right-of-way are
overburdened or unavailable for permittee’s use, or the facilities of all users
of the poles are required to go underground, then permittee shall, at its
expense, place such portion of its facilities underground, unless municipality
approves an alternate location. Permittee may perform maintenance on the
facilities without prior approval of municipality, provided that permittee
shall obtain any and all permits required by municipality in the event that any
maintenance will disturb or block vehicular traffic or are otherwise required
by municipality.
   (i)   Pavement cut coordination. 
      (1)   Permittee shall coordinate its construction and all other work in
the public right-of-way with municipality’s program for street construction and
rebuilding (collectively “street construction”) and its program for street
repaving and resurfacing (except seal coating and patching) (collectively,
“street resurfacing”).
      (2)   The goals of such coordination shall be to encourage permittee to
conduct all work in the public right-of-way in conjunction with or immediately
prior to any street construction or street resurfacing planned by municipality.
   (j)   Compliance with laws. Permittee shall comply with all valid and
enforceable Federal and State statutes and regulations; and all valid and
enforceable local regulations regarding the use and occupation of the public
right-of-way, including the police powers of municipality, regarding the
construction, installation, and maintenance of its facilities, now in force or
which hereafter may be promulgated. Before any installation is commenced,
permittee shall secure all necessary permits, licenses and approvals from
municipality or other governmental entity as may be required by law, including,
without limitation, all utility line permits and highway permits. Municipality
shall not unreasonably delay or deny issuance of any such permits, licenses or
approvals. Permittee shall comply in all respects with applicable codes and
industry standards, including but not limited to the National Electrical Safety
Code (latest edition adopted by Michigan Public Service Commission) and the
National Electrical Code (latest edition). Permittee shall comply with all
zoning and land use ordinances and historic preservation ordinances as may
exist or may hereafter be amended. This section does not constitute a waiver of
permittee’s right to challenge laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations
now in force or established in the future.
   (k)   Street vacation. If municipality vacates or consents to the vacation
of public right-of-way within its jurisdiction, and such vacation necessitates
the removal and relocation of permittee’s facilities in the vacated public
right-of-way, permittee shall consent to the vacation and remove its facilities
at its sole cost and expense when ordered to do so by municipality or a Court
of competent jurisdiction. Permittee shall relocate its facilities to such
alternate route as municipality and permittee mutually agree, applying
reasonable engineering standards.
   (l)   Relocation. If municipality requests permittee to relocate, protect,
support, disconnect or remove its facilities because of street or utility work,
or other public projects, permittee shall relocate, protect, support,
disconnect, or remove its facilities, at its sole cost and expense, including
where necessary to such alternate route as municipality and permittee mutually
agree, applying reasonable engineering standards. The work shall be completed
within a reasonable time period.
   (m)   Public emergency. Municipality shall have the right to sever, disrupt,
dig up or otherwise destroy facilities of permittee if such action is necessary
because of a public emergency. If reasonable to do so under the circumstances,
municipality shall attempt to provide notice to permittee. Public emergency
shall be any condition which poses an immediate threat to life, health or
property caused by any natural or manmade disaster, including, but not limited
to, storms, floods, fire, accidents, explosions, water main breaks, hazardous
material spills, etc. Permittee shall be responsible for repair at its sole
cost and expense of any of its facilities damaged pursuant to any such action
taken by municipality.
   (n)   Miss Dig. If eligible to join, permittee shall subscribe to and be a
member of “Miss Dig,” the association of utilities formed pursuant to Act 53 of
the Public Acts of 1974, as amended, MCLA §§ 460.701 et seq., and shall conduct
its business in conformance with the statutory provisions and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   (o)   Underground relocation. If permittee has its facilities on poles of
Consumers Energy, Detroit Edison or another electric or telecommunications
provider and Consumers Energy, Detroit Edison or such other electric or
telecommunications provider relocates its system underground, then permittee
shall relocate its facilities underground in the same location at permittee’s
sole cost and expense.
   (p)   Identification. All personnel of permittee and its contractors or
subcontractors, who have as part of their normal duties contact with the
general public, shall wear on their clothing a clearly visible identification
card bearing permittee’s name, their name and photograph. Permittee shall
account for all identification cards at all times. Every service vehicle of
permittee and its contractors or subcontractors shall be clearly identified as
such to the public, such as by a magnetic sign with permittee’s name and
telephone number.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Protection of underground facilities, see MCLA 460.701 et seq.
§ 15-90 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (a)   Indemnity. Permittee shall defend, indemnify, protect, and hold
harmless municipality, its officers, agents, employees, elected and appointed
officials, departments, boards, and commissions from any and all claims,
losses, liabilities, causes of action, demands, judgments, decrees,
proceedings, and expenses of any nature (collectively “claims”) (including,
without limitation, attorneys’ fees) arising out of or resulting from the acts
or omissions of permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors,
successors, or assigns, but only to the extent such acts or omissions are
related to permittee’s use of or installation of facilities in the public
right-of-way and only to the extent of the fault or responsibility of
permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, successors and
assigns.
   (b)   Notice, cooperation. Municipality shall notify permittee promptly in
writing of any such claims and the method and means proposed by municipality
for defending or satisfying any such claims. Municipality shall cooperate with
permittee in every reasonable way to facilitate the defense of any such claims.
Municipality shall consult with permittee respecting the defense and
satisfaction of such claims, including the selection and direction of legal
counsel.
   (c)   Settlement. Municipality shall not settle any claim subject to
indemnification under the preceding two sections without the advance written
consent of permittee, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Permittee shall have the right to defend or settle, at its own expense, any
claim against municipality for which permittee is responsible hereunder.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 15-91 INSURANCE.
   (a)   Coverage required. Prior to beginning any construction in or
installation of permittee’s facilities in the public right-of-way, permittee
shall obtain insurance as set forth below and file certificates evidencing same
with municipality. Such insurance shall be maintained in full force and effect
until the end of the term of its franchise agreement or preexisting agreement
(whichever is then in effect). In the alternative, permittee may satisfy this
requirement through a program of self-insurance, acceptable to municipality, by
providing reasonable evidence of its financial resources to municipality.
Municipality’s acceptance of such self-insurance shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including completed
operations liability, independent contractors liability, contractual liability
coverage, railroad protective coverage and coverage for property damage from
perils of explosion, collapse or damage to underground utilities, commonly
known as XCU coverage, in an amount not less than five million dollars
($5,000,000.00).
      (2)   Liability insurance for sudden and accidental environmental
contamination with minimum limits of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) and providing coverage for claims discovered within three (3)
years after the term of the policy. Pursuant to the 2006 MPSC decision in case
U-14720, permittee need not comply with the preceding sentence until such time
after the effective date of this ordinance that it decides to place any new or
existing facilities underground within the public right-of-way in municipality.
      (3)   Automobile liability insurance in an amount not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      (4)   Workers’ compensation and employer’s liability insurance with
statutory limits, and any applicable Federal insurance of a similar nature.
      (5)   The coverage amounts set forth above may be met by a combination of
underlying (primary) and umbrella policies so long as in combination the limits
equal or exceed those stated. If more than one insurance policy is purchased to
provide the coverage amounts set forth above, then all policies providing
coverage limits excess to the primary policy shall provide drop down coverage
to the first dollar of coverage and other contractual obligations of the
primary policy, should the primary policy carrier not be able to perform any of
its contractual obligations or not be collectible for any of its coverages for
any reason during the term of the franchise agreement or preexisting agreement
(whichever is then in effect), or (when longer) for as long as coverage could
have been available pursuant to the terms and conditions of the primary policy.
   (b)   Additional insured. Municipality shall be named as an additional
insured on all policies (other than worker’s compensation and employer’s
liability). All insurance policies shall provide that they shall not be
canceled, modified or not renewed unless the insurance carrier provides thirty
(30) days prior written notice to municipality. Permittee shall annually
provide municipality with a certificate of insurance evidencing such coverage.
All insurance policies (other than environmental contamination, workers’
compensation and employer’s liability insurance) shall be written on an
occurrence basis and not on a claims- made basis.
   (c)   Qualified insurers.  All insurance shall be issued by insurance
carriers licensed to do business by the State of Michigan or by surplus line
carriers on the Michigan Insurance Commission approved list of companies
qualified to do business in Michigan. All insurance and surplus line carriers
shall be rated A+ or better by A.M. Best Company.
   (d)   Deductibles. If the insurance policies required by this ordinance are
written with retainages or deductibles in excess of $50,000.00, they shall be
approved by Manager in advance in writing. Permittee shall indemnify and save
harmless municipality from and against the payment of any deductible and from
the payment of any premium on any insurance policy required to be furnished
hereunder.
   (e)   Contractors. Permittee’s contractors and subcontractors working in the
public right-of-way shall carry in full force and effect commercial general
liability, environmental contamination liability, automobile liability and
workers’ compensation and employer liability insurance which complies with all
terms of this section. In the alternative, permittee, at its expense, may
provide such coverages for any or all its contractors or subcontractors (such
as by adding them to permittee’s policies).
   (f)   Insurance primary. Permittee’s insurance coverage shall be primary
insurance with respect to municipality, its officers, agents, employees,
elected and appointed officials, departments, boards and commissions
(collectively “them”). Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by any of
them shall be in excess of permittee’s insurance and shall not contribute to it
(where “insurance or self-insurance maintained by any of them” includes any
contract or agreement providing any type of indemnification or defense
obligation provided to, or for the benefit of them, from any source, and
includes any self-insurance program or policy, or self-insured retention or
deductible by, for or on behalf of them).
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
Statutory reference:
   MPSC Order of February 21, 2006 in re: Case No. U-14720
§ 15-92 PERFORMANCE BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT.
   Municipal requirement: Municipality may require permittee to post a bond (or
letter of credit), in the amount provided in Section 15(3) of the Metro Act, as
amended, MCLA § 484.3115(3) (Note: Does not apply after December 3, 2015).
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 15-93 REMOVAL.
   (a)   Removal; underground. As soon as practicable after the later of the
term of its franchise agreement or preexisting agreement expires, permittee or
its successors and assigns shall remove any underground cable or other portions
of permittee’s facilities from the public right-of-way which has been installed
in such a manner that it can be removed without trenching or other opening of
the public right-of-way. Permittee shall not remove any underground cable or
other portions of the facilities which requires trenching or other opening of
the public right-of-way except with the prior written approval of Manager. All
removals shall be at permittee’s sole cost and expense.
      (1)   For purposes of this §
15-93(a), CABLE means any wire, coaxial cable, fiber optic cable, feed wire or
pull wire.
   (b)   Removal; above ground. As soon as practicable after the later of the
expiration of the term of its franchise agreement or preexisting agreement,
permittee, or its successor or assigns at its sole cost and expense, shall,
unless waived in writing by Manager, remove from the public right-of-way all
above-ground elements of its facilities, including but not limited to poles,
pedestal-mounted terminal boxes, and lines attached to or suspended from poles.
   (c)   Schedule. The schedule and timing of removal shall be subject to
approval by Manager. Unless extended by Manager, removal shall be completed not
later than twelve (12) months following the expiration of the later of the term
of a franchise agreement or preexisting agreement. Portions of permittee’s
facilities in the public right-of-way that are not removed within such time
period shall be deemed abandoned and, at the option of municipality exercised
by written notice to permittee at the address provided for in the franchise
agreement or preexisting agreement (whichever was last in effect), title to the
portions described in such notice shall vest in municipality.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 15-94 OTHER ITEMS.
   (a)   Duties. Permittees shall faithfully perform all duties required by
this ordinance.
   (b)   Different terms. The Act allows local units of government and video
service providers to enter into voluntary franchise agreements that include
terms and conditions which are different from those required under the Act or
which are different from those in the standardized, uniform form of franchise
agreement established by the MPSC. The Metro Act allows municipalities and
providers to mutually agree to Metro Act permit terms differing from those in
the standard forms of Metro Act permit approved by the MPSC. Current or
prospective permittees who desire terms different from those in this article,
as applied to them, should request such a voluntary franchise agreement or a
mutually agreed to Metro Act permit from municipality.
   (c)   Interpretation and severability. The provisions of this ordinance
shall be liberally construed to protect and preserve the peace, health, safety
and welfare of the public, and should any provision or section of this
ordinance be held unconstitutional, invalid, overbroad or otherwise
unenforceable, such determination/holding shall not be construed as affecting
the validity of any of the remaining conditions of this ordinance. If any
provision in this ordinance is found to be partially overbroad, unenforceable,
or invalid, permittee and municipality may nevertheless enforce such provision
to the extent permitted under applicable law.
   (d)   Violations. A permittee who violates any provision of this ordinance
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to such
civil infraction fines and costs as prescribed in §
1-7 of the Municipal Code. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
the remedies available to municipality in the event of a violation by a
permittee of this ordinance.
   (e)   Authorized officials. The Mayor’s designee is hereby designated as the
authorized official of municipality to issue municipal civil infraction
citations (directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil
infraction violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the
Municipal Chapter Violations Bureau) for violations of this ordinance, as
provided by municipality’s ordinances or Municipal Code.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
§ 15-95 REPEALER.
   All ordinances, resolutions or rules, parts of ordinances, resolutions or
rules inconsistent with the provisions hereof are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 3760, passed 11-23-2009)
CHAPTER 16: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
16-1   Agency designated to enforce Code
   
16-1.1   Repealer
   
16-2   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
§ 16-1 AGENCY DESIGNATED TO ENFORCE CODE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Electrical Code, in accordance
with Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of
the City of Flint is hereby designated as the enforcing agent to discharge the
responsibilities of the City of Flint under Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972,
as amended, State of Michigan. The City of Flint, through its Department of
Public Works and Utilities, Building and Safety Inspections Division, by
adoption of this ordinance, assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of the State of Michigan Electrical Code in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2462, passed 10-23-1974; Ord. 2493, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 2629, passed
4-24-1978; Ord. 3027, passed 2-9-1987; Ord. 3213, passed 7-13-1992; Ord. 3224,
passed 12-14-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see
Ch. 11
   Christmas trees, electrical devices use for sale of, see §
12-89
   License fees, see
Ch. 26
   Poles and Wires, see
Ch. 37
Statutory reference:
   State Construction Code Act, see MCLA §§ 125.1501 et seq.
§ 16-1.1 REPEALER.
   All ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance are
repealed.
(Ord. 3224, passed 12-14-1992)
§ 16-2 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §
16-1 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3552, passed 6-9-2004)
CHAPTER 17: FENCES
Section
   
17-1   Definitions
   
17-2   Permit required
   
17-3   Same — fees
   
17-4   Restrictions on fence construction generally
   
17-5   Maintenance; dangerous fences deemed nuisance; abatement
   
17-6   Establishing of lot lines may be required
   
17-7   Board of Appeals to hear and act on appeals
   
17-99   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
Cross-reference:
   Junkyards, fences for, see §
12-67.1
   Parks, fences in, see §
33-2
§ 17-1 DEFINITIONS.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, or gate, erected as a dividing marker,
barrier or enclosure.
   GRADE. Ground level adjacent to the fence on either side.
   ZONE CLASSIFICATIONS. Those of
Chapter 50.
(Ord. 1375, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 17-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No fence shall be hereafter erected or altered without first obtaining a
permit from the Division of Building and Safety Inspections of the City of
Flint.
(Ord. 1375, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 17-3 SAME — FEES.
   A fence shall be considered as a structure for the purpose of figuring the
permit fee.
(Ord. 1375, passed 4-8-1957; Ord. 2469, passed 11-25-1974)
§ 17-4 RESTRICTIONS ON FENCE CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY.
   (a)   On residentially A, B or C zoned property, fences located fifty (50)
feet or more back from the front property line, and in the case of a corner
lot, behind the side street building line, shall not exceed six (6) feet in
height. In the remaining locations on this property, a fence shall not exceed
five (5) feet in height and not more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of
any five-foot long, five-foot high section shall be solid matter or closed
construction. Provided, however, that fences not exceeding six (6) feet in
height may be erected on perimeters of church and school property adjacent to
residential property. Provided, further that fences not more than six (6) feet
high may be erected not less than twenty-five (25) feet back from the front
property line if existing residential buildings are located not less than eight
(8) feet from the property line on adjoining lots. Barbed wire is prohibited.
   (b)   On all commercially D zoned property, fences shall not be constructed
over seven (7) feet, six (6) inches in height. Barbed wire may be installed in
the top one (1) foot of such fence on arms or supports projecting over the
private property side of the fence, the lowest strand at least six (6) feet,
six (6) inches above the grade on that side. Fences over six (6) feet in
height, exclusive of barbed wire, shall be constructed of incombustible
material except for posts and supporting members.
   (c)   On industrially E and F zoned property, fences may be of unlimited
height and barbed wire may be used as in subsection (b) above. Fences over six
(6) feet in height, exclusive of barbed wire, shall be constructed of
incombustible material except for posts and supporting members.
   (d)   Gates in fences shall not open over public property. All gates shall
be so constructed that not over fifty percent (50%) of the horizontal,
projected area shall be solid matter or closed construction.
   (e)   When adjoining properties differ in zoned use, the requirements of a
fence on that property line may be that of the least restrictive, regardless of
the party erecting the fence.
   (f)   No fence shall be charged or connected with an electrical current in
such a manner as to transmit said current to persons, animals, or things which
might intentionally or accidentally come in contact with it.
   (g)   Fences of greater heights than heretofore permitted may be constructed
for special purposes such as play areas, tennis courts, industrial complexes,
sports complexes etc., when approved by the Director of Building and Safety
Inspection.
   (h)   No building wall, retaining wall, or similar structure shall be
considered to be a part of a fence. Said walls shall be constructed in
accordance with the requirements of the Building Code.
(Ord. 1375, passed 4-8-1957; Ord. 1997, passed 9-11-1967; Ord. 2385, passed 3-
19-1973; Ord. 2469, passed 11-25-1974)
§ 17-5 MAINTENANCE; DANGEROUS FENCES DEEMED NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Fences must be maintained so as not to endanger life or property. Any fence
which, through lack of maintenance or type of construction or otherwise,
imperils life or property, shall be deemed a nuisance. The Director of Building
and Safety Inspections, of the City of Flint, shall notify the owner of the
property on which such fence is located of the existence of such nuisance and
said nuisance shall be abated within six (6) days after receiving notice.
(Ord. 1375, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 17-6 ESTABLISHING OF LOT LINES MAY BE REQUIRED.
   The Director of Building and Safety Inspections may require the owner of
property upon which a fence is located or is to be located to establish lot
lines upon said property through placing of permanent markers located by a
licensed surveyor. Said lot lines shall be established within five (5) days
after receiving notice.
(Ord. 1375, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 17-7 BOARD OF APPEALS TO HEAR AND ACT ON APPEALS.
   The Building Board of Appeals as constituted under the Building Code of the
City of Flint shall hear and act on appeals from interpretations of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 2469, passed 11-25-1974)
§ 17-99 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §§
17-2,
17-4,
17-5 or
17-6 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3553, passed 6-9-2004)
CHAPTER 18: TAXATION; FUNDS; PURCHASING *
Section
Article I. In General
   
18-1   Investment in certificates of deposit or United States government
obligations
   
18-2   Enforcement of licensing provisions
   
18-3   Penalty for failure to renew license on time
   
18-4   Charge for description of land sold at judicial sale
   
18-4.1   Service charge in lieu of taxes for housing facilities for certain
persons
   
18-4.1.1   Payment schedule
   
18-4.2   Same — definitions
   
18-4.3   Same — class of housing development
   
18-4.4   Same — negotiation and establishment of annual service charge
   
18-4.5   Same — contractual effect
   
18-4.6   Same — payment of service charge
   
18-4.7   Same — duration
   
18-4.8   Same — inapplicable housing developments; revocation of tax exemption
Article II. Assessments
   
18-5   Board of Review created; composition; qualification of members
   
18-5.1   Same — appointment, removal, term of members; filling of vacancies;
Clerk; records
   
18-5.2   Same — authority to adopt rules necessary for conduct of business
   
18-5.3   Same — meeting; submission of assessment roll
   
18-5.4   Same — duties
   
18-6   Time for making tax roll
   
18-7   Special Assessment Relief Board created; membership
   
18-8   Same — investigation of requests for relief; report and recommendation
   
18-9   Award of relief from assessments
   
18-10   Payment of special assessment by City; taking of mortgage and note to
assure repayment to City
   
18-11   Board of Special Assessors created; composition; duties generally;
compensation
   
18-11.1   Authority of Council to levy special assessments for public
improvements
   
18-11.2   Special assessments to be declared by resolution of Council
   
18-11.3   Estimate of cost of public improvement; plans for work and plat;
notice of proposed improvement
   
18-11.4   Resolution of Council directing Board of Special Assessors to make
assessments; contents
   
18-11.5   Resolution authorizing expense to be incurred upon lot or parcels of
land not in special assessment district
   
18-11.6   Preparation of special assessment roll
   
18-11.7   Determination of amount of special assessment; report of completion
of special assessment roll
   
18-11.8   Filing of special assessment roll; notice of filing; objections to
assessment
   
18-11.9   Review of special assessment roll; hearing of objections; special
assessment record
   
18-11.10   Special assessment to be final and conclusive when confirmed by
Board of Special Assessors
   
18-11.11   Assessment to constitute a lien
   
18-11.12   Payment of special assessments
   
18-11.13   Recording of special assessments; official collection record
   
18-11.14   Reassessment
   
18-11.15   Equitable lien for special assessment not to be impaired
   
18-11.16   Collection of special assessments generally; delinquent payments
   
18-11.17   Refusal to pay special assessment; authority of City to seize and
levy upon personal property
   
18-11.18   Collection of special assessment by suit
   
18-11.19   Court may render judgment for amount properly chargeable
   
18-11.20   Monies raised by special assessments to be held as special funds
   
18-11.21   City to advertise for proposals for making improvements
   
18-11.22   Apportionment of special assessment where lot or parcel is divided
after assessment confirmed
Article III. Funds
Division 1. Atwood Stadium Trust Fund
   
18-12   Created
Division 2. Parks and Recreation Endowment Fund
   
18-13   Created
   
18-14   Advisory Board created; membership; terms; compensation
   
18-15   Duties of Advisory Board with regard to use and expenditure of
endowment funds
   18-16, 18-17   Reserved
Article IV. Purchases
   
18-18   Short title
   
18-19   Definitions
   
18-20   Director of Purchases and Supplies
   
18-21   Director to have supervision of purchase and distribution of supplies,
materials and equipment
   
18-21.1   Additional duties and responsibilities of Director
   
18-21.2   Requisition and estimates
   
18-21.3   Encumbrance of funds
   
18-21.4   Competitive bidding required
   
18-21.5   Formal contract procedure
   
18-21.6   Open market procedure
   
18-21.7   Petty expenditures revolving fund
   
18-21.8   Central warehousing; storeroom’s revolving fund
   
18-21.9   Price agreement contract procedure
   
18-21.10   Emergency purchases
   
18-21.11   Inspection and testing
   
18-21.12   Surplus supplies
   
18-21.13   Cooperative purchasing
   
18-21.14   Sale or lease of City owned property
Article V. Uniform City Income Tax
   
18-22   Adopted
   
18-23   Amendments
Article VI. Delinquent Taxes
   
18-24   Delivery to County Treasurer for collection
   
18-25   Notice, disposition, judgment and period of redemption for delinquent
general property taxes
   
18-26   Rights, duties, powers, immunities and procedures of County Treasurer
relative to real property taxes delivered for collection
   
18-26.1   Administration fee
   
18-26.2   Late penalty charge
   
18-26.3   Collection fee
   
18-26.4   Administration fee — due date established by Charter
   
18-26.5   Collection fee — due date established by Charter
   
18-26.6   Late penalty charge — due date established by Charter
Article VII. Expenditure of Appropriated Funds
   
18-27   Grievance upon refusal of City agency to expend appropriated funds —
right of aggrieved person to demand hearing
   
18-27.1   Gratuitous contributions to the City shall be formally accepted by
resolution of the City Council
   
18-28   Same — notification of hearing
   
18-29   Same — remedy by Council
Article VIII. Countercyclical Budget and Economic Stabilization Fund
   
18-30   Created
   
18-31   Appropriation for fund
   
18-32   Limitation on amount of money in fund
   
18-33   Purpose for which fund may be used
   
18-34   Purposes for which fund may not be used
   18-35 – 18-39   Reserved
Article IX. Agencies Created by Council Receiving Funds from City
   
18-40   Notification of Council on expenditure over $2,000.00
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 18-1 INVESTMENT IN CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT OR UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
OBLIGATIONS.
   In addition to the limits upon general deposits contained in this Code, the
Director of Finance is hereby authorized to invest temporarily in certificates
of deposit or United States government obligations, monies received from the
sale of bonds and not currently encumbered or immediately required for
construction of the projects for which such bonds have been sold.
(Ord. 1661, passed 1-22-1962)
§ 18-2 ENFORCEMENT OF LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator, Chief of Police, Director of
Public Works and Utilities, City Clerk and Director of Public Health, or their
assistants or other duly designated representatives, to enforce all licensing
provisions of this Code or other ordinances of the City of Flint.
§ 18-3 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO RENEW LICENSE ON TIME.
   All fees for the renewal of licenses issued under the ordinances of the City
of Flint which are not paid at the time they shall be due shall be paid as
“late fees,” which shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of
the City Code.
(Ord. 2521, passed 10-13-1975; Ord. 3431, passed 2-22-1999)
§ 18-4 CHARGE FOR DESCRIPTION OF LAND SOLD AT JUDICIAL SALE.
   On each description of land which is to be sold at judicial sale for unpaid
taxes and assessments, as provided in the Charter and the statutes of the
State, there shall be charged a fee for expenses and costs which shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. Such charge
shall be a lien on the land and when collected shall belong to the general fund
of the City.
(Ord. 457, passed 2-5-1942; Ord. 3405, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 18-4.1 SERVICE CHARGE IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR HOUSING FACILITIES FOR CERTAIN
PERSONS.
   (a)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of
low income and to encourage the development of such housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with State Housing
Development Authority Act, being Act 346 of the Acts of 1966, being MCLA §§
125.1401 et seq., as amended. The City of Flint is authorized by said Act to
establish or charge a service charge to be paid in lieu of taxes by any or all
classes of housing exempt from taxation under the act at any amount it chooses,
not to exceed the taxes that would be paid but for the Act. It is further
acknowledged that such housing for persons of low income is a public necessity
and as the City of Flint will be benefitted and improved by such housing, the
encouragement of the same by providing certain real estate tax exemption
therefor is a valid public purpose; further, the continuance of the provisions
of §§
18-4.1 through
18-4.8 hereof for tax exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during
the periods hereinafter contemplated are essential to the determination of
economic feasibility of housing developments which are constructed and financed
in reliance thereon.
   (b)   The City acknowledges that River Village 2010 Limited Dividend Housing
Association L.L.C, a Michigan Limited Liability Company, has offered, subject
to receipt of a mortgage loan from the Authority for an Authority-aided or
federally-aided mortgage, to acquire, renovate, own and operate a housing
development on certain property located in what has been identified as the
Doyle urban renewal area and the Oak Park urban renewal area in the City to
serve elderly persons and persons of low income, and that River Village has
offered to pay the City on account of said development an annual service charge
for public services in lieu of all taxes. The City further acknowledges that
the River Village Project (previously known as the Oxford Project) fits within
the class as described in §
18-4.3. The annual service charge shall be equal to 4% of the difference
between the contract rents actually collected and utilities; however, the
service charge shall not exceed taxes that would be paid absent this tax
exemption.
   (c)   The City acknowledges that Wendall Addington, subject to receipt of a
mortgage loan from the Authority, will duly organize Flint Limited Dividend
Housing Association (FLDHA), a limited partnership, to erect, own and operate a
housing development identified as Schafer Square Apartments on certain property
located in the Doyle urban renewal area in the City to serve persons of low
income, and that the FLDHA has offered to pay the City on account of this
housing development an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all
taxes. The City further acknowledges that the Schafer Square Apartments Housing
Project fits within the class as described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge shall be equal to 4% of the difference
between the contract rents actually collected and utilities; however, the
service charge shall not exceed taxes which would have been paid absent this
tax exemption.
   (d)   The City acknowledges that Wendall Addington, subject to receipt of a
mortgage loan from the Authority, will duly organize Atherton Limited Dividend
Housing Association (ALDHA), a limited partnership, to erect, own and operate a
housing development identified as Rosehaven Manor Apartments on certain
property located at the southwest corner of Atherton and Hammerberg Roads in
the City to serve elderly persons of low income, and that the ALDHA has offered
to pay the City on account of this housing development an annual service charge
for public services in lieu of all taxes. The City further acknowledges that
the Rosehaven Manor Apartments housing project fits within the class as
described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge shall be equal to 4% of the difference
between the contract rents actually collected and utilities. However, the
service charge shall not exceed taxes which would be paid absent this tax
exemption.
   (e)   The City acknowledges that Court Street Village nonprofit housing
corporation (“nonprofit”), subject to receipt of a mortgage loan from the
Authority, will duly organize Court Street Village Limited Dividend Housing
Association limited dividend partnership (“limited partnership”) to erect, own
and operate a housing development identified as Court Street Village on certain
property located in the Central Park urban renewal area at Court Street and
Avon Streets in the City to serve elderly persons of low income and that the
limited partnership has offered to pay the City on account of this housing
development an annual service charge for public services in lieu of taxes. The
City acknowledges that the Court Street Village elderly housing shall be
afforded tax benefits of paying a service charge in lieu of taxes. The City
further acknowledges that Court Street Village fits within the class as
described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge for the class of elderly persons of low
income shall be equal to 4% of the difference between contract rents actually
collected and utilities; however, the service charge shall not exceed taxes
which would be paid absent this tax exemption.
   (f)   The City acknowledges that Flint Community Development Corporation
(FCDC), subject to receipt of a mortgage loan from the Authority, will duly
organize Carriage Town Limited Dividend Housing Association Limited Partnership
to erect, own and operate a housing development identified as Carriage Town
Square Apartments on certain property located in the Grand Traverse Urban
Renewal Area at Grand Traverse and Water Streets in the City to serve persons
of low income and that the FCDC has offered to pay the City on account of this
housing development an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all
taxes. The City further acknowledges that Carriage Town Square Apartments fit
within the class described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge shall be equal to 4% of the difference
between the contract rents actually collected and utilities; however, the
service charge shall not exceed taxes which would be paid absent this tax
exemption.
   (g)   The City acknowledges that Court Street Village Nonprofit Housing
Corporation or its assigns, subject to receipt of a mortgage loan from the
authority, will erect, own and operate a housing development identified as Avon
Park on certain property located on Lapeer Street in the City to serve persons
of low income and that the nonprofit housing corporation has offered to pay the
City on account of this housing development an annual service charge for public
services in lieu of taxes. The City acknowledges that the Avon Park Housing
Development shall be afforded tax benefits of paying a service charge in lieu
of taxes. The City further acknowledges that Avon Park fits within the class
described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge shall be equal to 4% of the difference
between the contract rents actually collected and utilities; however, the
service charge shall not exceed taxes which would be paid absent this tax
exemption.
   (h)   The City acknowledges that Court Street Village Nonprofit Housing
Corporation, subject to receipt of a mortgage loan from Republic Bank, will
duly organize Court Street Village South Limited Dividend Housing Association
Limited Dividend Partnership (“limited partnership”) to own and operate a
housing development identified as Court Street Village South on certain
property located in the interchange urban renewal area at Avon, Sixth and
Lapeer Streets in the City to serve elderly persons of low income and that the
limited partnership has offered to pay the City on account of this housing
development an annual service charge for public services in lieu of taxes. The
City acknowledges that the Court Street South elderly housing shall be afforded
tax benefits of paying a service charge in lieu of taxes. The City further
acknowledges that Court Street South fits within the class as described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge for the class of elderly persons of low
income shall be equal to 4% of the difference between the collected rents
actually collected and utilities; however, the service charge shall not exceed
taxes which would be paid absent this tax exemption.
   (i)   The City acknowledges that Taylor Manor II Incorporated and Synergy
Community Development Corporation subject to receipt of a federal aided
mortgage and the authority providing a low income housing tax credit under
Section 22b, will duly organize Limited Dividend Housing Association Limited
Dividend Partnership (“limited dividend”) to rehabilitate, own and operate a
housing development identified as Clio Woods Apartments on certain property
located at 6900 Clio Road in the City to serve persons of low income and that
the limited partnership has offered to pay the City on account of this housing
development an annual service charge for public services in lieu of taxes. The
City acknowledges that the Clio Woods Apartments shall be afforded tax benefits
of paying a service charge in lieu of taxes The City further acknowledges that
Clio Woods Apartments fits within the class as described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge for the class of persons of low income
shall be equal to 4% of the difference between the contract rents actually
collected and utilities; however, the service charge shall not exceed taxes
which would be paid absent this tax exemption.
   (j)   The City acknowledges that Painia Development has offered, subject to
receipt of a mortgage loan from the authority or a federally-aided
mortgage, to erect, own and operate a housing development identified as Shiloh
Commons on certain property located at the Old Northern High School Site and
the proposed housing development is located in an area of the City to serve
persons of low income, and that Painia Development Corporation has offered to
pay the City on account of the development an annual service charge for public
services in lieu of all taxes. The City further acknowledges that the Shiloh
Commons Housing Development fits within the class as described in §
18-4.3. The annual service charge shall be equal to 4% of the difference
between contract rents actually collected and utilities; however, the service
charge shall not exceed taxes that would be paid absent this tax exemption.
   (k)   The City acknowledges that Mary A. Rolfe & Associates, Inc. subject to
receipt of a mortgage and the authority providing a low income housing tax
credit under Section 22b, will duly organize a limited dividend housing
association dividend partnership (“Limited Dividend”) to construct, own, and
operate a housing development identified as Eagle Ridge Square on certain
property generally bounded by Russell Street on the north, Selby on the east,
and Gracelawn Cemetery on the west and south, Parcel Number 7-30-301-004,
located in the City to serve persons of low income and that the limited
partnership has offered to pay the City on account of the housing development
an annual service charge of public services in lieu of taxes. The City
acknowledges that the Eagle Ridge Square shall be afforded the tax benefits of
paying a service charge in lieu of taxes. The City further acknowledges that
Eagle Ridge Square fits within the class as described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge for the class of persons of low income
shall be equal to 4% of the difference between the contract rents actually
collected and utilities; however, the service charge shall not exceed taxes
which would be paid absent this tax exemption.
   (l)   The City acknowledges that Jupiter/McGill Housing Group and Odyssey
Housing Development Corporation subject to a receipt of a federal aided
mortgage and the authority providing a low income housing tax credit under
Section 22b, will duly organize a limited dividend housing association limited
dividend partnership (“limited dividend”) to construct, own and operate a
housing development identified as Durant Apartments on certain property located
at 607 East Second Avenue, located in the City to serve persons of low income
and that the limited partnership has offered to pay the City on account of the
housing development an annual service charge of public services in lieu of
taxes. The City acknowledges that the Durant Apartments fits within the class
as described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge for the class of persons of low income
shall be equal to 4% of the difference between the collected rents actually
collected and utilities; however, the service charge shall not exceed taxes
which would be paid absent this tax exemption.
   (m)   The City acknowledges that Lapeer Gardens Arbor Villa subject to a
receipt of a federal aided mortgage and the authority providing a low income
housing tax credit under Section 22b, will duly organize a limited dividend
housing association limited dividend partnership (“limited dividend”) to
construct, own and operate a housing development identified as Lapeer Gardens
Arbor Villa on certain property located at 2324 Lapeer Road, located in the
City to serve persons of low income and that the limited partnership has
offered to pay the City on account of the housing development an annual service
charge of public services in lieu of taxes. The City acknowledges that the
Lapeer Garden Arbor Villa fits within the class as described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge for the class of persons of low income
shall be equal to 4% of the difference between the collected rents actually
collected and utilities; however, the service charge shall not exceed taxes
which would be paid absent this tax exemption.
   (n)   The City acknowledges that Rosewood Manor Limited Dividend Housing
Association, Limited Partnership is subject to receipt of a federal aided
mortgage and the authority providing a low income housing tax credit under
Section 22b, will duly organize a limited dividend housing association limited
partnership (“limited dividend”) to rehabilitate, own and operate a housing
development identified as Rosewood Manor on certain property located at G-5515
Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd, located in the City to serve persons of low
income, and that the limited partnership has offered to pay the City on account
of this housing development an annual service charge for public services in
lieu of taxes. The City acknowledges that Rosewood Manor shall be afforded tax
benefits of paying a service charge in lieu of taxes, the City further
acknowledges that Rosewood Manor fits within the class as described in §
18-4.3. The annual service charge for the class of persons of low income shall
be equal to four percent (4%) of the difference between the collected rent
actually collected and utilities; however, the service charge shall not exceed
taxes which would be paid absent this tax exemption.
   (o)   The City acknowledges that Rosewood Riverside Townhomes Limited
Dividend Housing Association, Limited Partnership, subject to receipt of a
mortgage loan from the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA),
will erect, own and operate a thirty-nine unit low income housing development
identified as Rosewood Riverside Townhomes on certain property commonly known
as 110 N. Grand Traverse in the City to serve persons of low income and that
the limited partnership has offered to pay the City on account of this housing
development an annual service charge for public services in lieu of taxes. The
City acknowledges that the Rosewood Riverside Townhomes low-income housing
shall be afforded tax benefits of paying a service charge in lieu of taxes. The
City further acknowledges that Rosewood Riverside Townhomes fits within the
class as described in §
18-4.3 below. The annual service charge for the class of persons of low income
shall be equal to six percent (6%) of the difference between the contract rents
actually collected and utilities; however, the service charge shall not exceed
taxes which would be paid absent this tax exemption.
(Ord. 2621, passed 1-23-1978; Ord. 3010, passed 10-13-1986; Ord. 3032, passed
3-23-1987; Ord. 3055, passed 4-25-1988; Ord. 3118, passed 11-13-1989; Ord.
3196, passed 2-24-1992; Ord. 3208, passed 6-22-1992; Ord. 3240, passed 7-26-
1993; Ord. 3320, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 3324, passed 2-12-1996; Ord. 3349,
passed 6-23-1997; Ord. 3363, passed 2-9-1998; Ord. 3367, passed 3-23-1998; Ord.
3368, passed 3-23-1998; Ord. 3377, passed 7-27-1998; Ord. 3390, passed 12-7-
1998; Ord. 3396, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3440, passed 8-23-1999; Ord. 3450,
passed 2-28-2000; Ord. 3454, passed 4-10-2000; Ord. 3481, passed 10-8-2001;
Ord. 3482, passed 10-8-2001; Ord. 3490, passed 3-11-2002; Ord. 3517, passed 9-
22-2003; Ord. 3522, passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 3794, passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 3807,
passed 11-28-2011)
Statutory reference:
   State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, see MCLA 125.1401 et seq.
§ 18-4.1.1 PAYMENT SCHEDULE.
   The payment formula for the Court Street Village West Housing Development,
which will ensure payment to the City over the life of the project an amount
equal to an annual service charge of four percent (4%) of the difference
between the contract rents actually collected as set forth in Exhibit A,
attached to Ord. 3215, passed September 14, 1992.
(Ord. 3215, passed 9-14-1992)
§ 18-4.2 SAME — DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
18-4.1 through
18-4.8 hereof, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The State Housing Development Act, being Public Act 346 of 1966, of the
State of Michigan, as amended.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   CONTRACT RENTS. As defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to the U.S. Housing Act of
1937, as amended by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974. In the
event a project is not assisted by the HUD Section 8 Program, this term shall
mean the total of all rents collected from or paid on behalf of the tenants of
the project.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for persons of low income and such elements of other housing,
commercial, recreational, industrial, communal, and educational facilities as
the Authority determines improve the quality of the development as it relates
to housing for persons of low income.
   HUD. The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   SPONSOR. Persons or entities which have applied to the authority or HUD for
a mortgage loan or mortgage loan insurance or other assistance so as to qualify
such a loan as an Authority-added mortgage or a federally-added mortgage as
defined in the Act.
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service, and/or electrical service
which are paid by the development.
   [RESERVED FOR DEFINITION OF CLASS]. Elderly, family, handicapped, etc. to
which §§
18-4.1 through
18-4.8 hereof shall apply.
(Ord. 2621, passed 1-23-1978; Ord. 3010, passed 10-13-1986; Ord. 3808, passed
11-28-2011)
Statutory reference:
   State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, see MCLA 125.1401 et seq.
§ 18-4.3 SAME — CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
   It is hereby determined that the class of housing development to which the
tax exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu
of such taxes shall be housing developments of multiple dwellings for elderly
persons of low income and persons of low income:
   (a)   Which are financed or assisted pursuant the Act or by HUD.
   (b)   Which are or were located in economically depressed urban renewal
project areas;
   (c)   Which are not economically feasible absent the City’s allowing a
service charge in lieu of taxes;
   (d)   Which the Authority or HUD will not finance absent the City providing
this tax benefit;
   (e)   Which will not provide new jobs; and
   (f)   Whose sponsor negotiates a service charge with the City when the
housing development is in the planning stage, prior to the start of
construction or renovation.
(Ord. 2621, passed 1-23-1978; Ord. 3010, passed 10-13-1986; Ord. 3055, passed
4-25-1988; Ord. 3118, passed 11-13-1989; Ord. 3809, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 18-4.4 SAME — NEGOTIATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   The housing developments described in §
18-4.1 above shall be exempt from all property taxes from and after
commencement of construction. The City, acknowledging that the sponsor and the
Authority or HUD have established the economic feasibility of the housing
developments in reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of §§
18-4.1 through
18-4.8 hereof and the qualification of the housing development for exemption
from all property taxes and payment of a service charge in lieu of taxes as
established herein, and in consideration of the sponsor’s offer, subject to
receipt of a mortgage loan from the authority or a federally aided mortgage to
construct, own and operate said housing developments, hereby agrees to accept
payment of an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all property
taxes. The annual service charge for each housing development shall be
negotiated between the City and the sponsor and shall be set at a rate which
will make the housing development economically feasible, and the rate shall be
embodied in an ordinance.
(Ord. 2621, passed 1-23-1978; Ord. 3010, passed 10-13-1986)
§ 18-4.5 SAME — CONTRACTUAL EFFECT.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 15(a)(5) of the act, to the
contrary, a contract between the City and the Sponsor with the Authority or
HUD, as third party beneficiary thereunder, to provide tax exemption and accept
payments in lieu thereof as previously described is in effect by enactment of
this ordinance.
(Ord. 2621, passed 1-23-1978; Ord. 3810, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 18-4.6 SAME — PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined hereunder shall be payable
in the same manner as general property taxes are payable to the City except
that the annual payment shall be paid on or before June 1 of each year.
(Ord. 2621, passed 1-23-1978)
§ 18-4.7 SAME — DURATION.
   This ordinance, Sections §§
18-4.1 through
18-4.7, shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as the
Authority-aided or federally-aided mortgage loan remains outstanding and the
unpaid or HUD mortgage insurance is still operative or the Authority or HUD
have any interest in the property; provided, that construction or renovation of
a housing development commences within one year from the effective date of this
ordinance. The tax incentive provided in §§
18-4.1 through
18-4.7 shall remain in effect and shall not terminate with respect to any
particular housing development so long as the Authority-aided or federally-
aided mortgage loan remains outstanding and unpaid for that particular housing
development or for so long as HUD or the Authority shall have any interest in
the property of a particular housing development. Provided, with respect to the
River Village Project. Provided further, that construction or renovation of the
housing project commences on or before February 28, 2012. Provided further,
that with respect to Court Street Village, construction of the housing project
commences on or before October 30, 1990; and that, with respect to Avon Park,
that construction of the housing project commences on or before October 30,
1994.
(Ord. 2621, passed 1-23-1978; Ord. 3010, passed 10-13-1986; Ord. 3118, passed
11-13-1989; Ord. 3240, passed 7-26-1993; Ord. 3257, passed 11-22-1993; Ord.
3811, passed 11-28-2011)
§ 18-4.8 SAME — INAPPLICABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS; REVOCATION OF TAX EXEMPTION.
   The tax exemption provided for in MCLA § 125.1415a(1) shall not apply to any
housing developments within the boundaries of the City of Flint unless a
determination is made, by ordinance, that a particular housing development fits
within the same class as described in §
18-4.3 to the extent, if any, that any housing development other than the
housing developments described in §
18-4.1 should be construed to be granted a tax exemption and a service charge
in lieu of taxes, that the tax exemption is hereby revoked on December 31,
1986, pursuant to MCLA § 125.1415a(5).
(Ord. 3010, passed 10-13-1986)
ARTICLE II. ASSESSMENTS
§ 18-5 BOARD OF REVIEW CREATED; COMPOSITION; QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   A Board of Review of the City of Flint is hereby created in accordance with
the provisions of Section
7-202 of the Charter. Said Board of Review shall consist of nine qualified
registered electors and freeholders of the City. No member of the Board shall
hold any other public office or public employment, except that of a Notary
Public.
(Ord. 2538, passed 12-22-1975; Ord. 2760, passed 2-25-1980)
§ 18-5.1 SAME — APPOINTMENT, REMOVAL, TERM OF MEMBERS; FILLING OF VACANCIES;
CLERK; RECORDS.
   The members of the Board of Review shall be appointed by the City Council,
and removal from office shall be for cause upon recommendation of the Mayor and
approval of the City Council. The first members shall be appointed during the
month of January, 1976, three (3) year terms expiring January 1, 1977, three
(3) for terms expiring January 1, 1978 and three (3) for terms expiring January
1, 1979. Thereafter three (3) members shall be appointed in the month of
December of each year, for at term of three (3) years, commencing on the
following January first. No person may be appointed to the Board of Review who
resides in the same ward of the City as a person already serving on the Board
of Review. Vacancies occurring prior to the expiration of the term shall be
filled for the remainder of the term in the same manner as an expired term. The
City Assessor and/or his designees shall be entitled to be present and to be
heard on all matters before the Board, but shall have no vote. The City Clerk
or his authorized representative shall be Clerk of the Board and shall keep a
permanent record of all proceedings of the Board on file in his office.
(Ord. 2538, passed 12-22-1975; Ord. 2760, passed 2-25-1980; Ord. 3098, passed
5-8-1989)
§ 18-5.2 SAME — AUTHORITY TO ADOPT RULES NECESSARY FOR CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   The Board of Review is hereby authorized to adopt such rules as it deems
necessary for the conduct of its business. All such rules shall be adopted in
accordance with Section
1-801 of the Charter.
(Ord. 2538, passed 12-22-1975)
§ 18-5.3 SAME — MEETING; SUBMISSION OF ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (a)   On the second Monday in March in each year at 9:00 a.m. the Board of
Review shall meet in the room in which the City Council holds its regular
meetings, at which time the City Assessor shall submit to it the assessment
roll of the City of Flint for the current year as prepared by him/her. The
Board shall remain in daily session through Thursday of that same week during
the hours from 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. The meeting hours of the Board on the
Tuesday immediately following the second Monday in March of each year shall be
from 3:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
   (b)   Additionally, special Board of Review meetings may be convened by the
City Assessor on the Tuesday following the third Monday in July, and/or on the
Tuesday following the second Monday in December, for purposes of correcting
mutual mistakes of fact or clerical errors on the assessment rolls. Any and all
business conducted by the Board of Review during either of these two optional
special meetings must be conducted in accordance with the State of Michigan
General Property Tax Act, Public Act 206 of 1893 (as amended).
(Ord. 2538, passed 12-22-1975; Ord. 2833, passed 5-10-1982; Ord. 2868, passed
2-14-1983; Ord. 3467, passed 2-26-2001; Ord. 3487, passed 2-11-2002)
§ 18-5.4 SAME — DUTIES.
   (a)   The Board shall examine and review the assessment roll for the current
year and may on its own motion, or on sufficient cause being shown by any
person on application, add to said assessment roll any names of persons or
property which should be added thereto, strike therefrom any names or property
which in its judgment should be stricken, correct all errors in the names or
descriptions of property, correct any assessment in any such manner as in its
judgment shall make the assessed valuation relatively just and equal, and shall
do whatever else may be necessary to make said roll comply with the general
property tax laws of the State of Michigan. To that end said Board may examine
under oath the person making such application, or any other person touching the
matter of the valuation of the property. Any resident or nonresident property
owner is authorized to file his or her protest before the Board of Review by
notarized letter without a personal appearance by the owner or his or her
agent. A statement notifying taxpayers of this option shall be included in
every assessment notice and on any notice or publication of the meeting of the
Board of Review.
   (b)   The roll shall be reviewed according to the facts existing on the tax
day established by State law. The Board shall not add to the roll any property
not subject to taxation on the tax day nor shall it remove from the roll any
property subject to taxation on said day regardless of any change in the
taxable status of the property since said day.
   (c)   The assessment roll prepared by the City Assessor shall stand approved
and adopted as the act of the Board of Review, except as changed by a vote of
the majority of the members of the Board.
   (d)   A majority of the Board of Review appointed shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business. If for any reason a quorum does not assemble
during the days mentioned, the assessment roll as prepared by the City Assessor
shall stand as the assessment roll of the City.
   (e)   Whenever the valuation of any real or personal property has been
increased by the Board of Review, the Clerk shall at once notify the person
whose assessment has been increased of such increase and that if he objects
thereto may appeal before the Board at a subsequent sitting named in the notice
and show cause, under oath, why such increase should not be made. Such notice
of increase shall be given at least twenty-four (24) hours before the final
meeting of the Board.
   (f)   After the Board shall have completed the review of the assessment roll
it shall attach its certificate thereto that it has been reviewed and approved
by the Board of Review and that it is the assessment roll for the City of Flint
in the year in which it has been approved. Such certificate shall be signed by
the Chairman and the City Clerk and may be in the following form:
   The Board of Review of the City of Flint certifies that the foregoing roll
is the Assessment Roll of the City of Flint for the year 20     as approved by
said Board.
Dated:          Signed:                                    
               Chairman
                                                   
               City Clerk
   (g)   Upon completion of the roll and its endorsement in the manner
aforesaid it shall be conclusively presumed by all Courts and tribunals to be
valid. The omission of the endorsement shall not affect the validity of the
roll.
(Ord. 2538, passed 12-22-1975; Ord. 2969, passed 9-9-1985)
§ 18-6 TIME FOR MAKING TAX ROLL.
   The City Assessor, within the time within which a Township Supervisor is
required to perform a like act, shall make and deliver to the City Treasurer
the tax roll with the State and County taxes extended thereon as required by
statute, together with an attached warrant in the usual form of a Supervisor’s
warrant to a Township Treasurer signed by the Mayor and the City Clerk; no
collection fee shall be charged on State and County taxes voluntarily paid on
or before February 14 in each year; after February 14 the City Treasurer shall
proceed to collect the unpaid taxes on said roll together with a four percent
(4%) collection fee and make return of all delinquent taxes remaining unpaid;
for that purpose the City Treasurer is hereby invested with all the powers of
and shall perform all the duties of the Township Treasurer in collecting taxes
remaining unpaid in a township after the last day of February, and in making
return of delinquent taxes remaining unpaid as particularly set forth in the
general tax law of the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 882, passed 10-3-1949; Ord. 2526, passed 10-27-1975)
§ 18-7 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT RELIEF BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   A Special Assessment Relief Board is hereby created. The term “Board”
whenever used herein, shall mean the Special Assessment Relief Board. The Board
shall consist of the following members who shall serve by virtue of their
offices:
   (a)   The City Administrator;
   (b)   The Director of Finance; and
   (c)   The Chief Legal Officer.
(Ord. 1054, passed 12-29-1952)
§ 18-8 SAME — INVESTIGATION OF REQUESTS FOR RELIEF; REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION.
   The Board shall investigate and review all requests made by any property
owner assessed for relief from the payment of special assessment or any part of
installment thereof and shall make a report of its findings together with its
recommendations, to the Finance Committee of the City Council.
(Ord. 1054, passed 12-29-1952)
§ 18-9 AWARD OF RELIEF FROM ASSESSMENTS.
   If the Finance Committee shall determine that the collection of any special
assessment or part or installment thereof, at the time and in the manner
provided by law, would, by reason of age, indigency or any other factor
affecting ability to pay, tend to cause the property owner to become a public
charge or would otherwise work undue hardship upon the property owner and shall
further determine that to grant relief from the collection of such special
assessment would be in the best interest of the City of Flint, said Finance
Committee may recommend to the City Council that relief be granted, consistent
with the provisions of §
18-10.
(Ord. 1054, passed 12-29-1952)
§ 18-10 PAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BY CITY; TAKING OF MORTGAGE AND NOTE TO
ASSURE REPAYMENT TO CITY.
   The City Council of the City of Flint may order the payment of any special
assessment or installment thereof from funds available for that purpose.
Provided; however, that no such payment shall be authorized unless the property
owner, together with his spouse, if any, shall execute a notice, secured by a
real estate mortgage to the City of Flint, to secure the eventual repayment of
such funds to the City of Flint in full. Such note and mortgage shall be a
first mortgage upon the real estate pledged, except in those instances where
the balance due upon the first mortgage is sufficiently low in the opinion of
the Special Assessment Relief Board, the Finance Committee and the City
Council, that the taking of a second mortgage, together with a note, will be
adequate protection to the City of Flint to secure the eventual repayment
aforesaid and may bear interest at a rate to be determined by the City Council
not to exceed 4% per annum, shall be payable in such number of years as the
City Council may determine, but in any event shall be due and payable in full
upon the death of the mortgagors or the sale of the property, shall provide
that failure to pay other taxes upon the mortgaged property may be grounds for
acceleration of the due date of said note and mortgage and shall require the
mortgagor to keep buildings insured in companies and in an amount acceptable to
the City of Flint.
(Ord. 1054, passed 12-29-1952; Ord. 1223, passed 9-13-1954)
§ 18-11 BOARD OF SPECIAL ASSESSORS CREATED; COMPOSITION; DUTIES GENERALLY;
COMPENSATION.
   A Board of Special Assessors, composed of Assessor, Treasurer and Chief
Administrator is hereby created. It shall be the duty of the Board of Special
Assessors to make special assessments authorized by the Charter of the City of
Flint whenever any such special assessments are directed to be made by the City
Council. No compensation in addition to their regular salaries shall be paid to
the members of the Board of Special Assessors for any services performed as
members of such Board.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.1 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO LEVY SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Council shall have the power to provide for the payment of all or
any part of the cost of any public improvement and all expenses incident to the
proceedings for the making of such public improvement and the special
assessment therefor, and also for the repair or reconstruction of any public
improvement by levying and collecting a special assessment upon the property
deemed specially benefitted by such public improvement, or by the repair or
reconstruction of any public improvement. Such special assessment may be
payable in yearly installments during a period not exceeding ten years.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.2 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS TO BE DECLARED BY RESOLUTION OF COUNCIL.
   When the City Council shall in its discretion determine to make any public
improvement or to repair or reconstruct any public improvement and defray the
whole or any part of the cost thereof by a special assessment on the property
deemed specially benefitted thereby, they shall so declare by resolution,
stating the nature of the improvement and what part or portion of the cost
thereof shall be paid by special assessment on the property deemed specifically
benefitted thereby, and what part, if any, shall be paid from the general fund
of the City or other sources, and shall designate the district or lands upon
which the special assessment shall be levied.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.3 ESTIMATE OF COST OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT; PLANS FOR WORK AND PLAT;
NOTICE OF PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT.
   Before ordering any public improvement to be made, any part of the cost of
which is to be defrayed by a special assessment to be levied upon the property
deemed specially benefitted thereby, the City Council shall cause estimates of
the cost thereof to be made and shall also, if deemed advisable, cause to be
made plans of the work to be done and a plat of the locality to be improved,
give notice thereof and of the proposed improvement, the district to be
assessed and the time and place when the City Council will meet and consider
any objections thereto, by publication of such notice, once in a newspaper
published and circulated in the City of Flint at least ten (10) days prior to
such hearing.
   After receipt of such cost estimates, plans and plat, the City Council shall
set a time and place for a hearing, at which time and place it will consider
any objections to said project, and notice of said hearing shall be given to
each owner of or party of interest in property proposed to be specially
benefitted and assessed, whose names appear upon the last local tax assessment
records, by mailing by first class mail, addressed to such owner or party at
the address shown on the tax records, at least ten (10) days before the date of
such hearing and by publication of such notice once in a newspaper published
and circulated in the City of Flint at least ten days prior to such hearing.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976; Ord. 2761, passed 2-25-1980)
§ 18-11.4 RESOLUTION OF COUNCIL DIRECTING BOARD OF SPECIAL ASSESSORS TO MAKE
ASSESSMENTS; CONTENTS.
   When any special assessment is to be made upon the lands in any special
assessment district according to benefits the City Council shall, by
resolution, direct such special assessment to be made by the Board of Special
Assessors and shall state therein the amount to be assessed and whether it
shall be assessed according to frontage or otherwise, and describe or designate
the assessment district comprising the lands to be assessed.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.5 RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING EXPENSE TO BE INCURRED UPON LOT OR PARCELS OF
LAND NOT IN SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT.
   Whenever the City Council deems it necessary for the benefit or protection
of the public health, welfare or safety to incur any expense upon or in respect
to any lot or lots or parcel or parcels of land other than lots or parcels of
land in a special assessment district which are assessed to defray the cost of
all or any part of a public improvement, it may by resolution authorize such
expense to be incurred, setting forth in the resolution the description of the
lot or lots or parcel or parcels of land upon which the expense is authorized
to be incurred, the things necessary to be done thereon or changes made
therein, the owner or owners or person or persons chargeable with such expense
(if known), the purpose or purposes for which it is deemed necessary to incur
the expense, and directing the Chief Administrator to proceed and cause to be
done the things on or in respect to or make the changes therein set forth. Upon
the adoption of the resolution by the City Council, the Chief Administrator
shall proceed and cause to be done on or in respect to or make the changes in
the lot or lots or parcel or parcels of land specified in the resolution, and
upon the completion thereof he shall report the same to the City Council,
together with an itemized statement verified by him showing the cost of all
labor and material used in doing the things on or in respect to or making the
changes in such lot or lots or parcel or parcels of land. Upon receipt of such
report, the City Council shall and is hereby authorized to direct the Board of
Special Assessors to make a special assessment roll and levy as a special
assessment on the lot or lots or parcel or parcels of land upon or in respect
to which the expense was incurred the amount of such expense.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.6 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Upon receiving such direction, the Board of Special Assessors shall make an
assessment roll, entering and describing therein all the lots and parcels of
land to be assessed, with the names (if known) of the respective persons
chargeable with the assessment thereon, and shall levy thereon and against such
property, the amount to be assessed in the manner directed by the City Council
and the provisions of the Charter applicable to the assessment. In all cases
where the name of the person chargeable with the payment of the assessment made
on any description of land is unknown to the Board of Special Assessors, they
shall, in lieu of the name of the person so chargeable, insert the word
“unknown.” If by mistake or otherwise any person shall be improperly designated
as the person chargeable with the payment of the special assessment levied on
any lot or parcel of land, or if the same shall be assessed without the name of
the person chargeable with the payment of same, such assessment shall not, by
reason thereof, be invalid, but shall in all respects be as valid upon and
against such lot or parcel of land as though assessed in the name of the proper
person chargeable with the payment of the assessment thereon, and when the
assessment shall have been confirmed it shall be a lien on such lot or parcel
of land and collected as provided in this Code.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.7 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; REPORT OF COMPLETION
OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   If the assessment is required to be according to frontage, the Board of
Special Assessors shall assess to each lot or parcel of land such portion of
the whole amount to be levied, as the length, or frontage, of such lot or
parcel of land abutting upon the improvement is of the whole length, or
frontage, of all lots to be assessed, unless on account of the shape or size of
any lot or parcel of land an assessment for a different number of feet would be
more equitable. If the assessment is directed to be made otherwise than
according to frontage, the Board of Special Assessors shall assess upon each
lot or parcel of land, such portion of the whole sum to be levied as shall be
proportionate to the estimated benefit resulting to such lot or parcel of land
on account of the improvement. When the Board of Special Assessors shall have
completed the assessment roll, they shall report the same to the City Council,
which report shall be signed by them and may be in a form of a certificate
endorsed on the assessment roll as follows:
State of Michigan)
            ss)
City of Flint)
We hereby certify and report that the foregoing is the Special Assessment Roll
made by us pursuant to a resolution of the City Council of the City of Flint
adopted on the          day of                                   A.D.,
20      , for the purpose of defraying that part of the cost of (insert here
the improvement made) which the City Council determined should be paid by
special assessment levied on the property deemed specially benefitted thereby;
that in making such assessment we have, as near as may be, according to our
best judgment, conformed in all things to the direction contained in such
Resolution and the Charter of the City of Flint relating to the assessment.
Dated at the City of Flint, Michigan, this           day of
                             A.D., 20     .
                                                          
Board of Special Assessors
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.8 FILING OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; NOTICE OF FILING; OBJECTIONS TO
ASSESSMENT.
   All special assessment rolls reported by the Board of Special Assessors to
the City Council shall be filed in the office of the City Assessor and numbered
consecutively for each class of improvement. Before adopting any such
assessment roll, the City Council shall cause ten days’ notice to be published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Flint, of the filing of
the same with the City Assessor and appointing a time when the Board of Special
Assessors will meet to review the special assessment, which notice may be in
the following form:
Notice is hereby given that the Special Assessment Roll heretofore made by the
Board of Special Assessors for the purpose of defraying the cost of (or that
part of the cost which the City Council determined should be paid by a special
assessment) for the (insert the objective of the assessment and the locality of
the property assessed, in general terms) now on file in my office for public
inspection, and that the Board of Special Assessors of the City of Flint will
meet at my office in the City of Flint on                      the
                 day of                                 , 20     , at
                    o’clock in the   .m., Eastern Standard Time, to review said
assessment at which time and place opportunity will be given to all persons
interested, to be heard.
Dated:                       
                                                                    
City Assessor
   Any person objecting to his assessment may file his objection thereto, in
writing, with the City Assessor, or he may appear in person and state his
objection to the Board of Special Assessors during the time said assessment
roll is being reviewed.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.9 REVIEW OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; HEARING OF OBJECTIONS; SPECIAL
ASSESSMENT RECORD.
   At the time and place appointed for reviewing the assessment roll, the Board
of Special Assessors shall meet and there, or at some adjourned meeting, review
the assessment roll and shall hear any objections to any assessment which may
be made by any person deeming himself aggrieved thereby. The Board of Special
Assessors may correct such roll as to any assessment, description of land, or
the name of the person chargeable with the payment of any assessment appearing
therein and may confirm the assessment roll as reported or as corrected, or
annul it and make a new assessment roll. In case a new assessment roll is made,
the same proceedings shall be had therein as in respect to the original
assessment roll. When a special assessment shall have been confirmed, the City
Assessor shall make an endorsement upon the roll showing the date of the
confirmation. For the purpose of enabling the City Treasurer to furnish a
history or statement of unpaid special assessments, the City Clerk shall,
immediately after a special assessment roll shall have been confirmed and filed
by him, make a special record of such filing and shall thereupon cause to be
entered in a book or books to be known as “Special Assessment Record,” to be
kept in the office of the City Treasurer, in a form to be prescribed by the
Director of Finance, a detailed statement showing the number of the special
assessment, date of confirmation, description of each parcel of land assessed,
the amount of assessment and such other information as the City Council may
require. Should any such assessment be set aside by the City Council or other
lawful authority, the City Treasurer shall make an entry in such record showing
the date thereof, and the City Treasurer shall also make an entry in such book
showing the dates of payment of all special assessments.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.10 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TO BE FINAL AND CONCLUSIVE WHEN CONFIRMED BY
BOARD OF SPECIAL ASSESSORS.
   When any special assessment shall have been confirmed by the Board of
Special Assessors, such assessment as shown on the assessment rolls shall be
final and conclusive.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.11 ASSESSMENT TO CONSTITUTE A LIEN.
   All special assessments shall from the date of confirmation thereof
constitute a lien upon the lot or lots or parcel or parcels of land assessed
and, until paid, shall be a charge against the owner or owners of the lot or
lots or parcel or parcels of land assessed, or against the person or respective
persons chargeable with the payment of such assessment.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.12 PAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The City Council shall fix the time for the payment of any special
assessment and if divided into installments the time of payment of each
installment thereof. All installments beginning with installment No. 2 shall be
due and payable at intervals of twelve (12) months. Each special assessment, or
if divided into installments, each installment thereof, prior to its due date
shall bear interest at a rate not to exceed the prime commercial lending rate
per annum to be computed from and after the date of confirmation of the
assessment by the Board of Special Assessors. Provided, that if no bonds are
issued in anticipation of the collection of any special assessment the City
Council may waive the payment of interest, but not penalties, on such special
assessment or any installment thereof. Any one or more installments of a
special assessment may be paid in advance at any time, with interest computed
to the next installment due date. If the whole or any part of a special
assessment or the interest thereon, is not paid at the time when it becomes
due, then the same shall be deemed to be delinquent, a collection fee of four
percent (4%) plus three-quarters (3/4) of one percent penalty for each month or
fraction thereof until paid.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976; Ord. 2716, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 18-11.13 RECORDING OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; OFFICIAL COLLECTION RECORD.
   Immediately after the confirmation of any special assessment roll by the
Board of Special Assessors, the City Treasurer shall record on a ledger sheet
by property description the assessment as shown on the special assessment roll
indicating the name of the person or persons against whom assessed, listing the
installments and due dates of each, and record all subsequent payments, accrued
interest and penalties thereon, and such record on said ledger sheet shall be
the official collection record of such assessment roll.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.14 REASSESSMENT.
   In all cases of special assessments of any kind against any property wherein
any such assessments have failed to be valid in whole or in part, the City
Council shall be and it is hereby authorized to cause to be reassessed, such
special taxes or assessments and to enforce their collection. Whenever, for any
cause, mistake or inadvertence, the amount assessed shall not be sufficient to
pay that portion of the cost incurred upon or in respect to any lot or lots or
parcel or parcels of land, or the cost of the improvement which the City
Council has determined should be assessed against the property or the owners of
the property, or the person or persons chargeable with the payment of the
assessment in the local assessment district, it shall be lawful and the City
Council is hereby authorized to cause to be made a reassessment upon all of the
property upon or in respect to which expense has been incurred, or all of the
property in the local assessment district, to pay for the public improvement
made in such district, and to continue requiring such reassessment until a
valid and sufficient assessment shall have been made.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.15 EQUITABLE LIEN FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENT NOT TO BE IMPAIRED.
   No judgment or decree nor any act of the City Council vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the City upon the lands assessed
for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged against the same
or as by regular mode of proceedings might have been lawfully assessed thereon.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.16 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS GENERALLY; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   When any special assessment shall have been confirmed, the City Council
shall direct the assessment so made to be collected. The Mayor and the City
Clerk shall thereupon attach their warrant to the assessment roll commanding
the City Treasurer to collect from each of the persons assessed in said
assessment roll, the amount of money assessed to and set opposite his name and
the description of the land assessed to him, and if any person named in said
assessment roll shall neglect or refuse to pay his assessment or any part
thereof upon demand after the same shall have become payable, then to levy and
collect the same by distress and sale of the goods and chattels of such person.
Such warrant shall require the City Treasurer, on May 1 following the date when
any special assessment or any part thereof has become delinquent, to submit to
the City Council a sworn statement of all assessments or parts thereof in said
assessment roll which have become delinquent and are unpaid, a list of the
names of the persons delinquent (if known), a description of the lot or lots or
parcel or parcels of land upon which the assessments or any part thereof remain
unpaid and the amount unpaid on each, inclusive of accrued interest and
penalties. The assessment roll with the warrant attached shall then be
delivered by the City Clerk to the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.17 REFUSAL TO PAY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; AUTHORITY OF CITY TO SEIZE AND
LEVY UPON PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Upon receiving said assessment roll and warrant, the Treasurer shall proceed
to collect the amount assessed therein. If any person shall neglect or refuse
to pay his assessment upon demand, the Treasurer shall seize and levy upon any
personal property found within the City or elsewhere in the State of Michigan
belonging to such person and sell the same at public auction, first giving six
days notice of the time and place of such sale by posting such notice in three
public places in the City or township where such property may be found. The
proceeds of such sale, or so much thereof as may be necessary for that purpose,
shall be applied to the payment of such assessment, the costs and expenses of
seizure and sale, and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the person entitled
thereto.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.18 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BY SUIT.
   At any time after a special assessment has become payable, the same may be
collected by suit in the name of the City against the person assessed, in an
action in any Court having jurisdiction of the amount. In every such action, a
declaration upon the common courts for money paid shall be sufficient. The
special assessment roll and a copy of the order or resolution confirming the
same shall be prima facie evidence of the regularity of all the proceedings in
making the assessment of the whole amount payable and of the right of the City
to recover judgment therefor.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.19 COURT MAY RENDER JUDGMENT FOR AMOUNT PROPERLY CHARGEABLE.
   If any such action it shall appear that by reason of any irregularities or
informalities the assessment has not been properly made against the defendant
or upon the land or lands sought to be charged, the court may, nevertheless, on
satisfactory proof that expenses have been incurred by the City which are a
proper charge against the defendant or the land in question render judgment for
the amount properly chargeable against such defendant or upon such land or
lands.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.20 MONIES RAISED BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS TO BE HELD AS SPECIAL FUNDS.
   Monies raised by special assessment to pay for the cost of any public
improvement or any part thereof, or to pay the cost incurred by the City upon
or in respect to any lot or lots or parcels of land not included in a special
assessment district, shall be held as special funds to pay such costs or to
repay any money borrowed or paid out therefor, and shall be used solely for the
purpose for which they are raised. If the estimated cost of any public
improvement exceeds the actual cost of such improvement, such excess shall be
distributed as follows: All persons who have paid the total amount of their
assessment shall be paid their proper share of the excess, and the balance of
the excess after such payments have been made shall be applied pro rata to
reduce the amount of the annual installments becoming due thereafter.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 18-11.21 CITY TO ADVERTISE FOR PROPOSALS FOR MAKING IMPROVEMENTS.
   No improvement, any part of the cost of which is to be assessed to a special
assessment district, shall be made until the Council shall have first
advertised for proposals for making such improvement and received and opened
the same. The City Council may reject any or all such proposals and may at its
discretion make such improvement by the proper officials and agents of the
City; provided, that any contract for the improvement shall be awarded to the
lowest responsible bidder.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976; Ord. 2716, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 18-11.22 APPORTIONMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT WHERE LOT OR PARCEL IS DIVIDED
AFTER ASSESSMENT CONFIRMED.
   Should any lot or parcel of land be divided after a special assessment
thereon has been confirmed, and before the collection of all the installments
of such assessment, the City Council may require the Board of Special Assessors
to apportion the uncollected amount upon such lot or parcel of land so divided.
The report of such apportionment, when confirmed by the City Council, shall be
conclusive upon all the parties, and all assessments thereafter made upon the
lot or parcel of land shall be according to the apportionment.
(Ord. 2542, passed 1-26-1976)
ARTICLE III. FUNDS
DIVISION 1. ATWOOD STADIUM TRUST FUND
§ 18-12 CREATED.
   An Atwood Stadium Trust Fund is hereby created. The money to be deposited in
this Atwood Stadium Trust Fund shall be the revenues derived from special
admission charges and other revenues derived from activities at Atwood Stadium,
which funds are designated for deposit in said fund by the City Council. These
funds shall be expended only for capital improvements at or in Atwood Stadium.
The money to be placed in this fund shall be appropriated by City Council
resolution.
(Ord. 684, passed 7-21-1947; Ord. 2574, passed 1-10-1977)
DIVISION 2. PARKS AND RECREATION ENDOWMENT FUND
§ 18-13 CREATED.
   (a)   There is hereby created the Parks and Recreation Endowment Fund which
shall be used solely for the purpose of improving and maintaining the public
parks within the City of Flint. Interest earnings only may be expended for the
purposes designated herein.
   (b)   The monies to be deposited in the endowment fund shall be derived from
the proceeds of the sale of the areas commonly known as Oak Park and the City
owned lands bordering on the Kearsley Lake Golf Course, as approved by the
electorate of the City of Flint on November 8, 1984, and such other funds as
may be donated to the City for such purposes or appropriated by the City
Council from time to time to this fund.
   (c)   The Flint Public Trust shall be designated as the custodial trustee of
the funds and shall administer the funds in accordance with such trust
agreement as shall be entered into between the City of Flint and the custodial
trustee.
(Ord. 2956, passed 6-10-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Parks, see
Ch. 33
§ 18-14 ADVISORY BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; COMPENSATION.
   There is hereby created the Endowment Fund Advisory Board which shall
consist of eleven (11) representative community members, at least one (1) from
each of the nine (9) wards of the City, but no more than two (2) from any one
(1) ward and who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the concurrence of the
City Council.
   Members of the Board shall have attained the age of eighteen (18) years and
shall be residents of the City of Flint. Members shall serve for a term of
three (3) years; except that, of the members first appointed four (4) members
shall be appointed to four-year terms, four (4) members shall be appointed to
three (3) year terms, and three (3) members shall be appointed to two (2) year
terms. In the event of a vacancy on the Board, interim appointments shall be
made by the Mayor within thirty (30) days of the vacancy to complete the
unexpired term of such position. Members of the Board shall serve without
compensation or remuneration of any sort for their service on the Board.
(Ord. 2956, passed 6-10-1985; Ord. 3127, passed 2-26-1990)
§ 18-15 DUTIES OF ADVISORY BOARD WITH REGARD TO USE AND EXPENDITURE OF
ENDOWMENT FUNDS.
   The Endowment Funds Advisory Board shall advise the Director of the
Department of Parks and Recreation in establishing priorities for the use and
expenditure of available endowment funds for the purpose of improving and
maintaining the City of Flint Parks. All expenditures shall be subject to final
approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 2956, passed 6-10-1985)
§§ 18-16, 18-17 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. PURCHASES
§ 18-18 SHORT TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the “Purchasing Ordinance
of the City of Flint.”
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-19 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   AGENCY. Any department, office, multiple member body or other organization
of City government and includes any elective officer, appointee or person
acting or purporting to act in the exercise of official duties, but shall not
include the Board of Hospital Managers.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE. The Mayor of the City of Flint.
   CITY. The City of Flint, Michigan.
   CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Flint.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. All telephone, gas, water, electric light and power
service; towel and cleaning service; insurance; leases for all grounds,
buildings, office or other space required by the agencies, with the exception
of property under the control of the Housing Commission, Department of
Community Development or any independent multiple member board established in
accordance with the provisions of the Charter; and the rental, repair or
maintenance of equipment, machinery and other City owned personal property. The
term shall not include professional and other contractual services which have
been proven to be unique and not subject to competition.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Purchases and Supplies.
   SUPPLIES. All supplies, materials and equipment.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-20 DIRECTOR OF PURCHASES AND SUPPLIES.
   There is hereby created the position of Director of Purchases and Supplies
who shall be a member of the Classified Service and shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of the City Council. The Director shall perform all
duties as provided herein under the direction of the Mayor and shall perform
such other duties as may be prescribed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21 DIRECTOR TO HAVE SUPERVISION OF PURCHASE AND DISTRIBUTION OF SUPPLIES,
MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   The Director of Purchases and Supplies shall have general supervision of the
purchase and distribution of all supplies, materials and equipment and shall
perform all duties required by law and shall have the powers and duties
prescribed by this article.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21.1 ADDITIONAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTOR.
   The Director shall have the power and it shall be his duty:
   (a)   Purchase or contract. To purchase or contract for all supplies and
contractual services needed by any agency in accordance with purchasing
procedures as prescribed by this article and such rules and regulations as the
Director shall adopt for the internal management and operation of the office of
Director of Purchases and Supplies and such other rules and regulations as
shall be prescribed by the Mayor as the purchasing functions related to
executive staff offices and departments.
      (1)   Exceptions prohibited. The authority of the Director to negotiate
all purchases for all agencies shall not be abridged by excepting by rule any
particular agency.
      (2)   Unauthorized purchases. Except as herein provided, it shall be
unlawful for any agency to order the purchase of any supplies or make any
contract within the purview of this article other than through the Director and
any purchase ordered or contract made contrary to the provisions hereof shall
not be approved and the City shall not be bound thereby.
   (b)   Other powers and duties. In addition to the purchasing authority
conferred in subsection (a) above and in addition to any other powers and
duties conferred by this article, the Director shall:
      (1)   Minimum expenditure. Act to procure for the City the highest
quality in supplies and contractual services at least expense to the City.
      (2)   Encourage competition. Discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to
obtain as full and open competition as possible on all purchases and sales;
      (3)   Purchasing analysis. Keep informed of current developments in the
field of purchasing, prices, market conditions and new products, and secure for
the City the benefits of research done in the field of purchasing by other
governmental jurisdictions, national technical societies, trade associations
having national recognition, and by private businesses and organizations.
      (4)   Forms. Prescribe and maintain such forms as he shall find necessary
to the operation of this article.
      (5)   Standard nomenclature. Prepare and adopt a standard purchasing
nomenclature for agencies and suppliers.
      (6)   Vendor’s catalog file. Prepare, adopt and maintain a vendor’s
catalog file.
      (7)   Bulk purchases. Exploit the possibilities of buying “in bulk” so as
to take full advantage of discounts.
      (8)   Tax exemptions. So as to procure for the City all tax exemptions to
which it is entitled.
      (9)   Cooperation with Department of Finance. Cooperate with the
Department of Finance so as to secure for the City the maximum efficiency in
budgeting and accounting to the extent required by the Director of Finance.
      (10)   Disqualification of bidders. Have the authority, with the approval
of the Mayor to declare vendors who default on the quotations or contracts
irresponsible bidders and to disqualify them from receiving any business from
the City for a stated period of time. Any vendor who feels himself aggrieved by
the decision may, within ten (10) days of notification of such determination,
make objections thereto, in writing, to the City Clerk. Within fifteen (15)
days of the receipt of said notification, the City Council shall, after public
hearing, make a final determination as to the disqualification of the vendor,
which determination shall be final.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 3178, passed 7-8-1991)
§ 18-21.2 REQUISITION AND ESTIMATES.
   (a)   Requisitions or estimates. All agencies, either by or with the
authorization of the head of the department under which the agency operates,
shall file with the Director detailed requisitions or estimates of their
requirements in supplies and contractual services in such manner, at such
times, and for such future periods as may be required for budgeting and
accounting purposes.
   (b)   Unforeseen requirements. An agency shall not be prevented from filing,
in the same manner, with the Director at any time a requisition or estimate for
any supplies and contractual services, the need for which was not foreseen when
the detailed estimates were filed.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21.3 ENCUMBRANCE OF FUNDS.
   Except in cases of emergency, the Director shall not issue any order for
delivery on a contract or open market purchase until the Chief Finance Officer
shall have certified, after preaudit, that there is to the credit of the agency
concerned a sufficient unencumbered appropriation balance, in excess of all
unpaid obligations, to defray the amount of such order.
   (a)   Vendor information shall be furnished on a monthly basis to City
Council.
      The Director shall furnish to the Council by the fifteenth day of each
month a list of all vendors, with or without a contract, to whom money was owed
as of the last day of the preceding month. In addition to the name of each
vendor the list shall contain each vendor’s address, and, as of the last day of
the preceding month, the total amount of money owed to each vendor, and how
much of the amount owed each vendor has been due for more than 30 days and more
than 60 days.
      A violation of this ordinance is considered a misdemeanor, punishable by
a $500.00 fine, and/or 90 days in jail.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 3628, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 18-21.4 COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIRED.
   All purchases of supplies, contractual services, or sales of personal
property which is unsuitable for continued use, except as specifically provided
herein, shall be based wherever possible on competitive bids.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21.5 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein,
when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $3,000.00 shall be purchased by
written contract or purchase order from the lowest responsible bidder, after
due notice inviting proposals; and no purchase in excess of $3,000.00 shall be
made by the Director and/or Manager, except upon the approval of the City
Council. In the event that purchases made without City Council approval from
any one supplier exceed $3,000.00 in any fiscal year, City Council shall be
informed of such in writing by the Director of Purchases and/or Purchasing
Manager. All sales of personal property with an estimated value in excess of
$3,000.00 shall be sold by written contract or bill of sale to the highest
responsible bidder, after due notice inviting proposals.
   (a)   Notice inviting bids.
      (1)   Electronic media and/or newspaper. 
         a.   Notices inviting bids/proposals shall be published at least five
(5) days preceding the last day set for the receipt of proposals on the City of
Flint website, any electronic media service, or at least one newspaper of
general circulation in the City, if funding is available.
         b.   Scope of notice. The electronic media and/or newspaper notice
required herein shall include a general description of the articles to be
purchased or sold, shall state where bid blanks and specifications may be
secured, and the time and place for opening bids.
      (2)   Bidder’s list. The Director and/or Manager shall also solicit
sealed bids from all responsible prospective suppliers who have requested their
names be added to a “bidders list,” which the Director and/or Manager shall
maintain by directing prospective suppliers to the available electronic media
source or by sending them a copy of such newspaper notice or such other notice
as will acquaint them with the proposed purchase or sale. In any case,
invitations sent to the vendors on the bidders’ list shall be limited to
commodities that are similar in character and ordinarily handled by the trade
group to which the invitations are sent.
   (b)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the Director and/or Manager,
bid deposits shall be prescribed in the public notice inviting bids.
Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to return of bid deposits upon award of
the contract. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required by the
Director and/or Manager upon failure on his part to enter a contract within ten
(10) days after the award.
   (c)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. All bids and proposals shall be submitted via either the
electronic media source or in a sealed envelope to the Director and/or Manager
and shall be identified as such electronic means or on the face of the
envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notices and shall be witnessed by the City Clerk’s
designee.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available
for public inspection.
   (d)   Rejection of bids.
      (1)   The Director and/or Manager shall have the authority to reject any
bids, or any part thereof, when the public interest shall be served thereby;
provided, however, that in such event the public interest shall be clearly
stated in the notice of rejection.
      (2)   Bidders in default to City. The Director and/or Manager shall not
knowingly accept a bid from a contractor who is in default on the payment of
taxes, licenses or other monies due the City. Contracts with bidders who are
found to have been in default at the time of award of the contract shall be
voidable.
   (e)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority of the Director and/or Manager. The Director and/or
Manager shall have the authority to award contracts within the purview of this
article, subject to the approval of the City Council.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining the “lowest responsible bidder,” in addition
to price, the Director and/or Manager shall consider the following factors,
among others:
         a.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the services required;
         b.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         c.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder in business;
         d.   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         e.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         f.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the services;
         g.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies, or
contractual services, to the particular use required;
         h.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
         i.   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid;
         j.   Compliance with the City’s affirmative action program;
         k.   Other factors involved. A contract may be awarded to a bidder
based on factors other than the lowest bid, including but not limited to the
bidder’s competence, reliability and/or skills; provided that the Director and/
or Manager submits a report detailing such factors to City Council subject to
its approval.
   (f)   Award to other than the low bidder. From the bidders so determined to
be responsible, the Director and/or Manager shall award the contract to the
lowest such bidder; provided, that in determining the lowest bid, the Director
and/or Manager shall consider the bona fide business location of the bidder. If
the lowest responsible bidder is not located within the City limits of Flint,
and the lowest bid of the responsible bidders located within the City limits of
Flint does not exceed that of the lowest nonlocal bidder by more than seven
percent (7%), then the Director and/or Manager may determine said lowest local
bidder to be the lowest responsible bidder, and make the award to such local
bidder accordingly, subject to the approval of the City Council. Additionally,
if the lowest responsible bidder is not located within the limits of the City
of Flint, and the lowest bid of the responsible bidder located within the
County of Genesee does not exceed the bid of the lowest nonlocal bidder by more
than three and one- half percent (3.5%), then the Director and/or Manager may
determine said lowest Genesee County bidder to be the lowest responsible
bidder, and make the award to such Genesee County bidder accordingly, subject
to the approval of the City Council.
   (g)   Irresponsible bidder; statement required. When bidders are determined
not to be responsible bidders and their bids would have been lower than the bid
actually awarded, a full and complete statement of the reason for such
determination shall be prepared by the Director and/or Manager and filed with
the other papers relating to the transactions.
   (h)   Performance bonds. The Director and/or Manager shall, in his
discretion, have the authority to require either a performance bond, cash
deposit or surety, before entering a contract, in such amount as he shall find
reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the City.
   (i)   Unique services. Professional or personnel contractual services which
have been proven to be unique and not subject to the requirements of the
competitive bidding process in excess of $2,000.00 cumulative for a fiscal year
shall require City Council approval unless otherwise provided by the Charter or
other law.
   (j)   Prohibition against subdivision. No contract or purchase order shall
be subdivided to void the requirements of this section.
   (k)   Termination of contract. No contract or purchase which was made or
awarded with the approval of the City Council may be terminated by the Director
and/or Manager or any other member of the Executive Branch without first
obtaining the approval of City Council for such termination.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 2883, passed 8-8-1983; Ord. 2964, passed 7-
22-1985; Ord. 3178, passed 7-8-1991; Ord. 3331, passed 5-13-1996; Ord. 3625,
passed 10-11-2004; Ord. 3715, passed 6-9-2008; Ord. 3751, passed 4-27-2009;
Ord. 3755, passed 6-22-2009)
§ 18-21.6 OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All purchases of supplies, contractual services, or sales of personal
property which is unsuitable for continued use, which has an estimated value of
less than three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00), may be made in the
open market, without proper advertisement and without observing the procedure
prescribed in §
18-21.5 for the award of formal contracts.
   (a)   Minimum number of bids. All open market purchases shall, whenever
feasible, be based on at least three (3) competitive bids, and shall be awarded
to the lowest responsible bidder in accordance with the standards set forth in
§
18-21.5(e)(2).
   (b)   Notice inviting bids. The Director shall solicit bids by:
      (1)   Direct mail request to prospective vendors; or
      (2)   By telephone; or
      (3)   By public notice posted on the bulletin boards of the City Hall.
   (c)   Recording. The Director shall keep a record of all open market orders
and the bids submitted in competition thereon, and such records shall also be
open to public inspection.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 3178, passed 7-8-1991)
§ 18-21.7 PETTY EXPENDITURES REVOLVING FUND.
   Petty cash funds may be established within any agency with the approval of
the Director of Finance. From this fund shall be paid all purchases not in
excess of $100.00 each, made by the heads of agencies for incidentals, with the
approval of the Director. The Director shall promulgate rules and regulations
for use of the petty expenditures revolving fund.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 3178, passed 7-8-1991; Ord. 3716, passed 6-
9-2008)
§ 18-21.8 CENTRAL WAREHOUSING; STOREROOM’S REVOLVING FUND.
   (a)   Administration. The Director shall control and supervise storerooms
and warehouses and shall administer the storeroom’s revolving fund.
   (b)   Storeroom’s revolving fund. There is hereby created a storeroom’s
revolving fund.
      (1)   Accounting procedure. Requisitions from supplies, in a storeroom or
warehouse shall be credited by the Director to the storeroom’s revolving fund
by a charge against the appropriation of the using agency.
      (2)   Inventory. The Director shall maintain a perpetual inventory record
of all materials, supplies or equipment stored in storerooms and warehouses.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21.9 PRICE AGREEMENT CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   The head of the agency shall have the authority to submit requisitions to
the Director for supplies available under the terms of a price agreement.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21.10 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   (a)   Emergency defined. For the purpose of this section only, an EMERGENCY
constitutes a situation that threatens the public health, safety or welfare,
and:
      (1)   Is unforeseeable;
      (2)   Calls for immediate action; and
      (3)   Cannot be responded to using established procurement methods.
   (b)   By Director and/or Manager. In case of an emergency that requires the
immediate purchase of supplies or contractual services, the Director and/or
Manager shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure and at the lowest
obtainable price, any supplies or contractual service:
      (1)   Without City Council approval for amounts not exceeding $10,000.00
per vendor during a six (6) month period;
      (2)   With City Council approval for amounts exceeding $10,000.00 per
vendor during a six (6) month period.
      (3)   Recorded explanation. The Director and/or Manager shall immediately
file a report explaining the circumstances of an emergency purchase with the
City Clerk to be entered into the minutes of the City Council and remain open
to public inspection.
   (c)   By head of department. In case of an emergency which may result in the
loss of:
      (1)   Life. The head of any agency may purchase directly any supplies or
services necessary under the circumstances then in existence; or
      (2)   Property. The head of any agency may purchase directly only those
supplies or services not to exceed $10,000.00 during a six (6) month period
without the prior approval of City Council.
   (d)   Violation. Any person in violation of making an unauthorized
expenditure as outlined in this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a $500.00 fine and/or ninety (90) days in jail upon conviction of
the Court.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 3714, passed 6-9-2008; Ord. 3744, passed 12-
17-2008)
§ 18-21.11 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   The Director may inspect, or supervise the inspection of all deliveries of
supplies or contractual services to determine their conformance with the
specifications set forth in the order or contract.
   (a)   Inspection by agency. The Director shall have the authority to
authorize agencies having the staff and facilities for adequate inspection to
inspect all deliveries made to such agencies under rules and regulations which
the Director shall prescribe.
   (b)   Tests. The Director shall have the authority to require chemical and
physical tests of samples of deliveries which are necessary to determine their
quality and conformance with the specifications. In the performance of such
tests, the Director shall have the authority to make use of laboratory
facilities of any agency of the City government or of any outside laboratory.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21.12 SURPLUS SUPPLIES.
   All using agencies shall submit to the Director, at such times and in such
form as he shall prescribe, an inventory of all supplies which are no longer
used or which have become obsolete.
   (a)   Transfer. The Director shall have the authority to transfer surplus
supplies to other agencies.
   (b)   Sale. The Director shall have the authority to sell all supplies which
have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for, or trade in
the same on, new supplies.
      (1)   Competitive bidding. Sales under this section shall be made to the
highest responsible bidder and in conformance with §§
18-21.5 or
18-21.6 hereof whichever is applicable.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21.13 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The Director shall have the authority to join with other units of government
in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the City would be
served thereby.
(Ord. 2553, passed 4-12-1976)
§ 18-21.14 SALE OR LEASE OF CITY OWNED PROPERTY.
   No interest in real property of the City of Flint shall be disposed of,
transferred or otherwise alienated unless by ordinance or resolution of the
City Council.
(Ord. 3500, passed 9-23-2002)
ARTICLE V. UNIFORM CITY INCOME TAX
§ 18-22 ADOPTED.
   Act 284 of the Public Acts of 1964, being MCLA § 141.601 et seq., and MSA §
5.3194(11), as amended, providing for a uniform City Income Tax Ordinance, with
all of its terms and conditions, is hereby adopted pursuant to authority
contained within State statutes.
(Ord. 1802, passed 9-14-1964; Ord. 2940, passed 2-11-1985)
Statutory reference:
   City Income Tax Act, see MCLA §§ 141.601
§ 18-23 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the Uniform City Income Tax Ordinance shall be
amended as follows:
   (a)   Section 3 is amended by defining “Department.”
   (b)   Section 11 is added.
   Section 11. Subject to the exclusions, adjustments, exemptions and
deductions herein provided, an annual tax of one percent (1%) on corporations
and resident individuals and one-half of one percent (1/2%) on non-resident
individuals for general revenue purposes and the purposes provided for in
Section 11A is hereby imposed as an excise on income earned and received on and
after the effective date of this ordinance.
      (1)   For the 1993 tax year and each tax year after 1993, a city that is
a qualified local unit of government, as defined by the Federal Facility
Exemption Act, may adopt an ordinance or resolution, or may enter into an
agreement with a qualified local unit of government other than the city, to
dedicate and transfer funds in an amount determined pursuant to subsection (3)
solely and to the extent necessary for the purposes authorized for use of the
Federal Facility Development Fund created by the Federal Facility Development
Act.
      (2)   When a city adopts an ordinance or resolution or enters into an
agreement pursuant to subsection (1), the use or transfer of any funds
dedicated or to be transferred shall commence and continue until any bonds,
obligations or other evidences of indebtedness for which the funds are pledged
are fully paid.
      (3)   The amount dedicated or to be transferred by a city each year
pursuant to subsection (1) shall equal the amount of withheld tax remitted by a
qualified employer pursuant to Section 60 as reconciled pursuant to Section 61,
for all qualified employees.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         (A)   “Qualified employee” means a person who meets both the following
criteria:
            (I)   Is employed by a qualified employer.
            (II)   His or her principal workplace is a qualified facility.
         (B)   “Qualified facility” and “qualified local unit of government”
mean those terms as defined in the Federal Facility Development Act.
   (c)   Section 12 shall be amended to add Reg 12.1 as follows:
   Reg 12.1 A resident shareholder of a corporation electing S Corporation
status under the Internal Revenue Code shall report as taxable income their
proportionate share of the corporation’s income and shall be entitled to claim
a tax credit for their proportionate share of the income tax paid by the S
Corporation to a Michigan municipality.
   (d)   Section 14, Reg 14.1 shall be amended to read as follows:
   Reg 14.1 Corporations are not permitted to file as so-called “tax option”
corporations. Every corporation subject to the city tax must file a return and
pay the tax, regardless of any option available to it under Sections 1371-1377
of the Federal Internal Revenue Code.
   (e)   Section 31 shall be amended to read as follows:
   Section 31. An individual taxpayer in computing his or her taxable income is
allowed a deduction of six hundred dollars ($600) for each personal and
dependency exemption under the rules for determining exemptions and dependents
as provided in the Federal Internal Revenue Code.
   (f)   Section 35 is added:
   Section 35.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this ordinance and to the
extent and for the duration provided in the Michigan Renaissance Zone Act, Act
No. 376 of the Public Acts of 1996, being MCLA Sections 125.2681 to 125.2696,
for the 1997 tax year and each tax year after 1997, a qualified taxpayer may
deduct from gross income in determining income subject to tax under this
ordinance, to the extent a deduction is applicable to income subject to the tax
under this ordinance, an amount equal to one (1) of the following for the
specified types of taxpayers:
         (A)   For a qualified taxpayer as defined in subsection (12)(C)(I):
            (I)   Except as provided in Subparagraphs (II) and (III), income
subject to the tax that is earned or received in the tax year during the period
of time that the taxpayer was a qualified taxpayer.
            (II)   Capital gains subject to the tax that are received during
the tax year during the period of time that the taxpayer was a qualified
taxpayer. The deduction allowed under this subdivision shall be prorated based
on the percentage of time that the asset was held by the taxpayer while the
taxpayer was a qualified taxpayer.
            (III)   Income received by the qualified taxpayer from winning an
on-line lottery game sponsored by this state but only if the date on which the
drawing for that game was held is after the taxpayer became a qualified
taxpayer of a Renaissance Zone and income received by the taxpayer from winning
an instant lottery game sponsored by this state but only if the taxpayer was a
qualified taxpayer of a Renaissance Zone on the validation date of the lottery
ticket for that game.
         (B)   For a qualified taxpayer defined in Subsection (12)(C)(II), the
amount determined pursuant to Section 14, 19, 20 to 24, or 25 of this ordinance
multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the percentage that the
average net book value of the tangible personal property owned and the real
property including leasehold improvements, owned or used by the qualified
taxpayer in the business and situated within the Renaissance Zone during the
taxable period, is of the average net book value of all such property,
including leasehold improvements, owned or used by the taxpayer in the business
during the same period situated in the city plus the percentage that the total
compensation paid to employees for work done or for services performed within
the Renaissance Zone is of the total compensation paid to all the taxpayer’s
employees within the city during the period covered by the return and the
denominator of which is 2. For allocation purposes, compensation shall be
computed on the cash or accrual basis in accordance with the method used in
computing the entire net income of the taxpayer. Real property includes real
property rented or leased by the qualified taxpayer and the value of that
property is considered to be eight (8) times the annual gross rental on the
property. “Gross rental on the property” means gross rental of real property as
that term is defined in Section 21 of this ordinance.
         (C)   For a qualified taxpayer as defined in Subsection (12)(C)(III),
the amount determined pursuant to Section 15 of this ordinance multiplied by a
fraction the numerator of which is the percentage that the average net book
value of the tangible personal property owned and the real property, including
leasehold improvements, owned or used by the qualified taxpayer in the business
and situated within the Renaissance Zone during the taxable period, is of the
average net book value of all such property, including leasehold improvements,
owned or used by the taxpayer in the business during the same period situated
in the city plus the percentage that the total compensation paid to employees
for work done or for services performed within the Renaissance Zone is of the
total compensation paid to all the taxpayer’s employees within the city during
the period covered by the return and the denominator of which is 2. For
allocation purposes, compensation shall be computed on the cash or accrual
basis in accordance with the method used in computing the entire net income of
the taxpayer. Real property includes real property rented or leased by the
qualified taxpayer and the value of that property is considered to be eight (8)
times the annual gross rental on the property. “Gross rental on the property”
means gross rental of real property as that term is defined in Section 21 of
this ordinance.
      (2)   For a qualified taxpayer as defined in Subsections (12)(C)(II) and
(III), any portion of income subject to tax under this ordinance derived from
illegal activity conducted in a Renaissance Zone shall not be used to calculate
a deduction allowed under this section. For a qualified taxpayer who is an
individual, any portion of income subject to tax under this ordinance derived
from illegal activity conducted anywhere shall not be used to calculate the
deduction allowed under this section. For a qualified taxpayer as defined in
Subsections (12)(C)(II) and (III), any portion of the taxpayer’s tax liability
that is attributable to business activity related to the operation of a casino,
and business activity that is associated or affiliated with the operation of a
casino including, but not limited to, the operation of a parking lot, hotel,
motel, or retail store, shall not be used to calculate a credit under this
section. As used in this subsection, “casino” means a casino regulated by this
state pursuant to the Michigan Gaming Control and Revenue Act, Initiated Law of
1996, being MCLA Sections 432.201 to 432.216.
      (3)   Income used to calculate a deduction under any other section of
this ordinance shall not be used to calculate a deduction under this section.
      (4)   If a qualified taxpayer completes the residency requirements under
Subsection (12)(C) before the end of the tax year in which the qualified
taxpayer first resided in the Renaissance Zone, the qualified taxpayer may
claim the deduction allowed under this section for that tax year. If the
qualified taxpayer completes the residency requirements under Subsection (12)
(C) in a tax year subsequent to the tax year in which the qualified taxpayer
first resided in the Renaissance Zone, the following apply:
         (A)   If the qualified taxpayer completes the residency requirement in
a tax year subsequent to the tax year in which the taxpayer first resided in
the Renaissance Zone and before the date for filing the annual return under
this ordinance for the tax year in which the taxpayer first resided in the
Renaissance Zone, the taxpayer may claim the deduction allowed under this
section for the tax year in which the taxpayer first resided in the Renaissance
Zone.
         (B)   If the qualified taxpayer completes the residency requirement in
a tax year subsequent to the tax year in which the taxpayer first resided in
the Renaissance Zone and after the date for filing the annual return under this
ordinance for the tax year in which the taxpayer first resided in the
Renaissance Zone and after the date for filing the annual return under this
ordinance for the tax year in which the taxpayer first resided in the
Renaissance Zone, the qualified taxpayer may claim the deduction allowed under
this section for the tax year in which the residency requirement is completed
on the annual return for the tax year in which the residency requirement is
completed and may claim the deduction for the tax year in which the qualified
taxpayer first resided in the Renaissance Zone by filing an amended return for
that tax year in which the qualified taxpayer first resided in the Renaissance
Zone.
      (5)   To be eligible for the deduction under this section, a taxpayer
shall file an annual return under this ordinance.
      (6)   A qualified taxpayer shall file a withholding form prescribed by
the city with his or her employer after the date the qualified taxpayer
completes the requirements under Subsection (12)(C) or, at the option of the
city, for taxpayers who claim to be qualified taxpayers under Subsection (12)
(C)(I), the taxpayer shall file a form prescribed by the city with the city
after the date the taxpayer completes the requirements under Subsection (12)(C)
(I). If the city verifies the information on the form, the city shall issue a
certificate of qualification to the taxpayer which the taxpayer shall file with
his or her employer. When a taxpayer who filed a form under this subsection is
no longer a qualified taxpayer under Subsection (12)(C)(I), the taxpayer shall
send a written notice of that change in status to the city not more than ten
(10) days after the change in status occurs.
      (7)   If the Administrator finds that a taxpayer has claimed a deduction
under this section to which he or she is not entitled, the taxpayer is subject
to the interest and penalty provisions under this ordinance.
      (8)   The deduction allowed under this section continues through the tax
year in which the Renaissance Zone designation expires.
      (9)   A net operating loss deduction allowed under this ordinance shall
be calculated without regard to any deduction allowed under this section.
      (10)   If a taxpayer who was a qualified taxpayer during the tax year
changes status and is not a qualified taxpayer or vice versa, income subject to
tax under this ordinance shall be determined separately for income in each
status.
      (11)   A qualified taxpayer as defined in Subsection (12)(C)(I) is a
resident of a Renaissance Zone for purposes of Act No. 376 of the Public Acts
of 1996. A qualified taxpayer as defined in Subsection (12)(C)(II) or (III) is
located and conducts business in a Renaissance Zone for purposes of Act No. 376
of the Public Acts of 1996.
      (12)   As used in this section:
         (A)   “Conducts business activity” means doing business as defined in
this ordinance.
         (B)   “Domicile” means a place where a person has his or her true,
fixed, and permanent home and principal establishment to which, whenever
absent, he or she intends to return, and domicile continues until another
permanent establishment is established.
         (C)   “Qualified taxpayer” means one of the following:
            (I)   A taxpayer who is an individual, a resident of the city as
determined under this ordinance, and is domiciled in an area of the city that
is designated a Renaissance Zone for a period of 183 consecutive days. A
taxpayer may begin calculating the 183-day period during the 183 days
immediately preceding the designation of the area as a Renaissance Zone.
Qualified taxpayer under this subparagraph includes the estate of an individual
who was a qualified taxpayer at the time of death. After a taxpayer has
completed the 183-day requirement under this subparagraph, the taxpayer is
considered to have been a qualified taxpayer of that Renaissance Zone beginning
from the first day used to determine if the 183-day requirement has been met.
            (II)   A taxpayer that is a corporation and that is located and
conducts business activity in a Renaissance Zone in the city.
            (III)   A person who is located in and conducts business activity
as an unincorporated business, profession, or other activity in a Renaissance
Zone and is not a qualified taxpayer under Subparagraph (I) or (II).
         (D)   “Renaissance Zone” means that term as defined in Act No. 376 of
the Public Acts of 1996.
   (g)   Section 41 is amended to provide for filing with the state and to
change the deadline for filing when returns are filed with the state.
   (h)   Section 43 is amended by adding Subsection 4-11.
   (i)   Section 52 is amended by adding Section D.
   (j)   Section 54 is amended to provide for Renaissance Zone exemptions.
   (k)   Section 55 is amended by adding Subsections 2 and 3 to provide for
employee’s notification to employer of residency in a Renaissance Zone.
   (l)   Section 60 is amended by adding Subsection 2 to provide for electronic
filing with the state and to add Reg 60.1. and the section shall be further
amended to read as follows:
      Section 60. An employer shall file a return, furnished by or obtainable
on request from the city, and pay to the city the full amount of tax withheld
on or before the last day of the month following the close of each calendar
quarter, except that during any calendar month other than the first month of a
calendar quarter the amount withheld exceeds one hundred dollars ($100), the
employer shall deposit the amount withheld with the City Treasurer before the
end of the next calendar month.
      Reg. 60.1 All payroll service companies that withhold and remit taxes for
employers doing business or located inside of the City of Flint must remit
funds electronically and submit an approved file to the City Income Tax
Department.
   (m)   Section 61 is amended by adding Subsection 4 to provide for filing
with the State when business ceases operation and shall further be amended to
read as follows:
      Section 61.
      (1)   An employer shall file a reconciliation of his quarterly returns on
or before the last day of February following each calendar year in which he has
withheld from an employee’s compensation. A deficiency is due when the
reconciliation is filed. If the employer made monthly or quarterly or both
payments in excess of the amount withheld from an employee’s compensation, the
city upon proper verification shall refund the excess to the employer.
      (2)   In addition to the reconciliation the employer shall file an
information return for each employee from whom the city income tax has been
withheld and each employee subject to withholding under this ordinance, setting
forth his or her name, address, social security number, the total amount of
compensation paid him or her during the year, and the amount of city income tax
withheld from him or her. The information return shall be a copy of the Federal
W-2 form or on a form furnished or approved by the city. A copy of the
information return shall be furnished to the employee.
      (3)   If an employer goes out of business or otherwise ceases to be an
employer, reconciliation forms and the information return forms shall be filed
by the date the final withholding return and payment are due.
   (n)   Section 62 is added and further amended by providing for filing
estimated tax with State where agreement has been entered into within
Subsection 1.
      Section 62.
      (1)   A person who anticipates taxable income from which the city income
tax will not be withheld with the city or the department shall file a
declaration of estimated tax on a form furnished by or obtainable on request
from the city or from the department if the city has entered into an agreement
pursuant to Section 9 of Chapter 1. A calendar year taxpayer shall file a
declaration on or before each April 30 or for the years after the 1996 tax year
and for which a city has entered into an agreement with the Department of
Treasury pursuant to Section 9 of Chapter 1, on or before each April 15. A
taxpayer on a fiscal year basis or other accounting period shall file a
declaration within four (4) months after the beginning of each fiscal year or
other accounting period.
      (2)   If a taxpayer has not previously been required to file, the
declaration shall be filed on or before the first date for making a quarterly
payment that occurs after the taxpayer becomes subject to the requirement to
file declaration. A taxpayer shall file a declaration for the same calendar
year, fiscal year, or other accounting period that has been accepted by the
federal internal revenue service for federal income tax purposes. A declaration
by an individual or unincorporated entity is not required if the total
estimated tax, less any credits applicable to the tax, does not exceed $100. A
declaration by a corporation is not required if the total estimated tax, less
any credits applicable to the tax, does not exceed $250. A declaration by or on
behalf of an estate or trust is not required.
   (o)   Section 63 Subsection 2 is amended to provide for payment of estimated
tax to state where agreement has been entered into between City and State.
   (p)   Section 64 is amended to provide for filing annual return with state
where agreement has been entered between City and State.
   (q)   Section 64A(1) and (2) is amended to provide for payment of tax when
business is sold or ceases to exist.
   (r)   Section 66 is amended to provide for rounding up or down of tax owed.
   (s)   Section 71 is amended to provide for deposit of tax fund collected by
the State to be deposited in a City income tax trust fund.
   (t)   Section 73(1) is amended to provide for examination by the Department
or Administrator of taxpayer records where there is reason to believe that the
return does not provide sufficient information for accurate determination.
Also, the amending of Subsection (2), and the addition of Subsections (3) and
(4) to provide for resolution of tax disputes or provide a penalty for
frivolous protests.
   (u)   Section 81 by deleting the section.
   (v)   Section 82 is added and further amended to provide for interest at the
adjusted price rates and by adding Subsections 3, 4, and 5 to provide separate
penalties for neglect, intentional disregard and fraud.
      Section 82.
      (1)   All taxes imposed in a taxable year before the 1992 taxable year on
a taxpayer and money withheld by an employer under this ordinance and remaining
unpaid after the taxes or money withheld are due bear interest from the due
date at the rate of 1/2 of 1% per month until paid. For the 1992 taxable year
and each taxable year after 1992, all taxes imposed on a taxpayer and money
withheld by an employer under this ordinance and remaining unpaid after the
taxes or money withheld are due bear interest from the due date at the current
monthly rate of 1 percentage point above the adjusted prime rate per annum per
month until the tax or money is paid. The term “adjusted prime rate” means the
average predominant prime rate quoted by not less than three commercial banks
to large businesses, as determined by the Department of Treasury. The adjusted
prime rate is to be based on the average prime rate charged by not less than
three commercial banks during the 12-month period ending on September 30. One
percentage point shall be added to the adjusted prime rate, and the resulting
sum shall be divided by 12 to establish the current monthly interest rate. The
resulting current monthly interest rate based on the 12-month period ending
September 30 will become effective on January 1 of the following year.
      (2)   A person failing to file a return, pay the tax, or to remit
withholding when due, is liable, in addition to the interest, to a penalty of
1% of the amount of the unpaid tax for each month or fraction of a month, not
to exceed a total penalty of 25% of the unpaid tax. If a return is filed or
remittance is paid after the time specified and it is shown to the satisfaction
of the city that the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful
neglect, the penalty shall be waived by the Administrator. If the total
interest or interest and penalty to be assessed is less than $2, the
Administrator shall instead assess $2.
   (w)   Section 84(1) is amended to provide for proposed assessment for tax
years which there is no agreement to collect between the state and city.
   (x)   Section 85 is added.
      (1)   After the hearing the Administrator shall issue a final assessment
setting forth the total amount found due in the proposed assessment and any
adjustment he may have made as a result of the protest. The final assessment
shall be served in the same manner as a proposed assessment. Proof of mailing
of the final assessment is prima facie evidence of a receipt thereof by the
addressee.
         Rule 85.1
   In those cases where the City Income Tax Administrator, after issuing a
final assessment to a taxpayer but before a civil or criminal action for
collection is brought, is satisfied that the amount of the final assessment is
an overstatement of the taxpayer’s liability, the Administrator shall issue a
revised final assessment reducing the amount of the final assessment. The
Administrator shall issue such a revised assessment only if: 1) the amount
determined to be due from the taxpayer is less than the amount of the final
assessment; 2) the taxpayer agrees with the Administrator’s revised
determination of the amount due; 3) the taxpayer’s records adequately document
the Administrator’s revised determination of the amount due; 4) the
Administrator is satisfied that, had the taxpayer made such information
available before the issuance of a final assessment, the proposed assessment
would have been revised to reflect the revised determination of the amount due;
and 5) the time for any appeal under the income tax ordinance has expired. In
those cases where the Income Tax Administrator is reviewing a final assessment
under the circumstances listed above, a review cost, which shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City
Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code, shall be added to the
final assessment. This cost shall be comprised of postage, employee wages and
paper costs expended by the Treasury Division which would have not been
expended had the taxpayer provided information and returns as prescribed in
this income tax ordinance.
   (y)   Section 86 is amended to allow the Department to issue a demand for
payment.
   (z)   Section 87 is amended by adding Subsection 2 to provide for tax
warrants where collection of tax is in jeopardy by departure from the city or
hiding assets and further amended to read as follows:
      Section 87. If the city believes that collection of the tax withheld from
an employee’s compensation as imposed under this ordinance will be jeopardized
by delay, the city, whether or not the time otherwise prescribed by the
ordinance for making the return and paying or depositing the tax has expired,
shall immediately assess the tax and interest and additions provided by the
ordinance. The tax, interest and additions thereupon shall become immediately
due and payable and the city shall make an immediate notice and demand for
payment, notwithstanding the fact that the withheld tax is not due under the
ordinance until the last day of the month following the end of the calendar
month or quarter.
   (aa)   Section 87(1) is amended to provide for notice and demand for payment
for withholding by Tax Administrator or Department.
   (bb)   Section 89 is amended by allowing four years to request a refund.
   (cc)   Section 92 is amended to provide for notice to the State Department
of Treasury for appeals.
   (dd)   Section 94(1) is amended by restating of same, and adding Subsections
2 and 3 to provide for appeals from decision of Tax Tribunals to be made to
State Court of Appeals and to provide a 90-day period to appeal a decision of
the Tax Administrator or department.
   (ee)   Section 95 is amended to provide for payment of decision to refund
from City Income Tax Trust Fund where agreement to collect is entered into
between state and city.
(Ord. 2241, passed 12-7-1970; Ord. 2355, passed 8-21-1972 ; Ord. 2940, passed
2-11-1985; Ord. 3070, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 3222, passed 11-9-1992; Ord. 3262,
passed 12-13-1993; Ord. 3351, passed 7-14-1997; Ord. 3391, passed 12-16-1998;
Ord. 3406, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3792, passed 3-14-2011)
Statutory reference:
   City Income Tax Act, see MCLA 141.501 et seq., 141.601 et seq.
ARTICLE VI. DELINQUENT TAXES
§ 18-24 DELIVERY TO COUNTY TREASURER FOR COLLECTION.
   All delinquent City taxes and special assessments, as well as all delinquent
school taxes and any other taxes collected by the City of Flint, shall, on
March 1 of each year after such tax shall become delinquent, be delivered to
the County Treasurer for the County of Genesee to be collected in accordance
with the provisions of Act 206 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1893, as amended,
being MCLA § 211.55 and MSA § 7.99.
(Ord. 2788, passed 1-26-1981)
§ 18-25 NOTICE, DISPOSITION, JUDGMENT AND PERIOD OF REDEMPTION FOR DELINQUENT
GENERAL PROPERTY TAXES.
   The notice, disposition, judgment and period of redemption set forth for
general property taxes which are delinquent in a township in the State of
Michigan shall apply to the taxes returned for collection to the Genesee County
Treasurer.
(Ord. 2788, passed 1-26-1981)
§ 18-26 RIGHTS, DUTIES, POWERS, IMMUNITIES AND PROCEDURES OF COUNTY TREASURER
RELATIVE TO REAL PROPERTY TAXES DELIVERED FOR COLLECTION.
   The County Treasurer of the County of Genesee shall have all rights, duties,
powers, immunities and procedures established by State law in connection with
the collection and enforcement of the real property taxes being delivered for
collection to the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 2788, passed 1-26-1981)
§ 18-26.1 ADMINISTRATION FEE.
   For all ad valorem property tax levies that become a lien in 1993 or any
year thereafter and that have a due date under law of February 14 of the
succeeding year, the City Treasurer shall add to those taxes voluntarily paid
before February 15 of such succeeding year a property tax administration fee in
the amount of one percent (1%) of the tax.
(Ord. 3239, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 18-26.2 LATE PENALTY CHARGE.
   For all ad valorem property tax levies that become a lien in 1993 or any
year thereafter and that have a due date under law of February 14 of the
succeeding year, the City Treasurer shall add to all taxes paid after February
14 and before March 1 of such succeeding year a property tax administration fee
in the amount of one percent (1%) of the tax and a late penalty charge in the
amount of three percent (3%) of the tax.
(Ord. 3239, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 18-26.3 COLLECTION FEE. 
   For all personal property tax levies that become a lien in 1993 or any year
thereafter and that have a due date of February 14 of the succeeding year, the
City Treasurer shall add to those taxes paid on or after March 1 of such
succeeding year a collection fee in the amount of four percent (4%) of the tax.
(Ord. 3239, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 18-26.4 ADMINISTRATION FEE — DUE DATE ESTABLISHED BY CHARTER.
   For all ad valorem property tax levies that become a lien in 1993 or any
year thereafter and that have a due date established by City Charter, the City
Treasurer shall add to those taxes voluntarily paid on or before such Charter
established due date as property tax administration fee in the amount of one
percent (1%) of the tax.
(Ord. 3239, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 18-26.5 COLLECTION FEE — DUE DATE ESTABLISHED BY CHARTER.
   For all personal property tax levies, other than for City taxes, that become
a lien in 1993 or any year thereafter and that have a due date established by
City Charter, the City Treasurer shall add to all such taxes paid after the
Charter established due date a collection fee of four percent (4%) of the tax.
(Ord. 3239, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 18-26.6 LATE PENALTY CHARGE — DUE DATE ESTABLISHED BY CHARTER.
   For City personal property tax levies that become a lien in 1993 and any
year thereafter and that have a due date established by City Charter, the City
Treasurer shall add to all such taxes paid after the Charter established due
date a late penalty charge of four percent (4%).
(Ord. 3239, passed 7-12-1993)
ARTICLE VII. EXPENDITURE OF APPROPRIATED FUNDS
§ 18-27 GRIEVANCE UPON REFUSAL OF CITY AGENCY TO EXPEND APPROPRIATED FUNDS —
RIGHT OF AGGRIEVED PERSON TO DEMAND HEARING.
   Any person believing himself or herself to be aggrieved by the refusal of
any City agency to expend funds within amounts appropriated by the City Council
may demand a hearing before the City Council on the issue of the expenditure of
the funds. The demand shall be in writing and filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2858, passed 10-25-1982)
§ 18-27.1 GRATUITOUS CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE CITY SHALL BE FORMALLY ACCEPTED BY
RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   All contributions to the City of Flint in excess of twenty dollars ($20.00)
shall be formally accepted by resolution of the City Council. Such resolution
shall identify the source and amount of each such contribution and the fund to
which it is contributed.
(Ord. 3287, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 18-28 SAME — NOTIFICATION OF HEARING.
   Upon receipt of a written demand, the Clerk shall notify the Mayor and any
persons or agencies the Clerk believes may be interested in the matter of the
time and place of hearing.
(Ord. 2858, passed 10-25-1982)
§ 18-29 SAME — REMEDY BY COUNCIL.
   After hearing from all persons interested in the matter and receiving such
other information as the Council deems appropriate, the Council may affirm or
remand the decision with directions that it be reconsidered, after examination
of the new information obtained. If the Council is persuaded that the decision
under review is not likely to serve the best interests of the City of Flint,
the decision shall be modified accordingly and shall stand, as modified, as a
decision of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2858, passed 10-25-1982)
ARTICLE VIII. COUNTERCYCLICAL BUDGET AND ECONOMIC STABILIZATION FUND
§ 18-30 CREATED.
   (a)   A Countercyclical Budget and Economic Stabilization Fund is created to
assist in stabilizing revenue and employment during periods of economic
recession and high unemployment.
   (b)   As used in §§
18-30 to
18-34, FUND means the Countercyclical Budget and Economic Stabilization Fund.
(Ord. 2983, passed 3-24-1986)
§ 18-31 APPROPRIATION FOR FUND.
   Each fiscal year the City Council may appropriate all or part of a surplus
in the General Fund resulting from an excess of revenue in comparison to the
General Fund expenses, to the fund.
(Ord. 2983, passed 3-24-1986)
§ 18-32 LIMITATION ON AMOUNT OF MONEY IN FUND.
   (a)   The amount of money in the fund shall not exceed either fifteen
percent (15%) of the City’s most recent General Fund budget, as originally
adopted, or fifteen percent (15%) of the average of the City’s most recent
General Fund budgets, as amended, whichever is less.
   (b)   The money in the fund shall be invested as provided by law with the
earnings of the fund to be returned to the City’s General Fund.
   (c)   If the money in the fund exceeds that permitted in subsection (a), the
excess shall be appropriated in the City’s next General Fund budget, but shall
not be appropriated to the fund.
(Ord. 2983, passed 3-24-1986)
§ 18-33 PURPOSE FOR WHICH FUND MAY BE USED.
   Money in the Budget Stabilization Fund may be appropriated by ordinance or
resolution adopted by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the City Council for the
following purposes:
   (a)   To cover a General Fund deficit, when the City’s annual audit reveals
a deficit;
   (b)   To prevent a reduction in the level of public services or in the
number of employees at any time in a fiscal year when the City’s budget revenue
is not being collected in an amount sufficient to cover budgeted expenses;
   (c)   To prevent a reduction in the level of public services or in the
number of employees when in preparing the budget for the next fiscal year the
City’s estimated revenue does not appear sufficient to cover estimated
expenses;
   (d)   To cover expenses arising because of a natural disaster, including
flood, fire or tornado. However, if Federal or State funds are received to
offset the appropriations from the General Fund, that money shall be returned
to the fund. In determining whether the City’s revenue is not sufficient to
cover its expenses, a reduction in the amount of money received for the
previous fiscal year, including a reduction in the allocation of State tax
money shall be considered.
(Ord. 2983, passed 3-24-1986)
§ 18-34 PURPOSES FOR WHICH FUND MAY NOT BE USED.
   Money in the Budget Stabilization Fund shall not be appropriated for the
acquisition, construction or alteration of a facility as part of a General
Capital Improvement Program.
(Ord. 2983, passed 3-24-1986)
§§ 18-35 – 18-39 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. AGENCIES CREATED BY COUNCIL RECEIVING FUNDS FROM CITY
§ 18-40 NOTIFICATION OF COUNCIL ON EXPENDITURE OVER $2,000.00.
   All agencies and/or bodies which are, pursuant to State statute, created by
action of the City Council and receive funds from or through the City of Flint,
must include in their lawfully adopted bylaws or rules and regulations
governing their operations provisions for the notification of the Flint City
Council on each occasion that checks, drafts or orders for payment of money,
notes or other evidences of indebtedness in excess of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) are issued in the name of that agency or body.
(Ord. 3167, passed 5-28-1991)
CHAPTER 19: FIRE PROTECTION *
Section
Article I. In General
   
19-1   International Fire Code adopted
   19-2 – 19-10   Reserved
   
19-11   False fire alarms prohibited; exception
   
19-11.1   False alarms for medical assistance prohibited; penalty
   
19-12   Tampering or injuring fire alarm system
   
19-13   Making or possession of keys to signal boxes; exceptions
   
19-14   Reward for apprehension of violators
   
19-15   Use of fire extinguisher for other than fighting fires; notification of
use of extinguisher system
   19-16 – 19-20   Reserved
Article II. Fire Department
   
19-21   Supervised by Fire Chief
   
19-22   Preparation and posting of rules
   
19-23   Suspension or discharge of members
   
19-24   Responsibility for and maintenance of buildings, equipment and the
like; purchase of supplies
   
19-25   Responsibilities and duties of Fire Chief at fires
   
19-26   Obedience to orders at fire; right of entry; authority of Fire Chief to
arrest obstructors at fire
   
19-27   Damaging or removing equipment or apparatus
   
19-28   Driving across fire hoses
   
19-29   Sirens
Article III. Reserved
   19-30 – 19-68   Reserved
Article IV. Reserved
Article V. Fire Escapes, Exits and the Like
   19-93 – 19-97   Reserved
   
19-98   Obstructing fire escapes
   
19-99   Obstructing entrances and exits of certain buildings; exceptions
   
19-100   Vehicles standing in front of entrance or exit; exceptions; fire lanes
for Flint College and Cultural Center
   
19-101   Registration plates evidence that owner parked vehicle in violation
   
19-102   Removal and disposition of vehicles parked in violation
Cross-reference:
   Airport, explosives at, see §
5-18
   Airport fire regulations, see §§
5-30 —
5-36
   Dumping grounds, burning in, see §
39-38
   Fire, approaching within two miles, see §
14-1
   Fire hydrants
    Construction standards, see §
46-14
    Obstructing of, see §
46-10
   Junk yards, burning on premises, see §
12-67.2
   Leaves, rubbish and the like, burning of, see §
42-19
   Parking near fire apparatus, see §
28-10
   Parks, building fires prohibited, see §
33-14
   Signal system, attaching to pole, see §
37-5
Statutory reference:
   Fire prevention, see MSA §§ 4.559(1) – 4.559(25)
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 19-1 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of MCLA § 117.3(k), the 2006 International Fire
Code as published by the International Code Council, Inc., except such portions
as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, together with such City of
Flint administrative amendments to the 2006 International Fire Code, as may be
adopted by the City Council from time to time and filed with the City Clerk’s
office for public inspection, are hereby adopted by reference to provide for
the prevention of fires and the protection of persons and property from
exposure to the dangers of fire and explosion.
(Ord. 2360, passed 8-28-1972; Ord. 2687, passed 1-8-1979; Ord. 2830, passed 4-
26-1982; Ord. 2949, passed 5-13-1985; Ord. 3056, passed 5-9-1988; Ord. 3378,
passed 7-27-1998; Ord. 3711, passed 5-12-2008)
§§ 19-2 – 19-10 RESERVED.
§ 19-11 FALSE FIRE ALARMS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or designedly to give, assist
in giving countenance or request or cause to be given any false alarm of fire
in any manner; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to members
of the Fire Department, or Signal System Force, in making tests or repairs
under the direction of the proper authorities.
(Ord. 335, passed 1-24-1930)
Statutory reference:
   False fire alarms, see MCLA 750.240
§ 19-11.1 FALSE ALARMS FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE PROHIBITED; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willingly or designedly to give,
assist in giving, countenance or request or cause to be given any false alarm
regarding a request for medical assistance or a medical emergency.
   Any person upon conviction for the violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment not exceeding ninety (90) days or by both such fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the Court, for each such offense.
(Ord. 3106, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 19-12 TAMPERING OR INJURING FIRE ALARM SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper, meddle or in any way
interfere with any station or signal box of any fire alarm telegraph system or
any auxiliary appliance, or willfully to break, injure, deface or remove, or to
make any connection or communication with the poles, wires, boxes or other
parts of fixtures of the fire alarm system so as to interrupt or interfere with
the proper working of the same, or to mutilate or destroy any notices that may
be legally posted relating to the same.
(Ord. 335, passed 1-24-1930)
§ 19-13 MAKING OR POSSESSION OF KEYS TO SIGNAL BOXES; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made, or to use
or have in his possession any key, or impression or duplicate of any signal box
of the fire alarm telegraph without the written permission of the Chief of the
Fire Department.
(Ord. 335, passed 1-24-1930)
§ 19-14 REWARD FOR APPREHENSION OF VIOLATORS.
   The City of Flint will pay a reward of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the
apprehension of any person violating or attempting to violate any provision of
this ordinance, to be paid upon conviction of such person.
(Ord. 335, passed 1-24-1930)
§ 19-15 USE OF FIRE EXTINGUISHER FOR OTHER THAN FIGHTING FIRES; NOTIFICATION OF
USE OF EXTINGUISHER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use water from any fire pipe or
extinguisher system, or to break or remove seals thereon except in case of
fire, and it shall be unlawful for any person after breaking such seals to fail
or neglect to give notice thereof to the Superintendent of said Waterworks
System within twenty-four (24) hours after the breaking or removal thereof.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§§ 19-16 – 19-20 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 19-21 SUPERVISED BY FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the direct and immediate control
and management of the Fire Department of the City of Flint and of the property
and apparatus belonging thereto.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-13-1902)
§ 19-22 PREPARATION AND POSTING OF RULES.
   The Fire Chief shall prepare proper rules for the government of the Fire
Department, which shall be posted in the engine and hose houses, and a copy of
which shall be furnished to every member of the Fire Department. Any violation
of said rules shall be punished as a violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-13-1902)
§ 19-23 SUSPENSION OR DISCHARGE OF MEMBERS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power, whenever in his judgment
the interest of the department requires to suspend for the time being, or
wholly remove any person appointed to, or in the employ of such Department.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-13-1902)
§ 19-24 RESPONSIBILITY FOR AND MAINTENANCE OF BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT AND THE
LIKE; PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have charge of all buildings,
apparatus, tools and other property belonging to or used by the department;
shall see that the property is maintained in good condition, and that the fire
apparatus is kept in repair and ready for immediate use.
   The Director of Purchases and Supplies shall purchase such supplies as may
be necessary for the use of the department, and shall see that all supplies and
material purchased or furnished are properly and economically used; provided,
that nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Chief of the
Fire Department from making such repairs and furnishing such supplies as may be
necessary to keep the fire apparatus in good condition for immediate use.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-13-1902)
§ 19-25 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF AT FIRES.
   The Chief of Fire Department shall have full power, control and command over
all persons whatever at any fire. The Chief of the Fire Department, or any
person for the time being lawfully controlling the Fire Department, shall so
use the fire apparatus and direct the efforts and labors of their assistants of
every grade as to extinguish the fire with the least possible damage.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-13-1902)
§ 19-26 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS AT FIRE; RIGHT OF ENTRY; AUTHORITY OF FIRE CHIEF TO
ARREST OBSTRUCTORS AT FIRE.
   All officers and persons at a fire shall obey every lawful order or
direction given by the person duly authorized to order or direct at such fire.
The officers and members of the Fire Department and those working under their
direction shall have the right to enter upon any ground or building to lay hose
thereon or to make any use thereof by them deemed necessary in the
extinguishment or prevention of fire. No person shall obstruct, resist, impede
or oppose any officer or other person in the discharge of his lawful duty at a
fire. The Chief of the Fire Department may arrest or order the arrest without
process of any person who at a fire shall obstruct, hinder or oppose them or
either of them in the discharge of their duties.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-13-1902)
§ 19-27 DAMAGING OR REMOVING EQUIPMENT OR APPARATUS.
   No person shall enter any place where engines, hose carriages, hose, hook
and ladder carriages or other fire apparatus shall be kept, with intent to
injure the same, or shall at any time or place willfully injure any engine or
fire apparatus, or remove any portion thereof, or do any damage to any engine
house or fixtures therein, or without lawful authority remove from the engine
or hose houses any fire apparatus belonging to or used by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-13-1902)
§ 19-28 DRIVING ACROSS FIRE HOSES.
   No person shall ride or drive any carriage, sleigh, cart, wagon, or other
vehicle upon or cross any hose used by the Fire Department of the City of Flint
in any street, lane, alley or other place in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 11, passed 5-13-1902)
§ 19-29 SIRENS.
   All Fire Department apparatus of the City of Flint shall be equipped with
siren whistles for the purpose of sounding an alarm when going to fires instead
of gongs as heretofore.
(Ord. 13, passed 8-20-1912)
ARTICLE III. RESERVED
§§ 19-30 – 19-68 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. RESERVED
ARTICLE V. FIRE ESCAPES, EXITS AND THE LIKE
§§ 19-93 – 19-97 RESERVED.
§ 19-98 OBSTRUCTING FIRE ESCAPES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to
obstruct or cause to be obstructed any fire escape, as provided for by Act 170,
Public Acts of the State of Michigan of 1883 in such a manner as to interfere,
in case of fire, with the escape of the patrons and occupants of any theater,
church, office building, public dance hall, club, or building which is
designated to be a building in which a large number of people are accustomed to
gather.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-29-1937)
§ 19-99 OBSTRUCTING ENTRANCES AND EXITS OF CERTAIN BUILDINGS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm or corporation to
obstruct or cause to be obstructed the entrance or exit of any theater, church,
office building, public dance hall, club, or building that is designated to be
a building in which a large number of people are accustomed to gather, except
for the purpose of temporarily loading or unloading merchandise.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-29-1937)
§ 19-100 VEHICLES STANDING IN FRONT OF ENTRANCE OR EXIT; EXCEPTIONS; FIRE LANES
FOR FLINT COLLEGE AND CULTURAL CENTER.
   No vehicle shall be permitted to stand in front of the entrance or exit of
any theater, church, office building, public dance hall, club, or building
which is designated to be a building in which a large number of people are
accustomed to gather, except for the purpose of stopping to take on or
discharge passengers or merchandise.
   For the purpose of providing fire protection for the Flint College and
Cultural Center, the following fire lanes are designated:
   (a)   A fire lane 24 feet in width running northerly from East Court Street
on the easterly edge of the parking lot, said fire lane being marked on East
Court Street by a sign designating “Entrance.” Said fire lane also being
bounded on the east by a curb and on the west by a white painted line. Said
fire lane also extends northerly along the easterly side of the Mott Community
Center of Science and Applied Arts Building as designated by white painted
lines.
   (b)   A fire lane consisting of the extension of East Second Street as
extended west from the end of the pavement to and including the area north of
the Mott Community Center of Science and Applied Arts Building and the Curtis
Community College Building as included in and marked by white lines.
   (c)   A fire lane 24 feet in width running northerly from East Court Street
and being designated on East Court Street as “Exit” and running north to the
Mott Community Center of Science and Applied Arts Building and as marked by
white lines.
   (d)   A fire lane running from Ballenger Field House to the fire lane
designated in subparagraph(c) hereof, and including all area between curbs or
as marked by white lines.
   (e)   A 24-foot fire lane running on the southerly and westerly sides of the
Mott Community Center of Science and Applied Arts Building as marked by white
lines.
   No vehicle shall be permitted to stand in any of the above fire lanes
designated except for the purpose of stopping to take on or discharge
passengers or merchandise.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-29-1937; Ord. 1360, passed 1-7-1957)
§ 19-101 REGISTRATION PLATES EVIDENCE  THAT OWNER PARKED VEHICLE IN VIOLATION.
   In any proceedings for violation of the provisions of this ordinance, the
registration plates displayed on any motor vehicle shall constitute in evidence
a prima facie presumption that the owner of such motor vehicle was the person
who parked or placed such motor vehicle at the point where such violation
occurred.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-29-1937)
§ 19-102 REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES PARKED IN VIOLATION.
   When any vehicle shall hereinafter be parked or left standing contrary to
the provisions of this ordinance, such vehicle may be removed by or under the
direction of any member of the Police Department to a place or places in the
City of Flint to be designated by the Chief of Police, and it shall be the duty
of any police officer so removing or causing to be removed any such vehicle to
make a report thereof in writing and in duplicate, stating the make of such
vehicle, the manufacturer’s number of the motor therein, if any, and the State
license number thereon, and file the same with the clerk of the Police
Department of the City, and any person owning or entitled to the possession of
such vehicle so removed, may thereafter obtain possession thereof, by paying a
fee to the Clerk of the Police Department. Said fee shall be established form
time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk,
and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. It shall be the duty of any such
clerk collecting any such fee to issue a receipt therefor, in duplicate,
stating the make, manufacturer’s number of the motor, if any, and State license
number, together with the name of the owner or person entitled to the
possession thereof, one of which shall be handed by said clerk to the person
paying the same, and the other of such receipts shall be filed in the office of
such clerk, and as soon thereafter as may be, such clerk shall pay to the
Treasurer of the City of Flint, the amount so collected, taking the Treasurer’s
receipt therefor and filing the same in the office of such clerk; any such
vehicle which shall remain in the custody of the Police Department for a period
exceeding one week and shall not have been reclaimed, shall be deemed lost or
abandoned and upon notice from the Chief of Police, the City Clerk shall give
notice in the official newspaper of the City of Flint, for six successive
weeks, after which the same shall be sold at auction, under the direction of
the Chief of Police, and the monies received from such sale, after deducting
the cost of removal, storage, and sale thereof, shall be deposited with the
Treasurer of the City of Flint, to be paid to the person, company or
corporation entitled thereto, upon evidence of ownership satisfactory to the
Chief of Police, Mayor and City Clerk.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-29-1937; Ord. 3407, passed 2-8-1999)
CHAPTER 20: RESERVED
Editor’s note:
   All of Chapter 20 was repealed by Ordinance 3247, passed by City Council on
August 23, 1993 and effective on September 26, 1993.
CHAPTER 21: RESERVED
Editor’s note: 
   All of Chapter 21 was repealed by Ordinance 3251, passed on September 27,
1993 and effective on October 31, 1993.
CHAPTER 22: HEATING
Section
   
22-1   Agency designated to enforce State Mechanical Code
   
22-1.1   Repealer
   
22-2   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
§ 22-1 AGENCY DESIGNATED TO ENFORCE STATE MECHANICAL CODE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Mechanical Code, in accordance
with Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of
the City of Flint is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibilities of the City of Flint under Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972,
as amended. The City of Flint, through its Department of Public Works and
Utilities, Building Inspections Division, by adoption of this ordinance assumes
responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the State of Michigan
Mechanical Code in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 3034, passed 5-11-1987; Ord. 3091, passed 2-13-1989; Ord. 3210, passed 7-
13-1992; Ord. 3227, passed 12-14-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Buildings, see
Ch. 11
   Electricity, see
Ch. 16
   Plumbing, see
Ch. 36
Statutory reference:
   State Construction Code Act, see MCLA 125.1501 et seq.
§ 22-1.1 REPEALER.
   All ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 3227, passed 12-14-1992)
§ 22-2 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §
22-1 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3554, passed 6-9-2004)
CHAPTER 23: RESERVED
Editor’s note:  
   The ordinances formerly located in this chapter, Hotels and Rooming Houses,
is now located in
Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 24: HOUSING
Section
Article I. International Property Maintenance Code
   
24-1   Adoption; amendments
   
24-2   Dangerous building — conditions constituting
   
24-3   Same — notice; lien on property; other remedies
   
24-4   Adoption — Comprehensive Rental Inspection Code
   24-5 – 24-97   Reserved
Article II. Open Occupancy
   
24-98   Discrimination in sale, lease or rental
   
24-98.1   Intent
   
24-98.2   Definitions
   
24-98.3   Discriminatory housing practices
   
24-98.4   Discriminatory public accommodation practices
   
24-98.5   Exceptions
   
24-98.9   Penalties
   
24-98.10   Private actions for damages or injunctive relief
   
24-99   Discrimination in lending
   
24-100   Discrimination by real estate broker or salesperson
   
24-101   Discrimination in terms and privileges
   
24-102   Publication indicating preferences as to race, color and the like
   
24-103   False or substantially misleading statements
   
24-104   Inducing violations by threats, coercion and the like
   
24-105   Exemptions as to religious institutions and the like
   
24-106   Exemptions to certain dwellings
   
24-107   Permissible transactions
Article III. Residential Abandoned Property Program
   
24-108   Purpose and scope
   
24-109   Definitions
   
24-110   Inspection of residential property
   
24-111   Registration of abandoned residential property
   
24-112   Registrant duties
   
24-113   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Electricity, see
Ch. 16
   Fences, see
Ch. 17
   Housing Commission, see §§
2-17,
2-18
   Historic Districts, see §§
2-141 –
2-152
   Mechanical Code, see
Ch. 22
   Plumbing, see
Ch. 36
   Utilities, see
Ch. 46
   Zoning, see
Ch. 50
ARTICLE I. INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 24-1 ADOPTION; AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of MCLA § 117.3(k), the International
Property Maintenance Code and any future editions and amendments as published
by the International Code Council, Inc. and enforced by the City of Flint, is
hereby adopted by reference.
   (b)   As used in this chapter, PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE shall mean
whichever code is in effect pursuant to division (a).
   (c)   The following sections of the Property Maintenance Code leave the
jurisdictions to insert jurisdiction specific information. These sections are
hereby revised to insert the following information:
      Section 302.4. Insert: 8 inches
      Section 302.14. Insert: June 1 through October 15
      Section 602.3. Insert: October 1 through March 31
      Section 602.4. Insert: October 1 through March 31
   (d)   The Property Maintenance Code provides that each jurisdiction shall
set the amount of its own fees, fines, bonds, and other costs. Such amounts
shall be set forth in the City of Flint Master Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 2402, passed 8-20-1973; Ord. 2588, passed 2-28-1977; Ord. 2750, passed
11-19-1979; Ord. 2791, passed 4-13-1981; Ord. 2957, passed 6-24-1985; Ord.
3214, passed 7-13-1992; Ord. 3271, passed 4-17-1994; Ord. 3330, passed 5-13-
1996; Ord. 3352, passed 8-11-1997; Ord. 3356, passed 11-30-1997; Ord. 3446,
passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 3488, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3504, passed 11-11-2002;
Ord. 3531, passed 5-5-2004; Ord. 3708, passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 3821, passed 3-1-
2012)
§ 24-2 DANGEROUS BUILDING — CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING.
   As used in this section, DANGEROUS BUILDING means a building or structure or
portion thereof, which has one or more of the following defects or is in one or
more of the following conditions:
   (a)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of egress does not
conform to the approved Fire Code of the City of Flint, the Property
Maintenance Code, the Michigan Rehabilitation Code, or the Michigan Residential
Code, or Michigan Building Code of the City of Flint.
   (b)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood, or other cause in a manner that the structural strength or stability of
the building or structure is appreciably less than it was before the
catastrophe and does not meet the minimum requirements of this article or the
Property Maintenance Code as adopted by the City of Flint.
   (c)   A portion, member or appurtenance of the building or structure is
likely to fall, become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and injure persons
or damage property.
   (d)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an extent
that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure have
materially less resistance to winds than is required in the case of new
construction by this article or the Property Maintenance Code, the Michigan
Rehabilitation Code, the Michigan Residential Code, or Michigan Building Code
of the City of Flint.
   (e)   The building, structure, or any part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting the building, structure, or portion of the building or structure, or
for other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give way.
   (f)   The building, structure, or portion of the building or structure is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
   (g)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood or is
dilapidated or deteriorated and may become an attractive nuisance to children
who might play in the building or structure to their danger, may become a
harbor for vagrants or criminals, or may enable persons to resort to the
building or structure to commit a nuisance or unlawful act.
   (h)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling or
commercial purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty
construction or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or unfit for human
habitation, is in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease when
so determined by the County Health Officer, or Building Inspector, or is likely
to work injury to the health, safety or general welfare of people living in the
building or structure.
(Ord. 3110, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 3504, passed 11-11-2002; Ord. 3555, passed
6-9-2004; Ord. 3708, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 24-3 SAME — NOTICE; LIEN ON PROPERTY; OTHER REMEDIES.
   (a)   If a building or structure is found to be a dangerous building as
defined in this article, the Building and Safety Inspection Division shall
issue a notice that the building or structure is a dangerous building.
   (b)   The notice shall be served either by certified mail or personal
service on the owner, agent or lessee that is registered with the Building and
Safety Inspections Division. If an owner, agent or lessee is not registered,
the notice shall be served on each owner of or party in interest in the
building or structure in whose name the property appears on the last local tax
assessment records.
   (c)   (1)   The notice shall state what sections of the City Code have been
violated, how long the party has to bring the property up to code standards and
that the party has a right to appeal the findings of the Neighborhood
Enforcement Officer to the Building Code Board of Appeals.
      (2)   The notice shall contain a Building Code Board of Appeals form. The
party receiving the notice shall be informed that he or she has ten days from
receipt of the notice to file an appeal and pay appropriate fees.
      (3)   An appeal filed by mail must be post- marked, or if delivered by
person received, no later than ten days after notice of the Building Code
violations have been served.
      (4)   If the party receiving notice does not file an appeal within the
time allotted in subsection (3) above, the appeal is deemed waived.
   (d)   The cost of the boarding, making the building safe or maintaining the
exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure, shall be a lien against the real property and shall be reported to
the City Assessor, who shall assess the cost against the property on which the
building or structure is located.
   (e)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last local tax assessment records shall be notified by the Assessor of the
amount of the cost of the boarding, making the building safe, or maintaining
the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure by certified mail at the address shown on the records. If the owner
or party in interest fails to pay the cost within 30 days after mailing by the
Assessor of the notice of the amount of the cost, the Assessor shall add the
cost to the next tax roll of the City, and the cost shall be collected in the
same manner in all respects as provided under General Property Tax Act, being
Act 206 of the Public Acts of 1893, being MCLA §§ 211.1 through 211.57, and MSA
§§ 7.1 through 7.101, for the collection of taxes by the City of Flint.
   (f)   In addition to the remedies under subsections (d) and (e) above, the
City of Flint may bring an action against the owner of the building or
structure for the full cost of the boarding, making the building safe, or
maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the
building or structure. A judgment in an action pursuant to this subsection (f)
may be enforced against the assets of the owner other than the building or
structure.
(Ord. 3110, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 3708, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 24-4 ADOPTION — COMPREHENSIVE RENTAL INSPECTION CODE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of MCLA § 117.3(k), the 2003 International
Property Maintenance Code and any future additions and amendments as published
by the International Code Council, Inc. and enforced by the City of Flint,
together with City of Flint Administrative Amendments to the Property
Maintenance Code, and the Comprehensive Rental Inspection Code, as are adopted
by the City Council from time to time and filed in the office of the City
Clerk, are hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 3707, passed 5-12-2008)
§§ 24-5 – 24-97 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. OPEN OCCUPANCY
§ 24-98 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE, LEASE OR RENTAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or sublessee of real property, or
any agent or representative thereof, to refuse to sell, exchange, rent or lease
any housing accommodation or living quarters of any sort within the City,
because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, height, weight,
condition of pregnancy, marital status, physical or mental limitation, sexual
orientation, gender identity, gender expression or actual or perceived HIV
status.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
Cross-reference:
   Human Relations Commission, see §§
2-19 through
2-24
§ 24-98.1 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the City that no person be denied equal protection of
the laws; nor shall any person be denied the enjoyment of his or her civil
rights or be discriminated against because of race, color, religion, national
origin, sex, age, height, weight, condition of pregnancy, marital status,
physical or mental limitation, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
expression, or actual or perceived HIV status. As used herein, “perceived”
refers to the perception of the person who acts, and not to the perception of
the person for or against whom the action is taken.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit any affirmative
action laws passed by any level of government.
(Ord. 3820, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 24-98.2 DEFINITIONS.
   As used tn this section, the following words and phrases have the following
meanings:
   (a)   AGE. Chronological age.
   (b)   CONTRACTOR. A person who by contract furnishes services, materials or
supplies. CONTRACTOR does not include persons who are merely creditors or
debtors of the City, such as those holding the city’s notes or bonds or persons
whose notes, bonds or stock are held by the City.
   (c)   DISCRIMINATE. To make a decision, offer to make a decision or refrain
from making a decision based in whole or in part on the race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age, height, weight, condition of pregnancy, marital
status, physical or mental limitation, sexual orientation, gender identity,
gender expression, or actual or perceived HIV status.
      For the purposes of §
24-98.5 only, DISCRIMINATION BASED ON SEX includes sexual harassment, which
means unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal
or physical conduct or communication of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct or communication by an
individual is used as a factor in decisions affecting such individual’s, public
accommodations or housing.
      Discrimination based on actual or perceived physical or mental limitation
includes discrimination because of the use by an individual of adaptive devices
or aids.
      As used herein, “perceived” refers to the perception of the person who
acts and not to the perception of the person for or against whom the action is
taken.
   (d)   GENDER IDENTITY. A person’s actual or perceived gender, including a
person’s gender identity, self-image, appearance, expression, or behavior,
whether or not that gender identity, self-image, appearance, expression, or
behavior is different from that traditionally associated with the person’s sex
at birth as being either female or male.
   (e)   GENDER EXPRESSION. External manifestation of one’s gender identity,
usually expressed through “masculine,” or “feminine,” or gender variant
behavior, clothing, haircut, voice or body characteristics.
   (f)   HIV STATUS. A person who has, or has been diagnosed as having been
infected with, the human immunodeficiency virus, whether or not that person has
or has been diagnosed as having acquired immunodeficiency syndrome or acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome related complex.
   (g)   HOUSING FACILITY. Any dwelling unit or facility used for a person to
regularly sleep and keep personal belongings including, but not limited to, a
house, apartment, rooming house, housing cooperative, hotel, motel, tourist
home, retirement home or nursing home.
   (h)   MARITAL STATUS. The state of being married, unmarried, divorced or
widowed.
   (i)   MENTAL LIMITATION. A limitation of mental capabilities unrelated to
one’s ability to safely perform the work involved in jobs or positions
available to such person for hire or promotion; a limitation of mental
capabilities unrelated to one’s ability to acquire, rent and maintain property;
or a limitation of mental capabilities unrelated to one’s ability to utilize
and benefit from the goods, services, activities, privileges and accommodations
of a place of public accommodation. MENTAL LIMITATION includes, but is not
limited to, developmental disabilities, psychological, etc. MENTAL LIMITATION
does not include any condition caused by the current illegal use of a
controlled substance.
   (j)   MINORITY. A person who is black or African American, Native American,
or Alaskan Native, Hispanic or Latino, Asian, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific
Islander.
   (k)   PHYSICAL LIMITATION. A limitation of physical capabilities unrelated
to one’s ability to safely perform the work involved in jobs or positions
available to such person for hire or promotion; a limitation of physical
capabilities unrelated to one’s ability to acquire, rent and maintain property;
or a limitation of mental capabilities unrelated to one’s ability to utilize
and benefit from the goods, services, activities, privileges and accommodations
of a place of public accommodation. PHYSICAL LIMITATION includes, but is not
limited to, blindness or partial sightedness, deafness or hearing impairment,
muteness, partial or total absence of physical member, speech impairment and
motor impairment. PHYSICAL LIMITATION does not include any condition caused by
the current illegal use of a controlled substance.
   (l)   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. An educational, governmental, health,
day care, entertainment, cultural, recreational, refreshment, transportation,
financial institution, accommodation, business or other facility of any kind,
whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or accommodations are
extended, offered, sold or otherwise made available to the public, or which
receives financial support through the solicitation of the general public or
through governmental subsidy of any kind.
   (m)   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. Male or female homosexuality, heterosexuality or
bisexuality, by orientation or practice.
(Ord. 3820, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 24-98.3 DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES.
   (a)   No person shall discriminate in leasing, selling or otherwise making
available any housing facilities.
   (b)   No person shall discriminate in the terms, conditions, maintenance or
repair in providing any housing facility.
   (c)   No person shall refuse to lend money for the purchase or repair of any
real property or insure any real property solely because of the location in the
city of such real property.
   (d)   No person shall promote real estate transactions by representing that
changes are occurring or will occur in an area with respect to race, religion
or national origin.
   (e)   No person shall place a sign or other display on any real property
which indicates that the property is for sale or has been sold when it is not
for sale or has not recently been sold.
(Ord. 3820, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 24-98.4 DISCRIMINATORY PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION PRACTICES.
   No person shall discriminate in making available full and equal access to
all goods, services, activities, privileges and accommodations of any place of
public accommodation. No person shall prohibit a breastfeeding mother from, or
segregate a breastfeeding mother within, any public accommodation where she and
the child would otherwise be authorized to be.
(Ord. 3820, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 24-98.5 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, the following practices
shall not be violations of this section.
   (a)   For a religious organization or institution to restrict any of its
facilities of housing or accommodations which are operated as a direct part of
religious activities to persons of the denomination involved.
   (b)   For the owner of an owner-occupied 1-family or 2-family dwelling, or a
housing facility or public accommodation facility, respectively, devoted
entirely to the housing and accommodation of individuals of one sex, to
restrict occupancy and use on the basis of sex.
   (c)   To limit occupancy in a housing project to persons of low income, over
55 years of age or who are handicapped.
   (d)   To engage in a bona fide effort to establish an affirmative action
program to improve opportunities in employment for minorities and women that is
consistent with state and federal law.
   (e)   To discriminate based on a person’s age when such discrimination is
required by State, federal or local law.
   (f)   To refuse to enter into a contract with an unemancipated minor.
   (g)   To discriminate in any arrangement for the sharing of a dwelling unit.
(Ord. 3820, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 24-98.9 PENALTIES.
   (a)   A violation of any provision of this section is a civil infraction
punishable by a fine of not more than $500.00 plus all costs of the action. The
Court may issue and enforce any judgment, writ, or order necessary to enforce
this section. In addition to civil fines, this may include reinstatement.
   (b)   Each day upon which a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (c)   A violation proved to exist on a particular day shall be presumed to
exist on each subsequent day unless it is proved that the violation no longer
exists.
   (d)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to limit in any
way the remedies, legal or equitable, which are available to the City or any
other person for the prevention or correction of discrimination.
(Ord. 3820, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 24-98.10 PRIVATE ACTIONS FOR DAMAGES OR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (a)   An individual who is the victim of discriminatory action in violation
of this section may bring a civil action in the Court of jurisdiction, for
appropriate injunctive relief or damages or both against the person(s) who
acted in violation of this section.
   (b)   As used in subsection (a), “damages” means damages for injury or loss
caused by each violation of this section, including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 3820, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 24-99 DISCRIMINATION IN LENDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to discriminate in
the lending of money, guaranteeing of loans, accepting of mortgages or
otherwise making available funds for the purchase, acquisition, construction,
rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any housing accommodations or living
quarters of any sort within the City of Flint because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
§ 24-100 DISCRIMINATION BY REAL ESTATE BROKER OR SALESPERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any real estate broker or salesman to refuse to
make available for inspection or to refuse to accept offers to purchase, offers
to lease or any other proposed agreements with reference to the sale, exchange
or lease or real property because of race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
§ 24-101 DISCRIMINATION IN TERMS AND PRIVILEGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or sublessee of real property or
any other person concerned with transactions in real property to discriminate
because of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry with reference to
the terms, conditions or privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodations or living quarters of any sort within the City or in the
furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
§ 24-102 PUBLICATION INDICATING PREFERENCES AS TO RACE, COLOR AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to publish,
circulate, issue or display or cause to be published, circulated, issued or
displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement or sign of any kind
relating to the sale, rental or lease or real property within the City of Flint
indicating exclusion of or preference for any person or group of persons based
upon race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
§ 24-103 FALSE OR SUBSTANTIALLY MISLEADING STATEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to knowingly or
intentionally present false or substantially misleading statements to the
authorities charged with enforcement of this ordinance, or to sign a complaint
for violation of this ordinance based upon false or substantially misleading
information.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
§ 24-104 INDUCING VIOLATIONS BY THREATS, COERCION AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, by threats,
intimidation, coercion, extortion or conspiracy, to induce or attempt to induce
any person owning an interest in real property in the City of Flint, to violate
the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
§ 24-105 EXEMPTIONS AS TO RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS AND THE LIKE.
   This ordinance shall not be construed as barring any religious or
denominational institution or organization, or any charitable or educational
organization which is operated, supervised or controlled by or in connection
with a religious organization, from limiting admission to or giving preference
to persons of the same religion or denomination, or from making selections for
the purpose of promoting the religious principles for which it is established
or maintained.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
§ 24-106 EXEMPTIONS TO CERTAIN DWELLINGS.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall not apply to the owner of a dwelling
house, apartment building, or multiple housing facility of any sort in which
said owner or members of his immediate family resides, who rents or leases five
or less housing units in said dwelling house, apartment building or multiple
housing facility.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
§ 24-107 PERMISSIBLE TRANSACTIONS.
   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as prohibiting any person, firm
or corporation from imposing any and all conditions and requirements relative
to any of the transactions hereinabove described; provided such conditions do
not concern race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry; and provided,
such conditions are imposed uniformly, regardless of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry. Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed as
requiring an owner, lessee or sublessee of real property, or any person, firm
or corporation concerned in real estate transactions from exercising absolute
discretion in establishing the terms and conditions of the sale, exchange,
lease or rental of real property or in any transactions involving real
property, provided such terms and conditions do not concern race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry. Nothing in this ordinance shall be
construed as requiring an owner, lessee or sublessee of real property, to offer
said property to the public at large before selling or renting same.
(Ord. 2008, passed 10-30-1967)
ARTICLE III. RESIDENTIAL ABANDONED PROPERTY PROGRAM
§ 24-108 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this section is to establish an abandoned residential
property registration program and to regulate the maintenance of abandoned
residential properties by parties asserting a collateral or other legal or
equitable interest in the property. This section is intended to reduce and
prevent neighborhood blight, to ameliorate conditions that threaten the health,
safety and welfare of the public, to promote neighborhood stability and
residential owner occupancy by preserving the condition and appearance of
residential properties, and to maintain residential property values and
assessments. Nothing in this section shall be construed as waiving, relieving
or otherwise excusing an owner of residential property from compliance with all
applicable building codes and ordinances and the owner or owners shall at all
times remain responsible and liable therefor.
(Ord. 3756, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 24-109 DEFINITIONS.
   In this section:
   ABANDONED PROPERTY or ABANDONED PREMISES. A property that is vacant as the
result of the relinquishment of possession or control by a mortgager or the
mortgager’s assigns whether or not the mortgager or mortgager’s assigns have
relinquished equity and title. Property may be deemed abandoned when there is
evidence of conditions, taken separately or as a whole, that would lead a
reasonable person to conclude that the property was abandoned, including, but
not limited to evidence of overgrown or dead vegetation, accumulation of
newspapers, circulars, flyers or mail, past due utility notices, accumulation
of junk, litter, trash or debris, absence of window treatments such as blinds,
curtains or shutters, absence of furnishings and personal items, and statements
by neighbors, delivery agents or similarly situated persons that the property
is vacant.
   ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE. A building that is accessible through a compromised
door, wall, window or similar structure and which is unsecured in a manner that
allows access to interior space by unauthorized persons.
   AGENT. A person, firm or other entity that, by agreement for payment of
services, is responsible to a bank, lender, other financial institution or
individual, for securing, maintaining, foreclosing upon or selling any
residential property as the result of loan default or mortgage foreclosure
proceedings. In this section, AGENT does not include a servicing company.
Except, however, an attorney shall not be deemed to be an AGENT if that
attorney is retained solely to represent a bank, lender or other financial
institution in connection with a foreclosure proceeding in a Court of competent
jurisdiction.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any individual, firm, corporation or entity other
than a lender or duly constituted bank that asserts a collateral interest in
residential real property as the result of an assignment, sale or transfer of a
mortgage or similar instrument.
   FORECLOSURE. Judicial and non-judicial foreclosure.
   MORTGAGE. A written instrument creating a lien on real property whereby the
mortgager retains the interest that the mortgager had at the time of mortgage
until that interest is divested by some later act.
   OCCUPIED PROPERTY or OCCUPIED PREMISES. A premises on which any person over
one year of age, including an owner or operator, lives, sleeps, cooks or
otherwise maintains actual possession.
   SERVICING COMPANY. An individual, firm or entity that, as a regular part of
its business, provides services to the owner or holder of one or more mortgage
liens which services may include collection of payments, creation and
administration of escrow and insurance accounts, assessment of late-payment
charges, managing loss mitigation, and securing and managing foreclosed
properties on behalf of the holder of a mortgage lien or the holder’s attorney
or agent.
   VACANT PREMISES. A building that is not lawfully occupied.
(Ord. 3756, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 24-110 INSPECTION OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   Initial inspection. Whenever a bank, lender or other financial
institution shall directly, or through an agent or servicing company, initiate
foreclosure proceedings upon residential real property, the bank, lender or
other financial institution, either directly or through its agent or servicing
company, shall cause a physical inspection to be made of the property not later
than thirty (30) days from the date of notice and in no event later than thirty
(30) days after the filing of foreclosure proceedings. One or more photographs
shall be taken of the residential property accurately portraying the condition
of the exterior premises. Photographs shall be dated and preserved.
   (b)   Periodic inspections. Any bank, lender or financial institution, or
its agent or servicing company, shall perform a re-inspection of a residential
premises subject to foreclosure proceedings at least once every thirty (30)
days following the initial inspection until such time as the property is no
longer in default as a result of agreement with the owner, or is sold at a
sheriff’s sale or is otherwise lawfully conveyed to a new owner. One or more
photographs shall be taken at each re-inspection and shall be dated and
preserved in the same manner as is required upon initial inspection.
(Ord. 3756, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 24-111 REGISTRATION OF ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (a)   If, upon inspection of residential property required by §
24-110, it should be determined that the property is abandoned, the bank,
lender, other financial institution or its responsible agent or servicing
company shall register the property in the name of the lien holder with the
appropriate City official (“appropriate official”) on a form prescribed by the
appropriate official that includes, but is not limited to, information
identifying the location of the property, the last known owner or owners of the
property, the date foreclosure proceedings were commenced and the docket number
of the foreclosure action, a description of the external condition of the
property and whether there is an accessible structure on the property.
Registration information shall identify the agent or servicing company, if any,
that is authorized by the lien holder to enter upon the property and to conduct
repairs or maintenance as required in §
24-112(a).
   (b)   Registration of abandoned property shall be made within five (5)
working days of inspection. The fee for registration of abandoned residential
property shall be the same fee charged for rental registration.
   (c)   The registration will be dissolved and considered void upon receipt by
the appropriate official of written evidence of a sale in foreclosure,
redemption of the property by the lien holder or other transfer of the lien
holder’s interest.
(Ord. 3756, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 24-112 REGISTRANT DUTIES.
   (a)   The property maintenance duties of a registrant are limited to the
following:
      (1)   Assuring that there are no accessible structures on the premises.
      (2)   Assuring that there are no conditions upon the property presenting
an immediate risk to health and safety of the public. This duty includes
removing or abating fire hazards, removing or containing potentially toxic
materials and explosives, securing the perimeters of swimming pools, ponds or
other bodies of water, maintaining public walkways and thoroughfares free from
ice, snow, mud and other debris and tripping hazards, and abating overgrown
weeds and trash.
   (b)   A registrant shall include a statement in the registration form
identifying any action taken or planned to be taken to comply with the
requirements of subsection (a). From and after registration of the abandoned
residential property, or from and after the time that registration is required
to be made, and until the abandoned residential property has been sold at a
sheriff’s foreclosure sale or has otherwise been legally conveyed to a new
owner, the appropriate official may make a finding that the conditions of the
residential premises constitute an immediate threat to the health, safety and
welfare of the public and, upon such finding, may issue a written order to the
registrant to abate the condition. If the registrant, or party with a duty to
register, fails to comply with the order of the appropriate official within ten
days, the registrant, or party with a duty to register, shall be held liable
and punished in the same manner and to the same extent as the owner of the
property could be punished.
   (c)   The minimum requirements of a registrant, or party with a duty to
register, for preservation and protection of residential premises, absent a
specific order of the appropriate official to abate a condition of the
premises, shall be consistent with the rules, regulations and other
requirements published by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) of the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for the preservation
and protection of single-family residential properties secured by FHA loans as
those requirements may be amended by FHA mortgagee letters or otherwise, and as
applied by the FHA to the State of Michigan including guidelines related to
winterization and heating systems. These requirements are incorporated by
reference. Under these guidelines, debris removal shall be deemed to include
snow and ice removal and the abatement of overgrown weeds and other plant
growths. After notice and an opportunity to be heard, the appropriate official
may require a registrant, or party with a duty to register, to repay the
Department the reasonable costs incurred by the Department related to abatement
of conditions that are subject to FHA guidelines identified in this subsection
or which are subject to an order under subsection (b) and threaten the health,
welfare and safety of the public.
   (d)   A registrant shall maintain written records, including photographs, of
any re-inspection required by §
24-110(b) that identifies any change in condition of the abandoned real
property requiring correction and identifying actions taken or planned to
assure compliance. Written records of re-inspection shall be made available to
the appropriate official or appropriate official’s designee upon request.
   (e)   A registrant, or registrant’s agent or servicing company, shall
provide notice to the appropriate official, in a manner to be prescribed by the
appropriate official, within fifteen (15) working days, of any agreement
executed by the lawful owner with the party or parties asserting a mortgage
lien interest curing or otherwise forgiving default of the mortgage lien, or
within 15 days of a sheriff’s sale in foreclosure or other sale or lawful
conveyance of the abandoned residential property, and declaring that registrant
is no longer responsible for inspection of the registered property or for
securing or maintaining the property. Upon receipt of the notice required in
this paragraph, the appropriate official shall dissolve the registration.
(Ord. 3756, passed 7-13-2009)
§ 24-113 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Failure to inspect. Any person, firm, bank, lender, financial
institution or an agent or servicing company that fails its duty to inspect or
re-inspect residential property under §
24-110 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250.00 nor more than
$1,000.00, together with the cost of the action, and in default of payment
thereof the City may obtain a lien on the property.
   (b)   Failure to register. Any person, firm, bank, lender, financial
institution or an agent or servicing company that fails its duty to register
abandoned residential property under §
24-111 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500.00 nor more than
$2,000.00, together with the cost of the action, and in default of payment
thereof the City may obtain a lien on the property.
   (c)   Failure to secure and maintain. Any person, firm, bank, lender,
financial institution or an agent or servicing company having a duty to
register abandoned residential property that fails its duty to secure and
maintain the property under §
24-112(a) and (b) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $350.00 nor more
than $1,500.00, together with the cost of the action, and in default of payment
thereof the City may obtain a lien on the property.
   (d)   Failure to maintain records or provide written notice. Any person,
firm, bank, lender, financial institution or responsible agent or servicing
company that fails to maintain records required in §
24-112(d) or to provide the notices required in §
24-112(e) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than
$500.00, together with the cost of the action, and in default of payment
thereof the City may obtain a lien on the property.
(Ord. 3756, passed 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 25: RESERVED
CHAPTER 26: LICENSING FEES AND OTHER CHARGES
Section
   
26-1   Licensing fees generally
   
26-1.1   Additional license fee when special meeting of Council required
   
26-1.3   Revocation of license for possession of stolen property
   
26-2   Licenses, registration and fees
   
26-3   Permits — generally
   
26-4   Same — building, electrical, plumbing and the like
   
26-5   Same — sidewalk construction, excavation and the like
Cross-reference:
   Enforcement of licensing provisions, see §
18-2
   Licensing of:
      Advertising and signs, see §§
3-17 –
3-21
      Ambulance driver, see §§
7-9 –
7-12
      Ambulance license, see §§
7-1 –
7-5
      Auctioneer, see §§
10-5,
10-6
      Automatic music machines, see §§
12-2 –
12-6
      Billiard halls, poolrooms and bowling alleys, see §§
8-5 –
8-12
      Building contractors, see §§
12-11 –
12-15
      Bump shops, see §§
12-19 –
12-23
      Businesses leasing motorcycles, see §§
12-71 –
12-75
      Car washes, see §§
12-125 –
12-128
      Card tables, see §§
8-15 –
8-22
      Christmas tree sales, see §§
12-84,
12-85
      Cigarette vending machines and mechanical amusement devices and operators
thereof, see §§
12-25 –
12-32
      Coal and coke sales, see §§
12-91 –
12-93
      Coin-operated laundry and dry cleaning facilities, see §§
12-39 –
12-41
      Cutting, removing or trimming trees, see §§
12-43,
12-44
      Educational museum/theme park, see §§
12-115 –
12-117
      Filling stations, see §§
12-143,
12-144
      Freight carriers, see §§
12-198 –
12-200
      Gasoline and motor fuel sales, see §§
49-27,
49-28
      Hotels and rooming houses, see §§
12-150,
12-151
      Ice cream sales and the like from motor vehicles, see §§
12-186 –
12-190
      Initial merchants, see §§
12-48,
12-49,
12-49.2,
12-50 –
12-52
      Junk dealers, secondhand dealers, pawnbrokers and the like, see §§
12-56 –
12-58
      Oil or chemical substances applied to streets, see §§
42-27 –
42-31
      Open parking stations, see §§
12-155 –
12-159
      Public dance halls, see §§
8-38,
8-39
      Public exhibitions, shows and the like, see §§
8-45 –
8-48
      Refuse dumping grounds, see §§
39-32 –
39-36
      Shooting galleries and firing ranges, see §§
8-24 –
8-29
      Sidewalk builder, see §
42-62
      Snow removal vehicles, see §§
42-69 –
42-73
      Solicitors, canvassers and peddlers, see §§
12-172 –
12-178
      Taxicabs, see §§
12-203 –
12-236
      Vehicles used in collection of junk, see §§
12-59,
12-60
      Wrecker and towing service, see §§
12-103 –
12-105
   Penalty for failure to renew license, see §
18-3
   Vehicle operator’s license, see §§
28-184 –
28-193
§ 26-1 LICENSING FEES GENERALLY.
   The various businesses, trades or occupations enumerated in Appendix A shall
pay a license fee as shall be established from time to time by resolution of
the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A
of the City Code.
(Ord. 2656, passed 8-14-1978; Ord. 2941, passed 2-11-1985; Ord. 2977, passed 1-
27-1986; Ord. 3020, passed 12-8-1986; Ord. 3068, passed 7-25-1988; Ord. 3071,
passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 3072, passed 9-15-1988; Ord. 3241, passed 7-26-1993;
Ord. 3408, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 26-1.1 ADDITIONAL LICENSE FEE WHEN SPECIAL MEETING OF COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   As a condition of calling and convening a special City Council meeting for
the purpose of approving any application for any license issued by the City, an
additional fee may be imposed by the City Council for such license. The
decision whether to impose any such additional fee shall be within the
discretion of the Council, after considering such factors as the circumstances
requiring a special meeting, the purpose of the license, the experience of the
City in issuing prior licenses to the applicant in question, and the like.
   Such additional fee shall not exceed 100% of the normal licensing fee for
such license.
(Ord. 2886, passed 9-26-1983)
§ 26-1.3 REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR POSSESSION OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (a)   The City Council may revoke a license if Council finds that the
licensee has been in possession of stolen goods. Before any revocation, the
licensee shall be given reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard in
accordance with the rules for hearings previously adopted by the Council.
   (b)   If a licensee has been found guilty in a court of law the license
issued to such entity shall be deemed to be revoked ipso facto and such entity
shall not be permitted to carry on such business within the City for a period
of one year after such conviction.
(Ord. 3805, passed 9-26-2011)
§ 26-2 LICENSES, REGISTRATION AND FEES.
   (a)   Licensed by State of Michigan. All persons, not included in subsection
(b) of this section, engaged in trades and professions licensed by the State of
Michigan must register such license with the Development Division (formerly the
Building and Safety Inspection Office) before performing any work in the City
and pay a fee hereby specified to the Development Division for the license to
be registered.
   (b)   Licensed by the City of Flint.
      (1)   All sewer and drain layers, sign hangers, and commercial builders,
as defined by the Code of the City of Flint, seeking to obtain or renew a
license must be approved and licensed by the City Clerk and register that
license with the Development Division (formerly the Building and Safety
Inspection Office) before performing any work within the City, and pay a fee
hereby specified to the City Clerk for the license to be obtained or renewed.
      (2)   All licenses described in §
26-2 of the Code of the City of Flint shall be effective for one year. All
sewer and drain layers licenses will be effective through December 31 of the
year that the license is renewed. All sign hangers and commercial builders
licenses will be effective through April 30 of the year that the license is
renewed.
   (c)   Fees. The registration fee and license fee shall be established from
time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk,
and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. The registration and the license
shall be effective until the expiration of the license.
(Ord. 2462, passed 10-23-1974; Ord. 2493, passed 5-12-1975; Ord. 2747, passed
11-19-1979; Ord. 2786, passed 12-8-1980; Ord. 2850, passed 8-30-1982; Ord.
3044, passed 8-24-1987; Ord. 3045, passed 9-28-1987; Ord. 3071, passed 9-12-
1988; Ord. 3408, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3691, passed 5-14-2007)
§ 26-3 PERMITS — GENERALLY.
   The permit fees for the activities enumerated in Appendix A shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. Unless
otherwise specified, the fee shall be on an annual basis.
(Ord. 3071, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 3408, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 26-4 SAME — BUILDING, ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   Basic Building Code (Article 1, Section 114.0). The schedule of fees
to be charged for permits, administration activities and inspections required
by the Basic Building Code of the City of Flint shall be established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
   (b)   Property Maintenance Code. Inspection fees for compliance with the
BOCA Basic Property Maintenance Code shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of the City Code.
   (c)   Basic Building Code (Article 1, Section 116.0).  At the time of filing
applications for permits to disconnect the sanitary sewer service line and
water service line the owner or his agent shall deposit with the Department of
Public Works certain fees as shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of the City Code.
      Should the site be in an area where water mains and/or sewer lines
serving the structures are to be abandoned, the Department of Public Works
shall furnish the owner or his or her agent a certificate to this effect, and
no deposit shall be required. Provided, further that the Department of Public
Works is authorized to enter into agreements with the Michigan State Highway
Department and other governmental agencies relative to the sealing of water and
sewer service lines. The governmental agency razing or supervising razing of
structures shall reimburse the City of Flint for all costs incurred in sealing
the water and sewer service lines.
      In the event the owner or his agent shall do all work necessary to expose
the water service line and/or sanitary service line, notify the Department of
Public Works to seal the service lines, and satisfactorily complete the
backfilling of the excavations, a refund shall be made by the Department of
Public Works of 75% of the sum deposited. In the event the owner or his agent
fails to do all work necessary to expose the service lines and backfill the
excavation following the sealing of the services lines by the Department of
Public Works, a sum sufficient to cover the cost of labor, material or
equipment incurred by the Department of Public Works to perform the work shall
be deducted from the sum deposited and any unused portion of the fee shall be
returned to the person making such deposit.
   (d)   Basic Mechanical Code (Section M-114.3). The schedule of fees to be
charged for permits and inspections required by the BOCA Basic National
Mechanical Code currently administered by the City of Flint, shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
      (1)   Overtime inspections: At times other than regular working hours,
per existing policy.
      (2)   Transfer fee: Transfer of permit fees from a cancelled permit to a
new permit is subject to current policy. The minimum fee shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City
Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
      (3)   For equipment that has been inspected but not included in the
permit issued, the combination rates may be applied to a supplemental permit.
The minimum fee shall be established by resolution of the City Council, kept on
file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
      (4)   Refund and transfer of fees: Fees shall be refunded and
transferred, to the extent of services not already provided on the permit, by
the City. A minimum charge shall be made to cover administrative costs on each
permit which is refunded or transferred. Said minimum charge shall be
established by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk,
and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. Permits where partial work or
inspections have been performed shall have the refund reduced by actual
charges, figured at an hourly rate which shall be established by resolution of
the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A
of the City Code.
      (5)   Finalization of permits: Permit holders shall be responsible for
timely requests for inspection and the arranging for entrance of inspectors to
the job sites, including final inspection. Permit work shall not be considered
complete, nor acceptance certificates issued, until final inspection and
acceptance. If permit holders fail to arrange for final inspection, the
inspector shall close out the permit(s) with appropriate notations after two
(2) unsuccessful attempts to make final inspection.
      (6)   If work is started prior to obtaining a permit, the City may:
         a.   Double the fee.
         b.   Stop the work until a permit is obtained.
         c.   Issue an appearance ticket requiring the contractor or owner to
appear in District Court, where a fine and/or jail sentence may be imposed.
         d.   Refer the information to the City, County or State Attorney’s
Office for appropriate action.
         e.   Any combination or all of the above.
   (e)   BOCA Basic National Plumbing Code. The schedule of fees to be charged
for permits and inspections required by the BOCA Basic National Plumbing Code
currently administered by the City of Flint, shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
      (1)   Finalization of permits: Permit holders shall be responsible for
timely requests for inspection and the arranging for entrance of inspectors to
the job sites, including final inspection. Permit work shall not be considered
complete, nor acceptance certificates issued until final inspection and
acceptance. If permit holders fail to arrange for final inspection, the
inspector shall close out the permit(s) with appropriate notations after two
(2) unsuccessful attempts to make final inspection.
      (2)   If work is started prior to obtaining a permit, the City may:
         a.   Double the fee.
         b.   Stop the work until a permit is obtained.
         c.   Issue an appearance ticket requiring the contractor or owner to
appear in District Court, where a fine and/or jail sentence may be imposed.
         d.   Refer the information to the City, County or State Attorney’s
Office for appropriate action.
         e.   Any combination or all of the above.
   (f)   Flint Electrical Code. The schedule of fees to be charged for permits
and inspections required by the electrical code currently administered by the
City of Flint shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the
City Code.
      (1)   Finalization of permits: Permit holders shall be responsible for
timely requests for inspection and the arranging for entrance of inspectors to
the job sites, including final inspection. Permit work shall not be considered
complete, nor acceptance certificates issued until final inspection and
acceptance. If permit holders fail to arrange for final inspection, the
inspector shall close out the permit(s) with appropriate notations after two
(2) unsuccessful attempts to make final inspection.
      (2)   If work is started prior to obtaining a permit, the City may:
         a.   Double the fee.
         b.   Stop the work until a permit is obtained.
         c.   Issue an appearance ticket requiring the contractor or owner to
appear in district court, where a fine and/or jail sentence may be imposed.
         d.   Refer the information to the City, County or State Attorney’s
Office for appropriate action.
         e.   Any combination or all of the above.
(Ord. 2461, passed 10-23-1974; Ord. 2497, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 2747, passed
11-19-1979; Ord. 2786, passed 12-8-1980; Ord. 2828, passed 3-22-1982; Ord.
2850, passed 8-30-1982; Ord. 3071, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 3079, passed 10-24-
1988; Ord. 3408, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 26-5 SAME — SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION, EXCAVATION AND THE LIKE.
   The permit fees for the activities enumerated in this section shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. Such fees must
be paid to the Department of Public Works in advance of the work being
performed.
(Ord. 3071, passed 9-12-1988; Ord. 3408, passed 2-8-1999)
CHAPTER 27: RESERVED
CHAPTER 28: MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Section
Article I. In General
   
28-1   Definitions
   
28-1.1   Uniform Traffic Code adopted
   
28-1.2   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted
   
28-1.3   Motor carriers
   
28-2   Purpose; compliance
   
28-2.1   Duties and authority of Traffic Engineer generally; experimental
regulations
   
28-2.2   Procedure for establishing traffic regulations
   
28-3   Applicability to bicycles, animal- drawn vehicles and the like
   
28-4   Applicability to hand and foot propelled carts; carts to be removed at
request of police
   
28-5   Applicability to public employees
   
28-6   Applicability to authorized emergency vehicles
   
28-7   Enforcement; directing traffic in emergency
   
28-7.1   Authority to persons other than police officers to issue parking
violation notices
   
28-8   Obedience to police officers
   
28-9   Use of vehicles for advertising prohibited
   
28-10   Right-of-way for emergency vehicles; following or parking near fire
apparatus
   
28-11   Reserved
   
28-12   Obstructions to driver’s vision; windshield wipers and washers
   
28-13   Use of seat belts in motor vehicles — adoption of State law
   
28-14   Limitation on number of persons occupying front seat; sitting on
driver’s lap prohibited
   
28-15   Use of hand-held cellular phones while driving prohibited
   
28-16   Towing limitations — passenger vehicles
   
28-17   Same — other vehicles
   
28-18   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles
   
28-19   Hitching to or climbing on vehicle
   
28-20   Riders on bicycles, roller skates and the like hitching onto motor
vehicles
   
28-21   Use of roller skates, coasters and the like; penalty
   
28-22   Throwing objects upon highway; removal of glass and the like when
removing damaged vehicle
   
28-23   Passengers to ride inside vehicle; exception
   
28-24   Crossing fire hose
   
28-25   Vehicle obstructing street
   
28-26   Removal of disabled or stalled vehicles
   
28-27   One-way streets
   
28-28   Adoption of State law covering driving while intoxicated; local
amendments
   
28-28.1   Detention of driver; vehicle immobilization; temporary vehicle
registration plate (MCLA § 257.904c)
   28-28.2 – 28-28.4   Reserved
   
28-28.5   Expenses of emergency response to OUIL-OWI incident; duty to pay of
person convicted
   
28-28.6   Adoption of State law covering possession of alcohol in passenger
compartment of a motor vehicle
   
28-28.7   Operation of motor vehicle by persons under 21 years of age with any
bodily alcohol content prohibited
   
28-29   Obstructing the view of a motor coach driver
   
28-30   Proof of insurance
   
28-30.1   Maintenance of proper insurance or security for payment of benefits
   
28-30.2   Penalty for violation of § 28-30.1
   
28-30.3   Reports involving law enforcement information network
   
28-31   Abandoned vehicle — defined
   
28-32   Same — action by police
   
28-33   Same — procedure upon taking vehicle into custody
   
28-34   Same — hearing; redemption of vehicle
   
28-35   Same — disposition of unredeemed vehicle at public sale
   
28-36   Registered and unregistered abandoned scrap vehicles; police
procedures; notice; hearing; release
   
28-37   Removal of vehicles by other than registered owner or police agency
   
28-38   Removal of vehicles by Chief of Police or police agency
   28-39 – 28-42   Reserved
Article II. Operation of Vehicles
   
28-43   Operation of motor vehicle by person under 14 prohibited
   
28-44   Halting vehicle
   
28-45   Driving on sidewalks
   
28-46   Driving on streets closed for repair and the like
   
28-47   Driving in zone of quiet
   
28-48   Driving on divided or limited access highways
   
28-49   Driving vehicles injurious to streets prohibited
   
28-50   Driving on roadway laned for traffic
   
28-51   Reckless driving
   
28-52   Careless driving
   
28-53   Vehicles to be driven on right half of roadway; exceptions
   
28-54   Driving through safety zones
   
28-55   Slow or heavy vehicles to keep to right in single file
   
28-56   Passing — vehicles proceeding in opposite directions
   
28-57   Same — on left procedure
   
28-58   Same — same — limitations
   
28-59   Same — on right
   
28-60   Funeral processions
   
28-61   Entering intersections
   
28-62   Right-of-way at intersection
   
28-63   Restrictions on backing
   
28-64   Vehicle moving from curb to yield to other vehicles
   
28-65   Drag racing
   
28-65.1   Movement and parking of motor vehicle on airport property
Article III. Truck Routes and Bridge Weight Limitations
   
28-66   Certain vehicles limited to truck routes; routes on file
   
28-67   Designating temporary truck routes
   
28-68   Leaving truck routes to make deliveries
   
28-69   Duty of operator to permit weighing of vehicle; bridge weights on file
Article IV. Speed Regulations
   
28-70   Careful and prudent speed; speed limits on file
   
28-71   Maximum speed limit generally; exceptions
   
28-72   Duty to lower speed under certain circumstances
   
28-72.1   Specifications to be included in complaints of violations
   
28-73   Effect upon burden of proof in civil actions
Article V. Turning Movements
   
28-74   Obedience to turn signs, buttons and the like; prohibited turns on file
   
28-75   Left turns generally
   
28-76   Turns at intersection generally
   
28-77   U-turns
Article VI. Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
28-78   Establishment of loading zones
   
28-79   Use of loading zones
   
28-80   Establishment of taxicab zones
   
28-81   Establishment of bus zones
   
28-82   Use of bus and taxicab zones
   
28-83   Obstructing crosswalks
   
28-84   Stop at railroad crossing — required when stop sign in place
   
28-85   Same — required when signals indicate approach of train
   
28-85.1   Overtaking or meeting stopped school bus displaying flashing lights
   
28-86   Parking over 24 hours on any street prohibited
   
28-87   Parking so as to leave less than 16 feet of roadway available for
traffic prohibited; exception
   
28-88   Parallel parking
   
28-89   Standing in front of entrance or exit to theaters, churches and the
like
   
28-90   Stopping or parking at or near hazardous or congested places
   
28-91   Moving vehicles from curb under emergency conditions on police orders
   
28-92   Applicability of no-parking regulations to streets having recessed
sides
   
28-93   Parking on parkway
   
28-93.1   Police vehicle zones — establishment; purpose
   
28-93.2   Same — use by other than marked police vehicle prohibited
   
28-93.3   Parking on certain property restricted to City employees
   
28-94   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in certain places; parking
zones on file
   
28-94.1   Penalty for violation of § 28-94(a)(4)
   
28-95   Reserved
   
28-96   Exemption of certain persons
   
28-97   Parking or standing for certain purposes prohibited
   
28-98   Parking and operation on Board of Education property
   
28-98.1   Operation and parking at Mott Community College
   
28-98.2   Operation, stopping, standing and parking in parking areas of
shopping center
   
28-99   Signals on starting, stopping or turning; equipment of certain
commercial vehicles
   
28-100   Emerging from alleys, driveways and the like
   
28-101   Entering through highways; designated through streets on file
   
28-102   Unattended vehicles; parking on grade
   
28-103   Parking on private property
   
28-104   Parking in drive-in restaurant
   
28-105   Prima facie responsibility of owner for parking violations
Article VII. Parking Meters
   
28-106   Installation; locations on file
   
28-107   Same — responsibility for installation; maintenance, operations,
enforcement and the like
   
28-108   Location generally; meter signal
   
28-109   Marking of parking spaces; parking across space markings prohibited
   
28-110   Loading zones
   
28-110.1   Downtown Development Authority (DDA) District; enforcement; metering
in designated areas; special considerations
   
28-111   Determination of length of parking time; violations
   
28-112   Parking beyond time limit
   
28-113   Citation of violators
   
28-114   Vehicle parked in violation deemed nuisance; impoundment; collection
of proceeds
   
28-115   Procedure in prosecuting violators
   
28-115.1   Impoundment/immobilization devices
   
28-115.2   Same — interference; removal of device
   
28-116   Use of slugs
   
28-117   Defacing, opening and the like
   
28-118   Collection of coins from the meters
   
28-119   Use of meter receipts
Article VIII. Traffic-Control Devices
   
28-120   Use of devices authorized
   
28-121   Injuring or removal of devices
   
28-122   Obedience to devices
   
28-123   Directing of traffic; obedience to devices, signal and the like of
police officer
   
28-124   Display of unauthorized signs, signals and the like
   
28-125   Control signals
   
28-126   Pedestrian-control signals
   
28-127   Flashing signals
Article IX. Equipment on Vehicles
   
28-128   Operation of unsafe or improperly equipped vehicle; inspection
   
28-129   Brakes
   
28-130   Width of bumpers and the like
   
28-131   Vehicle and trailer couplings
   
28-132   Horn; sirens, whistles and the like; muffler cut-outs
   
28-133   Mud flaps or other similar devices
   
28-134   Lights on parked vehicles
   
28-135   Lighting equipment required on motor vehicles
   
28-136   Construction, arrangement and use of head lamps and auxiliary lamps
   
28-137   Rear lamps
   
28-138   Illumination of license plate
   
28-139   Spot lamps and auxiliary driving lamps
   
28-140   Signal lamps and devices
   
28-141   Reflective devices for slow-moving vehicles
   
28-142   Mirrors
   
28-142.1   Windshield
   
28-143   Mechanical or electrical turn signals required on certain vehicles
   
28-144   Metal or plastic track, studded tires and the like
   
28-145   Regrooved or recut tires
   
28-146   Emission of excessive smoke or noise
   
28-147   Vehicles to be constructed so contents will not spill or leak
   
28-148   Covering of trucks hauling trash, debris and the like
Article X. Size and Weight of Vehicles
   
28-149   Maximum length, widths and heights
   
28-150   Overload of vehicles
   
28-151   Loads extending beyond sides of vehicles; flags and lights on loads
extending beyond rear of vehicle
Article XI. Impoundment of Vehicles
   
28-152   When authorized; reports; redemption; payment of costs; disposition of
unclaimed vehicles
Article XII. Pedestrians
   
28-153   Safety zones
   
28-154   Use of white canes by other than blind persons
   
28-155   Vehicles to yield to persons carrying white canes
   
28-156   Right-of-way at crosswalks not controlled by signals
   
28-157   Right-of-way when crossing at other than crosswalk
   
28-158   Pedestrians soliciting rides prohibited
Article XIII. Accidents
   
28-159   Duty of driver
   
28-160   Report of certain accidents to police by driver or occupant
   
28-161   Duty to stop and render aid
   
28-162   Report of damage to unattended vehicle or property to owners and
police
   
28-163   Reports of damage by garagemen
Article XIV. Motorcycles, Bicycles and the Like
Division 1. Bicycles
   
28-164   “Bicycle” defined
   
28-165   Compliance
   
28-166   Registration; transfer of ownership
   
28-166.1   Bicycles to be permanently identified upon sale
   
28-167   Lights and reflectors required
   
28-168   Warning devices required; use of sirens or whistles prohibited
   
28-169   Brakes required
   
28-170   Carrying packages
   
28-171   Riding on sidewalks prohibited; exception
   
28-172   To be ridden with hands on handlebars; more than one person riding
prohibited; exception
   
28-173   Impoundment of abandoned or stolen bicycles
   
28-174   Riding on permanent seats
Division 2. Motorcycles and Motor-Driven Cycles
   
28-175   Carrying excess number of persons
   
28-176   Reserved
   
28-177   To be driven near right side of roadway; care to be exercised in
passing
   
28-178   Method of passing
   
28-179   Riding abreast
   
28-180   Lights required
   
28-181   Riding on sidewalks
   
28-182   Carrying packages
   
28-183   Crash helmets required for operators and passengers
Article XV. Licenses
   
28-184   Operator’s license — required by persons over 14
   
28-185   Same — to be in possession; adult licensed driver to accompany holder
of instruction permit
   
28-186   Same — change of address to be indicated
   
28-187   Adoption of State law covering operator’s or chauffeur’s license or
registration; suspension, revocation or denial; penalty for operation of
vehicle; vehicle immobilization
   
28-188   Same — driving in violation of license restrictions prohibited
   
28-189   Same — possession of fictitious or revoked license
   
28-190   Same — lending license
   
28-191   Same — use of another person’s license
   
28-192   Reserved
   
28-193   Registration certificate
   
28-194   License plates required; plates to be kept clean and unobstructed
Article XVI. Snowmobiles
   
28-195   Definitions
   
28-196   Operation of unregistered snowmobiles
   
28-197   Display of registration number
   
28-198   Operation on street or highway
   
28-199   Equipment required
   
28-200   Restrictions on operation
   
28-201   Report of accidents
   
28-202   Use on property of City Recreation and Park Board
   
28-203   Authorizing or permitting violations
   
28-204   Enforcement procedure
Article XVII. Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicles
   
28-205   Definitions
   
28-206   On street
   
28-207   On private property; on business premises; in storage
   
28-208   Vehicle with expired license plate
   
28-209   Enforcement
Article XVIII. Commercial Vehicles
   
28-210   Reserved
   
28-211   Definitions
   
28-212   Regulation of parking and storage
   
28-213   Responsibility
   
28-214   Variance
   
28-215   Violation
   
28-216   Severability
   
28-217   Enforcement
Article XIX. Neighborhood Traffic Calming Procedures
   
28-218   Title
   
28-219   Purpose
   
28-220   Definitions
   
28-221   Responsibilities of the Traffic Calming Committee
   
28-222   Initiation of traffic calming study
   
28-223   Data collection for the traffic calming study
   
28-224   Traffic calming priority and design criteria
   
28-225   Public hearing required
   
28-226   Installation of traffic calming devices
   
28-227   Evaluation, modification, removal
Cross-reference:
   Ambulances, see
Ch. 7
   Bump shops, see §§
12-18 –
12-23
   Disobeying traffic-control orders:
      Civil defense test or emergency, see §
14-3
      Fire or disaster, see §
14-2
   Driving across fire hoses prohibited, see §
19-28
   Ice cream sales and the like from motor vehicles, see §§
12-186 –
12-190
   Motor vehicle regulations at airport, see §§
5-21 –
5-29
   Parks, operation of vehicles in, see §
33-15
   Railroads blocking traffic, see §
38-1
   Smoking in buses, see §
31-49
   Snow removal vehicles, see §§
42-69 –
42-76
   Taxicabs and vehicles for hire, see §§
12-203 –
12-236
   Vehicles:
      Coal and coke delivery, see §
12-95
      For hire at airport, see §
5-11
      Garbage hauling, see §
30-5
      Junk collection, see §
12-59
   Wreckers and towing service, see §§
12-101 –
12-113
Statutory reference:
   State Vehicle Code, see MSA §§ 9.1801 et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 28-1 DEFINITIONS.
   ALLEY. Any minor thoroughfare, opened to public use, for purpose of ingress
and egress to service adjacent buildings.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over twenty inches in
diameter.
   BUS ZONE. The portion of a street which has been designated by official
signs or markings, or both, as a BUS ZONE.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief Executive Officer of the Division of Police of
the Department of Public Safety of the City of Flint.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the transversable highway.
      (2)   Any portion of a highway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   DAYTIME; NIGHTTIME.  DAYTIME shall be defined as time between one-half hour
before sunrise and one-half hour after sunset. NIGHTTIME shall be defined as
the time between one-half hour after sunset, and one-half hour before sunrise.
   DEPARTMENT OF POLICE. The Division of Police of the Department of Public
Safety.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives, or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more highways
which join one another at any angle, whether or not one such highway crosses
the other.
   LOADING ZONE. That portion of any street that is reserved specifically for
the loading and unloading of any vehicle licensed as a commercial vehicle. Said
zone shall be identified by appropriate signs or markings, or both.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle seat for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter with a
motor which produces not to exceed five maximum brake horsepower, and every
bicycle with motor attached.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle as herein defined which is self-propelled and
every vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead
trolley wires but not operated upon rails.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PARKING, DOUBLE. Standing a vehicle upon a highway alongside of another
parked vehicle.
   PARKWAY. That portion of the highway between the curb and nearest property
line not used for pedestrian purposes, also any strip in center of highway
separating travel in opposite directions.
   PAVEMENT MARKINGS. Limit lines for vehicles and pedestrians painted or
similar lines marked or buttons or inserts upon or in the pavement to indicate
diversions, directions and/or regulations for traffic.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every sworn officer of the Division of Police of the
Department of Public Safety.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway in private ownership not
open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   RAILROAD. A common carrier of persons or property upon cars other than
street cars, operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD SIGN or SIGNAL. Any sign, signal or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway, of one
vehicle over another.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   ROUTE, AMBULANCE. Any street so designated by the Chief of Police, upon
certification to him or her by the president, or a duly authorized agent of the
“Ambulance or Funeral Directors Association” as the streets normally used by
such vehicles for the transportation of ill or injured persons to the various
hospitals.
   ROUTE, FIRE. Any street so designated by the Chief of Police upon
certification to him or her by the Fire Chief that such street is normally used
by fire apparatus in attending fires.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and or being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and load rests
upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb limits and the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent private property lines, intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation from movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   STREET or HIGHWAY; THROUGH or ARTERIAL. Any street or highway at which
traffic, before entering from intersecting streets, must make a complete stop.
   STREET, ONE-WAY. A street or highway where traffic flow in one direction
only is authorized.
   TAXICAB ZONE. That part of any street that is clearly marked by official
signs and/or markings as a parking or waiting zone for taxicabs licensed by the
City of Flint, Michigan.
   TIRES. All wheels, the peripheral surface of which is in contact with the
highway, constructed wholly or partly of metal or other hard, nonresilient
material, or rubber, solid or pneumatically inflated.
   TRACTORS, FARM. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing other implements of husbandry.
   TRACTORS, ROAD or TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed and/or used for
drawing other vehicles or trailers, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon independently, except a part of the weight of a vehicle or load so
drawn.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars,
trolley coaches and other conveyances either singly or together while using any
street for the purpose of travel.
   TRAFFIC ACCIDENT. Any collision between two or more vehicles or by a vehicle
with a pedestrian or other object.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. All signs, signals, markings, barricades and devices
not inconsistent with this ordinance placed or erected by authority of a public
body or officials having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning
or guiding traffic.
   TRAFFIC ENGINEER. The person in charge of the Traffic Engineering Division
of the Department of Public Works.
   TRAFFIC SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or mechanically
operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying property or persons and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
   TRAILER, POLE. Every vehicle with or without motive power designed to be
drawn by another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach
or pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for
transportation of property.
   U-TURN. Reversal of direction of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VEHICLE, AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY. Vehicles of the Fire Department, Police
Department, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments
or public service corporations as designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL. All motor vehicles used for the transportation of
passengers for hire and those constructed or used for transportation of goods,
wares or merchandise. Whenever any regulation contained herein is imposed upon
a vehicle, it shall be construed to refer to either the operator or the owner
thereof, or both when such reference would be applicable.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968; Ord. 2123, passed 4-14-1969; Ord. 2215, passed 5-18-1970)
§ 28-1.1 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   Adoption. The Uniform Traffic Code for Michigan Cities, Townships and
Villages as promulgated by the Director of the Michigan Department of State
Police pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of
1969, MCLA §§ 24.201 through 24.328 effective October 30, 2002, and all future
amendments and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated
and effective in this State, together with the City of Flint amendments as
prepared by the Traffic Engineering Division of the Transportation Department
and kept on file in the City Clerk’s Office, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (b)   References in code. References in the Uniform Traffic Code for cities,
townships and villages to a “governmental unit” shall mean the City of Flint.
   (c)   Notice to be published. The City of Flint shall publish this ordinance
in the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice
stating the purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and
Villages and the fact that a complete copy of the code is available at the
office of the Clerk for inspection.
   (d)   Penalties. The penalties provided for by the Uniform Traffic Code for
cities, townships and villages are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2724, passed 7-23-1979; Ord. 2725, passed 7-23-1979; Ord. 2810, passed
10-12-1981; Ord. 3508, passed 12-9-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Administrative Procedures Act, see MCLA §§ 24.201 et seq.
§ 28-1.2 MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (a)   Purpose. This section is adopted in the interest of public safety and
convenience and is designed to promote the general peace, health, safety,
welfare and good government of the City.
   (b)   Adoption. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Public Act 300 of
1949, as amended, being the Michigan Vehicle Code, MCLA §§ 257.1 through
257.923, and MSA § 9.1801 et seq., as enacted and amended from time to time by
the Michigan Legislature, is adopted by reference, including any subsequent
amendments enacted by the Michigan Legislature after the adoption of this
ordinance, for enforcement by the City of Flint as a local ordinance, as
authorized by MCLA § 117.3(k), for the purpose of enacting and enforcing the
provisions of the Michigan Vehicle Code within the City.
   (c)   References in code. References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to LOCAL
AUTHORITIES shall mean the City of Flint.
   (d)   Penalties. The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are
adopted by reference, provided, however, that the City may not enforce any
provision of the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of
imprisonment is greater than 93 days.
   (e)   Citations. Any citations written by the Flint City Police Department,
or any other person authorized to issue citations, shall reference the
violation on the citation as follows:
      Section 28 followed by the three-digit section number of the Michigan
Motor Vehicle Code violated
      (Sample: “28-___”)
      When issuing parking citations, the authorized person issuing the
citation shall reference the type of improper parking on the citation.
(Ord. 3503, passed 10-28-2002; Ord. 3673, passed 12-21-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Michigan Vehicle Code, see MCLA §§ 257.1 et seq.
§ 28-1.3 MOTOR CARRIERS.
   This section is adopted by reference in the interest of public safety and
convenience and is designed to promote the general peace, health, safety,
welfare and good government of the City of Flint through the adoption of
Michigan Public Act 94 of 2000, Michigan Public Act 97 of 2000, and Michigan
Public Act 98 of 2000, as follows:
   (a)   Michigan Public Act 94 of 2000, which is an Act to amend Public Act
300 of 1949, entitled “An Act to provide for the regulation, titling, sale,
transfer, and regulation of certain vehicles operated upon the public highways
of this State or any other place open to the general public or generally
accessible to motor vehicles and distressed vehicles; to provide for the
licensing of dealers; to provide for the giving of proof of financial
responsibility and security by owners and operators of vehicles; to provide for
the imposition, levy, and collection of specific taxes on vehicles, and the
levy and collection of sales and use taxes, license fees, and permit fees; to
provide for the regulation and use of streets and highways; to create certain
funds; to provide penalties and sanctions for a violation of this Act; to
provide for civil liability of owners and operators of vehicles and services of
process on residents and nonresidents; to provide for the levy of certain
assessments; to provide for the enforcement of this Act; to provide for the
creation of and to prescribe the powers and enforcement of this Act; to provide
for the creation of and to prescribe the powers and duties of certain State and
local agencies; to repeal all other Act s or parts of Act s inconsistent with
this Act or contrary to this Act; and to repeal certain parts of this Act on a
specific date,” by amending Section 909 (MCLA § 257.909).
   (b)   Michigan Public Act 97 of 2000, which is an act to amend Public Act
300 of 1949, entitled “An Act to provide for the registration, titling, sale,
transfer, and regulation of certain vehicles operated upon the public highways
of this State or any other place open to the general public or generally
accessible to motor vehicles and distressed vehicles; to provide for the
licensing of dealers; to provide for the examination, licensing, and control of
operators and chauffeurs; to provide for the giving of proof of financial
responsibility and security by owners and operators of vehicles; to provide for
the imposition, levy, and collection of specific taxes on vehicles, and the
levy and collection of sales and use taxes, license fees, and permit fees; to
provide for the regulation and use of streets and highways; to create certain
funds; to provide penalties and sanctions for a violation of this Act; to
provide for civil liability of owners and operators of vehicles and services of
process on residents and nonresidents; to provide for the levy of certain
assessments; to provide for the enforcement of this Act; to provide for the
creation of and to prescribe the powers and duties of certain State and local
agencies; to repeal all other Act s or parts of this Act on a specific date,”
by amending Sections 605 and 683 (MCLA §§ 257.605 and 257.688), Section 605 as
amended by Public Act 267 of 1999;
   (c)   Michigan Public Act 98 of 2000, which is an Act to amend Public Act
181 of 1963, entitled “An Act to promote safety upon the public highways by
regulating the operation of certain vehicles; to provide consistent regulation
of these areas by State agencies and local units of government; to establish
the qualifications of persons necessary for the safe operation of such
vehicles; to limit the hours of service of persons engaged in operating such
vehicles; to require the keeping of records of such operations; to provide
penalties for the violation of this Act; to prescribe the powers and duties of
certain State agencies; and to repeal certain Acts and parts of Act,” by
amending Sections 7, 7b, 7c and 11 (MCLA §§ 480.17, 480.17b, 480.17c and
480.21), Sections 7 and 11 as amended and Section 7c as added by Public Act 265
of 1995 and Section 7b as amended by Public Act 339 of 1990;
   (d)   Any changes or amendments of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, the
Motor Carrier Act, or the Motor Carrier Safety Act subsequent to the effective
date of this ordinance shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference and made
a part hereof as if such changes or amendments were in effect as of the
effective date of this ordinance.
   (e)   A copy of this ordinance, Michigan Public Act 94 of 2000, Michigan
Public Act 97 of 2000, and Michigan Public Act 98 of 2000, which have been
adopted by reference can be inspected or obtained at the City of Flint City
Clerk’s Office, 1101 S. Saginaw Street, 2nd Floor, Flint, Michigan, during
regular business hours.
(Ord. 3745, passed 12-8-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Michigan Vehicle Code, see MCLA §§ 257.605 et seq., 257.909
   Motor Carrier Safety Act OF 1963, see MCLA §§ 480.17, 480.17b, 480.17c and
480.21
§ 28-2 PURPOSE; COMPLIANCE.
   This ordinance is adopted in the interest of public safety and convenience,
is designed to promote the general peace, health, safety, welfare, and good
government of the City of Flint. Every person, firm, or corporation shall
comply with, observe and obey, when applicable to him or it, all the
provisions, requirements and regulations contained herein, and orders of the
Chief of Police adopted or issued in pursuance of this chapter.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-2.1 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY OF TRAFFIC ENGINEER GENERALLY; EXPERIMENTAL
REGULATIONS.
   (a)   The Traffic Engineer shall install all necessary signs, signals,
street painting, etc., to control traffic in accordance with this chapter.
   (b)   The Mayor or City Council may cause to be instituted experimental
regulations contrary to the provisions of this chapter for periods up to 90
days. Such experimental regulations shall become effective seven days after
publication in a daily newspaper circulated in Genesee County and upon erection
by authorized personnel of traffic-control devices, sufficient in number to
apprise the ordinarily observant person of the existence of the regulation upon
the street or highway affected.
   (c)   Such regulations, which have proven to be of benefit, shall be
submitted to the City Council for incorporation in this chapter within 90 days.
(Ord. 2095, passed 11-11-1968; Ord. 2123, passed 4-14-1969; Ord. 2556, passed
5-10-1976; Ord. 2692, passed 2-12-1979; Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3723,
passed 7-28-2008)
§ 28-2.2 PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHING TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the City of Flint Traffic Engineer determines upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic study conducted pursuant to accepted guidelines
established by the Michigan State Highway Commission and the American
Association of State Highway Commission and the American Association of State
Highway Officials, that changes in existing regulations or new regulations
controlling parking time zones, no parking zones, one-way streets, stops at
railroad crossings, left and right turns at certain locations, speed limits or
any other matter pertaining to the movement and parking of vehicles are
necessary, he shall file said new regulations or changes, other than those in
effect pursuant to §
28-1.1, with the City Clerk. Unless said proposed changes are rejected by the
City Council within thirty (30) days after receipt by the City Clerk, they
shall become effective as soon thereafter as appropriate signs, conforming to
specifications listed in the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
and sufficient in number to apprise the ordinary observant person of the
existence of the regulations are installed. The new regulations and changes and
the signs installed, relative thereto shall be incorporated into the list of
regulations currently in effect and hereby adopted as the “official
regulations” and “authorized signs” for the purposes of
Chapter 28. A list of all regulations and the location of all signs shall be
maintained in the office of Traffic Engineer, and a list of all regulations
shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2692, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 28-3 APPLICABILITY TO BICYCLES, ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding a bicycle or any animal, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this ordinance applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this ordinance which by their very nature can have no
application, and except as persons riding bicycles are subject to additional or
special rules by State law or this ordinance.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-4 APPLICABILITY TO HAND AND FOOT PROPELLED CARTS; CARTS TO BE REMOVED AT
REQUEST OF POLICE.
   Hand and foot propelled conveyances, push carts, and other similar wagons
and conveyances shall comply with all regulations contained herein pertaining
to vehicles insofar as the same is applicable to them. Any such carts, fruit
vending carts or other licensed wagon or stand used for selling nuts, candy,
fruit or other articles, shall when standing in a place where parking of
vehicles is allowed, move from such space upon the request of a police officer.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-5 APPLICABILITY TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to any driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this State,
County or City, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of
the provisions of this ordinance, except as otherwise permitted in this
ordinance or by State statute.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-6 APPLICABILITY TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this ordinance regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this ordinance, except as follows. A driver when operating any such vehicle
in an emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
   (a)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this ordinance.
   (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing
down as may be necessary for safe operation.
   (c)   Exceed the speed limit so long as he does not endanger life or
property.
   (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specific directions so long as he does not endanger life or property.
   The foregoing exceptions shall not, however, operate to relieve the driver
of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for
the safety of all persons using the highway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-7 ENFORCEMENT; DIRECTING TRAFFIC IN EMERGENCY.
   The Chief of Police shall enforce the provisions of this ordinance and the
regulations adopted by him and/or the Traffic Engineer hereunder. Subject to
provisions hereof it shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct and
control traffic of vehicles and pedestrians.
   In case of a fire, or other emergency, or in case of a parade or other
concourse of people, the Police Department shall direct traffic and erect signs
as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this or any other
ordinance.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2095, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 28-7.1 AUTHORITY TO PERSONS OTHER THAN POLICE OFFICERS TO ISSUE PARKING
VIOLATION NOTICES.
   The Chief of Police of the City of Flint may authorize persons other than
police officers of the City of Flint to issue parking violation notices as
defined in Section 742(8)(a) of Public Act 66 of 1979, being MCLA § 257.742(8)
(a), and MSA § 9.2442, for parking violations designated as civil infractions
and committed contrary to the provisions of the Flint City Code.
   The Chief of Police shall obtain a receipt from each non-police officer to
whom a parking violation notice book has been issued upon a form created for
this purpose.
   No person shall be authorized to issue parking violation notices unless he
has received training in the pertinent procedures and ordinances of the City of
Flint at the Flint Police Regional Training Academy, and works under the
supervision of a person who, even though not regularly employed by the Police
Department, has been fully trained as required by the Michigan Law Enforcement
Officers Training Council Act.
(Ord. 2755, passed 1-14-1980)
§ 28-8 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-9 USE OF VEHICLES FOR ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, park, display or operate any vehicle on
any street displaying sign or lettering advertising said vehicle for sale;
display of such sign or lettering shall be prima facie evidence of intent to
violate this section.
   (b)   No person shall stop, stand, park, or operate any vehicle on any
street for the primary purpose of advertising.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-10 RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING OR PARKING NEAR FIRE
APPARATUS.
   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway shall yield the right-of-way to
ambulances, Police and Fire Department vehicles, when they are operated upon
official business, and the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp
exhibiting a red or blue light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from
a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle, and when the driver is
giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell.
   (a)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle giving audible signal by
bell, siren or exhaust whistle and exhibiting a red light visible from the
front of such emergency vehicle, the driver of every other vehicle shall
immediately drive same to a position as near as possible and parallel to the
right-hand edge or curb of the highway, clear of any intersection of highways,
and shall stop and remain in such position unless otherwise directed by a
police officer until the emergency vehicle shall have passed.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle other than one on
official business to follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire
alarm closer than 500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within 500 feet
where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-11 RESERVED.
§ 28-12 OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER’S VISION; WINDSHIELD WIPERS AND WASHERS.
   (a)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or so as to
interfere with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (b)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle without having an unobstructed
view to the rear of their vehicle by direct view or by mirror. Windshields in
front of a driver shall be of a clear, transparent substance, free from
cloudiness, moisture or vapor, and kept clear of snow, ice, rain, dirt or any
dangling ornament or other suspended object, except as authorized by law, which
in any way obstructs the vision of the driver of the vehicle.
   (c)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway with any sign, poster
or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield, side wings, side or
rear windows of such motor vehicle other than a certificate or other paper
required to be so displayed by law. Every windshield on a motor vehicle shall
be equipped with a device for cleaning rain, snow or other moisture and dirt
from the windshield, which device shall be so constructed as to be controlled
or operated by the driver of the vehicle and from within the vehicle, and such
windshield wiper shall be maintained in good working order.
   (d)   No motor vehicle licensed as such, and manufactured after January 1,
1956, shall be operated on the highways unless it is equipped with a windshield
washer maintained in operable condition at all times and capable of cleaning
the windshield in such a fashion as to leave the driver with a clear view of
the highway or any intersecting highway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.09
§ 28-13 USE OF SEAT BELTS IN MOTOR VEHICLES — ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   Sections 710d and 710e of the Michigan Vehicle Code covering the use of seat
belts as adopted and promulgated by the State of Michigan and otherwise known
as “The Seat Belt Law,” effective March 10, 2000, adopted and promulgated by
the State of Michigan as Public Act 29 of 1999, and as from time to time
amended by the State of Michigan, being MCLA §§ 257.710d and 257.710e or MSA §
9.2410, are hereby adopted by reference.
(Ord. 3455, passed 5-22-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Michigan Vehicle Code, see MCLA §§ 257.710d and 257.710e
§ 28-14 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF PERSONS OCCUPYING FRONT SEAT; SITTING ON
DRIVER’S LAP PROHIBITED.
   Not more than three (3) persons shall occupy the front or driver’s seat of a
motor vehicle, unless it is specifically built and intended by the manufacturer
to seat more than three persons; and no person, adult or minor, shall be seated
in the lap of the driver, nor shall the driver be seated in the lap of any
person when the motor vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.677
§ 28-15 USE OF HAND-HELD CELLULAR PHONES WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No City of Flint employee shall use a hand-held cellular telephone
while operating a moving motor vehicle that is owned by the City or used in
conducting any business for or on behalf of the City.
   (b)   No operator of a school bus, taxi, or other common carrier shall use a
hand-held cellular telephone while operating a moving motor vehicle.
   (c)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use of a cellular
telephone to call for emergency medical assistance, to report a traffic
accident or traffic hazard, to report a crime, or to make similar emergency
calls.
(Ord. 3672, passed 12-21-2005)
§ 28-16 TOWING LIMITATIONS — PASSENGER VEHICLES.
   No passenger vehicle shall be driven upon any highway drawing or having
attached thereto, more than one other vehicle or trailer.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-17 SAME — OTHER VEHICLES.
   No motor truck or tractor, or other motor propelled vehicle shall haul more
than one trailer and one semitrailer at any one time.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-18 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any bus or vehicle while such bus or
vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-19 HITCHING TO OR CLIMBING ON VEHICLE.
   No person shall hitch or climb onto any moving vehicle either with or
without the consent of the operator.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-20 RIDERS ON BICYCLES, ROLLER SKATES AND THE LIKE HITCHING ONTO MOTOR
VEHICLES.
   No person about to operate or operating a motor vehicle on the roadway of
any street in the City of Flint shall permit any minor to attach himself or
herself to any such motor vehicle while such minor person is riding, propelling
or operating any bicycle, roller skates, wagon, sled, ice skates, toboggan, or
any other vehicle or device similarly propelled or operated on wheels or
rollers.
   Any person riding upon a bicycle, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, coaster,
wagon, sled, roller or ice skates, or any toy vehicle, shall not attach the
same or himself or herself to any moving vehicle upon any street or highway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-21 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS AND THE LIKE; PENALTY.
   (a)   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster,
toy vehicle or similar devices shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing
a street at a crosswalk.
   (b)   No person shall permit any child under ten years of age, for the
actions of which child such person is legally responsible, to ride, push,
propel or operate any bicycle, tricycle, roller skates, wagon, sled, scooter,
so called ice skates, toboggan or other vehicle or device similarly propelled
or operated on wheels or runners, on the roadway of any street in the City.
   (c)   Any person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any
skateboard, coaster, toy vehicle or similar devices on any sidewalk, public
right-of-way or area commonly frequented by pedestrians shall yield the right-
of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible signal before overtaking and
passing such pedestrian.
   (d)   Violation of this section shall be a civil infraction punishable by a
fine of not more than thirty-five dollars ($35.00).
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 3006, passed 7-28-1986)
§ 28-22 THROWING OBJECTS UPON HIGHWAY; REMOVAL OF GLASS AND THE LIKE WHEN
REMOVING DAMAGED VEHICLE.
   (a)   No person shall throw or deposit from motor vehicles upon any highway
or upon any private or public property adjacent to any highway, any refuse of
any kind or nature, including, but not limited to, glass bottles, glass, nails,
tacks, wire, cans, paper, rubbish or garbage.
   (b)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from the highway,
shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway
from such vehicle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-23 PASSENGERS TO RIDE INSIDE VEHICLE; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall ride on any bus or vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designated or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not
apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of duty, or to persons
riding within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-24 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department Official in charge.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-25 VEHICLE OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   No vehicle shall be allowed to remain upon, or be driven over any highway so
as to blockade the highway, except with the permission of the Chief of Police
or other person designated by him.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-26 REMOVAL OF DISABLED OR STALLED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled upon a street or when because of damage
or other reason, it cannot be moved therefrom by its own power, it shall be the
duty of its owner or operator to remove the same, by towing or otherwise,
within a reasonable time thereafter, and in no case shall any vehicle be
permitted to remain thereon for more than two (2) hours after such disablement.
If said vehicle blockades traffic, removal shall be made at once, or the Police
Department notified.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-27 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets designated by official regulations
as one-way streets, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2692, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 28-28 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW COVERING DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED; LOCAL
AMENDMENTS.
   (a)   Sections 625, 625a, 625b, 625c, 625d, 625e, 625f, 625g, 625h, 625i,
625k, 625l, 625m, 625n, covering driving while intoxicated and the amendments
relating to the repeat offender package, effective October 1, 1999, as adopted
and promulgated by the State of Michigan as Public Act 340 through 359 of the
Michigan Public Acts of 1998, and as from time to time amended by the State of
Michigan, being MCLA §§ 257.625 et seq., and MSA §§ 24.13101 et seq., are
hereby adopted by reference, together with the following local amendments
thereto, as adopted by the Flint City Council and placed on file with the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Section 625 shall be amended as follows:
   (1)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within this City if either of the following applies:
      a.   The person is under the influence of intoxicating liquor, a
controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance.
      b.   The person has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
   (2)   The owner of a vehicle or a person in charge or in control of a
vehicle shall not authorize or knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of motor vehicles,
within this City by a person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a
controlled substance, who has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine,
or whose ability to operate the motor vehicle is visibly impaired due to the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, a controlled substance, or a combination of
intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance.
   (3)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within this City when, due to the consumption of intoxicating liquor, a
controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance, the person’s ability to operate the vehicle is visibly impaired. If
a person is charged with violating subsection (1), a finding of guilty under
this subsection may be rendered.
   (4)   A person who is less than 21 years of age, whether licensed or not,
shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles, within this City if the person has any bodily
alcohol content. As used in this subsection “any bodily alcohol content” means
either of the following:
      a.   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more than 0.07
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
      b.   Any presence of alcohol within a person’s body resulting from the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
   (5)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle in
violation of subsection (1), (3), or (4) while another person who is less than
16 years of age is occupying the vehicle. A person who violates this
subdivision is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as follows:
      a.   Community service for not more than 60 days.
      b.   A fine of not more than $500.00.
      c.   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
   (6)   If a person is convicted for violating subsection (1) the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
      a.   Community service for not more than 45 days.
      b.   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
      c.   A fine of not less than $100.00 or more than $500.00.
   (7)   A person who is convicted for violating subsection (2) is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of
not less than $100.00 or more than $500.00, or both.
   (8)   A person who is convicted of violating subsection (3), is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
      a.   Community service for not more than 45 days.
      b.   Imprisonment of not more than 93 days.
      c.   A fine of not more than $300.00.
   (9)   If a person is convicted of violating subsection (4), all of the
following apply:
      a.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection b., the person is guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
         1.   Community service for not more than 45 days.
         2.   A fine of not more the $250.00.
      b.   If the violations occurs within seven years of one or more prior
convictions, the person may be sentenced to one or more of the following:
         1.   Community service for not more than 45 days.
         2.   A fine of not more than $500.00.
         3.   Imprisonment of not more than 93 days.
   (10)   A person convicted under this section is subject to the vehicle
forfeiture provisions provided in MCLA § 257.625n as adopted by the Flint City
Code in §
28-28(a), and the vehicle immobilization provisions provided in MCLA § 257.904
(d) and (e) as adopted by the Flint City Code in §
28-187(a).
   (11)   If the prosecuting attorney intends to seek an enhanced sentence
under MCLA § 257.625n as adopted by the Flint City Code in §
28-28(a), or MCLA § 257.904 as adopted by the Flint City Code in §
28-187(a), based upon the defendant having one or more prior convictions, the
prosecuting attorney shall include on the complaint or amended complaint filed
in district court, a statement indicating the prosecuting attorney’s intention
to seek an enhanced sentence and a listing of the defendant’s prior
convictions.
   (12)   In addition to imposing the sanctions prescribed under this section,
the court may order the person to pay the costs of the prosecution under the
Code of Criminal Procedure, Public Act 175 of 1927, MCLA §§ 760.1 to 777.69.
   (13)   A person sentenced to perform community service under this section
shall not receive compensation and shall reimburse the State or appropriate
local unit of government for the cost of supervision incurred by the State or
local government as a result of the person’s activities in that service.
   (14)   If a person is charged with a violation of subsection (1), (3) or
(5), or MCLA § 257.625m the Court shall not permit the defendant to enter a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a charge of violating subsection (4) in
exchange for dismissal of the original charge. This subsection does not
prohibit the Court from dismissing the charge upon the prosecuting attorney’s
motion.
   (15)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (17), if a person is
charged with operating a vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance in
violation of subsection (1), the Court shall require the jury to return a
special verdict in the form of a written finding or, if the Court convicts the
person without a jury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the Court
shall make a finding as to whether the person was under the influence of a
controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance at the time of the violation.
   (16)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (17), if a person is
charged with operating a vehicle while his or her ability to operate the
vehicle was visibly impaired due to his or her consumption of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance in
violation of subsection (3), the Court shall require the jury to return a
special verdict in the form of a written finding or, if the Court convicts the
person without a jury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the Court
shall make a finding as to whether, due to the consumption of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance,
the person’s ability to operate a motor vehicle was visibly impaired at the
time of the violation.
   (17)   A special verdict described in subsections (15) and (16) is not
required if a jury is instructed to make a finding solely as to either of the
following:
      a.   Whether the defendant was under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor at the time of the violation.
      b.   Whether the defendant was visibly impaired due to his or her
consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor
and a controlled substance at the time of the violation.
   (18)   If a jury or Court finds under subsection (15), (16) or (17) that the
defendant operated a motor vehicle under the influence of or while impaired due
to the consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of a controlled
substance and an intoxicating liquor, the Court shall do both of the following:
      a.   Report the finding to the Secretary of State.
      b.   On a form or forms prescribed by the State Court Administrator,
forward to the Department of State Police a record that specifies the penalties
imposed by the Court, including any term of imprisonment, and any sanction
imposed under sections MCLA § 257.625n as adopted by the Flint City Code in §
28-28(a), or MCLA § 257.904d as adopted by the Flint City Code in §
28-187(a).
   (19)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a record described in subsection
(18)b. is a public record and the Department of State Police shall retain the
information contained on that record for not less than seven years.
   (20)   In a prosecution for a violation of subsection (4), the defendant
bears the burden of proving that the consumption of intoxicating liquor was a
part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony by a preponderance
of the evidence.
(Ord. 3443, passed 10-11-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Code of Criminal Procedure, see MCLA 760.1 through 777.69
   Michigan Vehicle Code, see MCLA 257.625 et seq., 257.904 et seq.
§ 28-28.1 DETENTION OF DRIVER; VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION; TEMPORARY VEHICLE
REGISTRATION PLATE (MCLA § 257.904c).
   (a)   When a peace officer detains the driver of a motor vehicle for a
violation of a local ordinance for which vehicle immobilization is required,
the peace officer shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Immediately confiscate the vehicle’s registration plate and destroy
it.
      (2)   Issue a temporary vehicle registration plate for the vehicle in the
same form prescribed by the Secretary of State for temporary registration
plates issued under MCLA § 257.226a or § 257.226b.
      (3)   Place the temporary vehicle registration plate on the vehicle in
the manner required by the Secretary of State.
      (4)   Notify the Secretary of State through the law enforcement
information network in a form prescribed by the Secretary of State that the
registration plate was confiscated and destroyed, and a temporary plate was
issued.
   (b)   A temporary vehicle registration plate issued under this section is
valid until the charges against the person are dismissed, the person pleads
guilty or nolo contendere to those charges, or the person is found guilty of or
is acquitted of those charges.
(Ord. 3443, passed 10-11-1999)
§§ 28-28.2 — 28-28.4 RESERVED.
§ 28-28.5 EXPENSES OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE TO OUIL-OWI INCIDENT; DUTY TO PAY OF
PERSON CONVICTED.
   (a)   A person convicted of a violation of §
28-28 of the Flint City Code shall, in addition to any other penalty authorized
by law, be liable to the City of flint for the expense of an emergency response
to the incident from which the conviction arose.
   (b)   An emergency response to an incident occurs whenever police,
firefighting, emergency medical and/or rescue services of the City of Flint are
used as a result of a traffic stop or accident in which the operator of the
motor vehicle stopped or, at least, one operator of a motor vehicle involved in
the accident, is arrested for operating a motor vehicle while impaired by or
under the influence of an alcoholic beverage and/or controlled substance.
   (c)   The expenses for which a person is liable under this section include
the following:
      (1)   The salaries or wages, including overtime pay, of law enforcement
personnel for the time spent in relation to the incident from which the
conviction arose, including the arrest of the person convicted, processing the
person after arrest, preparing reports on the incident, investigating the
incident, and all costs of collecting and analyzing evidence, including
determining the blood alcohol content and determining the presence of and
identifying controlled substances in the blood.
      (2)   The salaries or wages, including overtime pay, of Fire Department,
emergency medical and/or rescue services personnel for providing firefighting,
emergency medical or rescue services in relation to the incident from which the
conviction arose.
      (3)   For a first conviction of §
28-28, a person is liable for 50% of the expenses above or one hundred dollars
($100.00) whichever is lesser;
      (4)   For a second conviction of §
28-28, a person is liable for expenses above not to exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00).
      (5)   For a third or any subsequent conviction of §
28-28, a person is liable for one hundred percent (100%) of the expenses above.
   (d)   The City Council shall adopt, by resolution, a schedule of wages,
salaries and overtime rates of law enforcement, firefighting, emergency medical
and/or rescue services personnel and the costs allowed by this section; such
schedule shall be available to the public from the City Clerk.
   (e)   Following conviction, the Treasurer shall submit a bill for the
expenses of the emergency response to the person convicted by first class mail
or by personal service. The bill shall require full payment within thirty (30)
days from the date of service.
   (f)   Any failure by the person convicted to pay the bill for the expenses
of the emergency response within thirty (30) days of service shall be
considered a default. In case of default, the City may commence civil suit to
recover such expenses plus any costs allowed by law.
(Ord. 3141, passed 9-10-1990)
§ 28-28.6 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW COVERING POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL IN PASSENGER
COMPARTMENT OF A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (a)   Section 624a of the Michigan Vehicle Code, covering possession of open
alcohol in a passenger compartment, as adopted and promulgated by the State of
Michigan as Public Act 98 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1991, and as from time
to time amended by the State of Michigan (being MCLA §§ 257.624a et seq.; MSA
§§ 9.2324(1) et seq.), is hereby adopted by reference by the Flint City Council
and placed on file with the City Clerk.
   (b)   This section shall read as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2), a person shall not transport
or possess alcoholic liquor in a container that is open or uncapped or upon
which the seal is broken within the passenger compartment of a vehicle upon a
highway, or within the passenger compartment of a moving vehicle in any place
open to the general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including
an area designated for the parking of vehicles, in this State.
      (2)   Exception. A person may transport or possess alcoholic liquor in a
container that is open or uncapped or upon which the seal is broken within the
passenger compartment of a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the
general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area
designated for the parking of vehicles in this State, if the vehicle does not
have a trunk or compartment separate from the passenger compartment, the
container is enclosed or encased, and the container is not readily accessible
to the occupants of the vehicle.
      (3)   Violation as misdemeanor. A person who violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (4)   Chartered vehicle exception. This section does not apply to a
passenger in a chartered vehicle authorized to operate by the Michigan
Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 3295, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 28-28.7 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE WITH ANY
BODILY ALCOHOL CONTENT PROHIBITED.
   A person who is less than twenty-one (21) years of age, whether licensed or
not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the
general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area
designated for the parking of vehicles, within this State if the person has any
bodily alcohol content. As used in this subsection, ANY BODILY ALCOHOL CONTENT
means either of the following:
   (a)   A blood alcohol content of not less than 0.02% or more than 0.07% by
weight of alcohol.
   (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person’s body resulting from the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
(Ord. 3294, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 28-29 OBSTRUCTING THE VIEW OF A MOTOR COACH DRIVER.
   (a)   No person, having boarded a trolley coach or motor coach, shall so
stand or remain therein as to prevent its operator from having, while in his
customary position to operate it, a completely clear, unobstructed view of
objects outside the vehicle either ahead of it or to the operator’s left or to
his right, or from having a completely clear, unobstructed view of the
frontmost door of the vehicle.
   (b)   Any person, having boarded a trolley coach or motor coach and so
standing or remaining therein as to prevent the operator of such vehicle from
having the completely clear, unobstructed views described in section (a),
shall, upon request of the operator, promptly so remove himself from such
position as to afford the operator such views.
   (c)   The owner of a trolley coach or motor coach shall post such signs
within said trolley coach or motor coach as will reasonably inform any person
boarding said coach of the requirements of this ordinance and shall designate
by a red line the area which must not be occupied by any person boarding said
coach in complying with sections (a) and (b) hereof.
(Ord. 860, passed 5-23-1949)
§ 28-30 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   (a)   The owner or operator of a motor vehicle who operates or permits its
operation upon the highways of this State shall produce, in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (b) of this section, upon the request of any peace
officer, evidence that the vehicle is an insured motor vehicle.
   (b)   An owner or operator of a motor vehicle who fails to produce evidence
when requested to do so or within seventy-two (72) hours thereafter is guilty
of a civil infraction. A certificate of insurance, if issued by an insurance
company, stating that there is in force a liability policy meeting the
requirements of the Motor Vehicle Accident Claims Act of the State, shall be
accepted as prima facie evidence of insurance being in force until the
expiration date shown on the certificate. The certificate shall state the name
of each person named on the policy, policy declarations or declaration
certificate whose operation of the vehicle causes the liability coverage to
become void.
   (c)   Every owner or operator of a motor vehicle who knowingly produces
false evidence under this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition, his
operator’s or chauffeur’s license or motor vehicle registration, or both, may
be suspended by the Secretary of State for a period of not more than one year.
   (d)   Where the owner or operator of a motor vehicle is convicted under this
section, the license plates and registrations shall be forwarded by the Court
to the Department of State for cancellation unless he produces evidence that
there was in force a liability policy meeting the minimum requirements of the
Motor Vehicle Accident Claims Act of this State with respect to the operation
of the motor vehicle at the time the offense was committed.
   (e)   This section does not apply to the owner or operator of a motor
vehicle that is registered in a County, State or province other than this
State.
(Ord. 2237, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 2671, passed 10-23-1978; Ord. 3207, passed
6-8-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Motor Vehicle Accident Claims Act, see MCLA 257.1101 et seq.
§ 28-30.1 MAINTENANCE OF PROPER INSURANCE OR SECURITY FOR PAYMENT OF BENEFITS.
   (a)   For the purposes of this section the following phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them below.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, including a trailer operated or designated for
operation upon a public highway by power other than muscular power which has
more than two (2) wheels. MOTOR VEHICLE does not include a motorcycle, or a
moped as defined in Section 32b of Act 300 of the Public Acts of 1949, as
amended, being MCLA § 257.32b, and MSA § 9.1832(2).
      MOTORCYCLE. A vehicle having a saddle or seat for the use of the rider,
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, which is equipped with a motor that exceeds fifty (50) cubic
centimeters piston displacement. The wheels on any attachment to the vehicle
shall not be considered as wheels in contact with the ground. MOTORCYCLE does
not include a moped, as defined by Section 32b of Act 300 of the Public Acts of
1949, as amended, being MCLA § 257.32b, and MSA § 9.1832(2).
      SECURITY FOR THE PAYMENT OF BENEFITS. Any policy of insurance,
certificate of self-insurance as issued by the Secretary of State or any other
method affording security equivalent to that afforded by a policy of insurance,
if proof of the security is approved by the Secretary of State and filed and
continuously maintained with the Secretary of State throughout the registration
period of a particular vehicle, as required by Michigan State Law, being Public
Act 294 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1972, as amended, being MCLA §§ 500.3101
et seq., and MSA §§ 24.13101 et seq.
   (b)   (1)   The owner or registrant of a motor vehicle required to be
registered in this State shall maintain security for the payment of benefits
under personal protection insurance, property protection insurance and residual
liability insurance. Such security shall be in effect continuously during the
period of registration of the motor vehicle.
      (2)   The owner or registrant of a motor vehicle who is not a resident of
the State of Michigan, whose vehicle is not registered with the State of
Michigan, shall not operate or permit the vehicle to be operated within the
City of Flint for an aggregate of more than thirty (30) days for any calendar
year unless he or she maintains security for the payment of benefits as
required by Michigan State law.
      (3)   Any owner or registrant of a motorcycle shall provide security as
required by Michigan State law against loss resulting from liability imposed by
law for property damage, bodily injury or death suffered by a person arising
out of the ownership, maintenance or use of that motorcycle. Such security
shall comply with the requirements set forth in MCLA § 500.3009.
   (c)   Any owner or registrant of a motor vehicle or a motorcycle as defined
above, which is required by this section or by any section of Act 294 of the
Public Acts of 1972, as amended, to maintain appropriate security, who operates
such motor vehicle or motorcycle or permits it to be operated upon a public
highway within the City of Flint without having the required security in full
force and effect shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (d)   Any other person who operates a motor vehicle, or a motorcycle as
defined above upon a public highway in this City with the knowledge that the
owner or registrant of such vehicle does not have the required security in full
force and effect is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2827, passed 3-8-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Insurance Code of 1956, see MCLA 500.3101 et seq., 500.3101a, 500.3009 et
seq.
   Michigan Vehicle Code, see MCLA 257.32b
§ 28-30.2 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF § 28-30.1.
   Any conviction of a civil infraction under §
28-30.1 shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). However, if the defendant produces proof
of insurance at or before the time responsibility is established either by a
plea of responsibility or a finding of responsibility either at a hearing or by
default, the defendant shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
(Ord. 2827, passed 3-8-1982; Ord. 3207, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 28-30.3 REPORTS INVOLVING LAW ENFORCEMENT INFORMATION NETWORK.
   A police agency, upon receiving reliable information that any vehicle
registered under this Act has been stolen, shall immediately report the theft
through the law enforcement information network. Upon receiving information
that a vehicle previously reported as stolen has been recovered, the police
agency shall immediately report the fact of the recovery through the law
enforcement information network.
(Ord. 2939, passed 2-11-1985)
§ 28-31 ABANDONED VEHICLE — DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, ABANDONED VEHICLE means a vehicle which has
remained on public property or private property for a period of forty-eight
(48) hours after a police agency or other governmental agency designated by the
police agency has affixed the written notice to the vehicle.
(Ord. 2854, passed 9-27-1982; Ord. 2939, passed 2-11-1985)
§ 28-32 SAME — ACTION BY POLICE.
   (a)   If a vehicle remains on public or private property for a period of
time, so that it appears to the police agency to be abandoned, the police
agency shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen;
      (2)   Affix a written notice to the vehicle. The written notice shall
contain the following information:
         a.   The date and time the notice was affixed;
         b.   The name and address of the police agency taking the action;
         c.   The name and identification number of the police official
affixing the notice;
         d.   The date and time the vehicle must be taken into custody and
stored at the owner’s expense or scrapped if the vehicle is not removed;
         e.   The year, make and vehicle identification number of the vehicle,
if available.
   (b)   If the vehicle is not removed within forty-eight (48) hours after the
date the notice was affixed, the vehicle is deemed abandoned and the police
agency may have the vehicle taken into custody.
(Ord. 2854, passed 9-27-1982; Ord. 2939, passed 2-11-1985; Ord. 3120, passed
11-13-1989)
§ 28-33 SAME — PROCEDURE UPON TAKING VEHICLE INTO CUSTODY.
   A police agency which has taken a vehicle into custody shall do the
following:
   (a)   Recheck to determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen;
   (b)   Within twenty-four (24) hours after taking the vehicle into custody,
enter the vehicle as abandoned into the law enforcement information network;
   (c)   Within seven (7) days after taking the vehicle into custody, send to
the registered owner and secured party, as shown by the records of the
Secretary of State, by first class mail or personal service, notice that the
vehicle has been deemed abandoned. The form for the notice shall be furnished
by the Secretary of State. Each notice form shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The year, make and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, if
available.
      (2)   The location from which the vehicle was taken into custody;
      (3)   The date on which the vehicle was taken into custody;
      (4)   The name and address of the police agency which had the vehicle
taken into custody;
      (5)   The business address of the custodian of the vehicle;
      (6)   The procedure to redeem the vehicle;
      (7)   The procedure to contest the fact that the vehicle has been deemed
abandoned or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage fees;
      (8)   A form petition which the owner may file in person or by mail with
the specified Court which requests a hearing on the police agency’s action;
      (9)   A warning that the failure to redeem the vehicle or to request a
hearing within twenty (20) days after the date of the notice may result in the
sale of the vehicle and the termination of all rights of the owner and the
secured party to the vehicle to the proceeds of the sale.
(Ord. 2129, passed 5-19-1969; Ord. 2854, passed 9-27-1982; Ord. 2939, passed 2-
11-1985)
§ 28-34 SAME — HEARING; REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE.
   The registered owner may contest the fact that the vehicle has been deemed
abandoned, or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily charges, storage
fees, by requesting a hearing conducted pursuant to Sections 252e and 252f of
the Michigan Vehicle Code, being MCLA §§ 257.1 et seq. A request for a hearing
shall be made by filing a petition with the Court specified in the notice,
within twenty (20) days after the date of the notice. If the owner requests a
hearing, the matter shall be resolved after a hearing as described above is
conducted. The owner of a vehicle who requests a hearing may obtain a release
of the vehicle by posting a towing and storage bond, in the amount equal to the
accrued towing and storage fees, with the Court. The owner of a vehicle who
requests a hearing may obtain release of the vehicle by paying the towing and
storage fees instead of posting the towing and storage bond. If the Court finds
that the vehicle was not properly deemed abandoned, the police agency shall
reimburse the owner of the vehicle for the accrued towing and storage fees.
   If the owner does not request a hearing, he or she may obtain the release of
the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the vehicle.
   If the owner does not redeem the vehicle or request a hearing within twenty
(20) days after the date of the notice, the secured party may obtain the
release of the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the
vehicle and the police agency for its accrued costs.
(Ord. 2129, passed 5-19-1969; Ord. 2854, passed 9-27-1982; Ord. 2939, passed 2-
11-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Michigan Vehicle Code, see MCLA 257.252e, 257.252f
§ 28-35 SAME — DISPOSITION OF UNREDEEMED VEHICLE AT PUBLIC SALE.
   Not less than twenty (20) days after the disposition of the hearing as
described above or, if a hearing is not requested, not less than twenty (20)
days after the date of the notice, the police agency shall offer the vehicle
for sale at a public sale pursuant to MCLA § 257.252.
   If the ownership of a vehicle which has been deemed abandoned under this
chapter cannot be determined, either because of the condition of the vehicle
identification number or because a check with the records of the Secretary of
the State does not reveal ownership, the police agency may sell the vehicle at
a public sale, pursuant to MCLA § 257.252, not less than thirty (30) days after
the public notice of the sale has been published.
(Ord. 2129, passed 5-19-1969; Ord. 2854, passed 9-27-1982; Ord. 2939, passed 2-
11-1985)
§ 28-36 REGISTERED AND UNREGISTERED ABANDONED SCRAP VEHICLES; POLICE
PROCEDURES; NOTICE; HEARING; RELEASE.
   (a)   As used in this chapter,
      REGISTERED ABANDONED SCRAP VEHICLE means a vehicle which meets all of the
following requirements:
         (1)   Is on public or private property.
         (2)   Is seven or more years old.
         (3)   Is apparently inoperable or is extensively damaged, to the
extent that the cost of repairing the vehicle so that it is operational and
safe as required by State statute would exceed the fair market value of that
vehicle.
         (4)   Is currently registered in the State of Michigan or displays
current year registration plates from another State.
         (5)   Is not removed within forty-eight (48) hours after a written
notice as described in §
28-32(b) is affixed to the vehicle.
      UNREGISTERED ABANDONED SCRAP VEHICLE means a vehicle which meets all of
the following requirements:
         (1)   Is on public or private property.
         (2)   Is seven or more years old.
         (3)   Is apparently inoperable or is extensively damaged, to the
extent that the cost of repairing the vehicle so that it is operational and
safe, would exceed the fair market value of that vehicle.
         (4)   Is not currently registered in this State and does not display
current year registration plates from another State.
         (5)   Is not removed within forty-eight (48) hours after a written
notice as described in §
28-32(b) is affixed to the vehicle.
   (b)   A police agency may have an unregistered abandoned scrap vehicle taken
into custody, in which case the police agency shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (2)   Take two photographs of the vehicle.
      (3)   Make a report to substantiate the vehicle as an unregistered
abandoned scrap vehicle. The report shall contain the following information:
         a.   The year, make and vehicle identification number if available.
         b.   The date of abandonment.
         c.   The location of abandonment.
         d.   A detailed listing of damage or the missing equipment.
         e.   The reporting officer’s name and title.
         f.   The location where the vehicle is being held.
      (4)   Within twenty-four (24) hours of taking the vehicle into custody,
enter the vehicle into the law enforcement information network.
   (c)   Within twenty-four (24) hours, excluding Saturday, Sunday, and legal
holidays, after taking the vehicle into custody, the police agency shall
complete a release form and release the vehicle to the towing service or a used
vehicle parts dealer or vehicle scrap metal processor, who shall then transmit
that release form to the Secretary of State and apply for a certificate of
title or a certificate of scrapping. Upon receipt of the release form and
application, the Secretary of State shall issue a certificate of title or a
certificate of scrapping.
   (d)   The release form described in subsection (c) shall be furnished by the
Secretary of State and shall include a certification executed by the applicable
police agency when the abandoned scrap vehicle is released. The certification
shall state that the police agency has complied with all requirements of this
subsection.
   (e)   The Secretary of State shall retain the records relating to an
abandoned scrap vehicle for not less than two years. The two photographs taken
pursuant to subsection (b) above shall be retained by the police agency for not
less than two years. After the certificate of scrapping has been issued, a
certificate of title for the vehicle shall not be issued again.
   (f)   A police agency may have a registered abandoned scrap vehicle taken
into custody, in which case the police agency shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Determine if the vehicle has been stolen.
      (2)   Take two photographs.
      (3)   Make a report to substantiate the vehicle as a registered abandoned
scrap vehicle. The report shall contain the following information:
         a.   The year, make and vehicle identification number, if available.
         b.   The date of abandonment.
         c.   The location of abandonment.
         d.   A detailed listing of the damage or missing equipment.
         e.   The reporting officer’s name and title.
         f.   The location where the vehicle is being held.
      (4)   Within twenty-four (24) hours after taking the vehicle into
custody, enter the vehicle into the law enforcement information network.
      (5)   Within seven days after taking the vehicle into custody, send to
the registered owner and secured party, as shown by the records of the
Secretary of State, by first class mail or personal service, notice that the
vehicle has been deemed abandoned. The form for the notice shall be furnished
by the Secretary of State. Each notice form shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The year, make, and vehicle identification number of the vehicle
if available.
         b.   The location from which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         c.   The date on which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         d.   The name and address of the police agency which had the vehicle
taken into custody.
         e.   The business address of the custodians of the vehicle.
         f.   The procedure to redeem the vehicle.
         g.   The procedure to contest the fact that the vehicle has been
abandoned or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage fees.
         h.   A form petition which the owner may file in person or by mail
with the specified Court which requests a hearing on police agency’s action.
         i.   A warning that the failure to redeem the vehicle or to request a
hearing within twenty (20) days after the date of the notice may result in the
termination of all rights of the owner and the secured party to the vehicle.
   (g)   The registered owner of a registered abandoned scrap vehicle may
contest the fact that the vehicle has been deemed abandoned or the
reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage fees by requesting a
hearing. A request for a hearing shall be made by filing a petition with the
Court specified in the notice within twenty (20) days after the date of the
notice. If the owner requests a hearing, the matter shall be resolved after a
hearing conducted pursuant to MCLA § 257.252(e) and (f). An owner who requests
a hearing may obtain release of the vehicle by posting a towing and storage
bond with the Court in an amount as determined by the Court. The owner of a
vehicle who requests a hearing may obtain release of the vehicle by paying the
towing and storage fees instead of posting the towing and storage bond. If the
Court finds that the vehicle was not properly deemed abandoned, the police
agency shall reimburse the owner of the vehicle for the accrued towing and
storage fees.
   (h)   If the owner does not request a hearing, he may obtain the release of
the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the vehicle.
   (i)   If the owner does not redeem the vehicle or request a hearing within
twenty (20) days after the date of the notice, the secured party may obtain
release of the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the
vehicle.
   (j)   Not less than twenty (20) days after the disposition of the hearing
described in subsection (g) above, or if a hearing is not requested, not less
than twenty (20) days after the date of the notice described in subsection (f)
(5) above, the police agency shall follow the procedures established in
subsections (c) to (e) hereof.
(Ord. 2939, passed 2-11-1985)
§ 28-37 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES BY OTHER THAN REGISTERED OWNER OR POLICE AGENCY.
   (a)   When a vehicle is removed from private property at the direction of a
person other than the registered owner of the vehicle or a police agency, the
custodian of the vehicle immediately shall notify the police agency from whose
jurisdiction the vehicle was towed. The custodian shall supply that information
which is necessary for the police agency to enter the vehicle into the law
enforcement information network.
   (b)   Upon receipt of the notification described in subsection (a) above,
the police agency shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen;
      (2)   Enter the vehicle into the law enforcement information network.
   (c)   The owner of the vehicle removed as described in subsection (a) above
may obtain release of the vehicle by paying the accrued towing and storage fees
to the custodian of the vehicle. Upon release of the vehicle, the custodian
shall notify the police agency of the disposition of the vehicle.
   (d)   If the vehicle described in subsection (a) above is not claimed by the
owner within seven (7) days after the police agency had been notified by the
custodian that it has been taken into custody, the vehicle is deemed abandoned
and the procedures prescribed in §
28-36 apply.
(Ord. 2939, passed 2-11-1985)
§ 28-38 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES BY POLICE CHIEF OR POLICE AGENCY.
   (a)   The Chief of Police or a designated representative of the Chief of
Police by the police agency may provide for the immediate removal of a vehicle
from public or private property to a place of safekeeping at the expense of the
registered owner of the vehicle in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   If the vehicle is in such a condition that the continued operation
of the vehicle upon the highway would constitute an immediate hazard to the
public.
      (2)   If the vehicle is parked or standing upon the highway in such a
manner as to create an immediate public hazard or an obstruction of traffic.
      (3)   If a vehicle is parked in a posted tow away zone.
      (4)   If there is reasonable cause to believe that the vehicle or any
part of the vehicle is stolen.
      (5)   If the vehicle must be seized to preserve evidence of a crime, or
when there is reasonable cause to believe that the vehicle was used in the
commission of a crime.
      (6)   If removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because of
fire, flood, storm, snow, natural or manmade disaster, or other emergency.
      (7)   If the vehicle is hampering the use of private property by the
owner or person in charge of that property or is parked in a manner which
impedes the movement of another vehicle.
      (8)   Failing to satisfy or answer parking violation notices or citations
regarding illegal parking:
         a.   When any vehicle is identified and located whose registered owner
has failed to satisfy or answer six or more parking violation notices or
citations regarding illegal parking, which owner has been sent previous
notification pursuant to §
28-115.1 hereof.
         b.   When a vehicle is in the circumstance described in subsection (a)
(8)a. above, the Chief of Police or the designated representative of the Chief
of Police may, in lieu of or prior to impoundment, attach to the vehicle an
immobilization device that will prevent the vehicle from being moved. Such
device may be removed by the Chief of Police or the designated representative
if the violations are paid together with a device removal fee, if security is
posted for Court appearance on the violations as provided in subsection (c)(3)
below, if the violations are dismissed, or if it is necessary to impound the
vehicle. Said removal fee shall be established from time to time by resolution
of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix
A of the City Code. It is unlawful for any person to remove such device without
authorization of the Chief of Police or the designated representative. The
following limitations shall be applicable in all cases where an immobilization
device is utilized.
            1.   Immobilization shall be limited to a period not to exceed
twenty-four (24) hours, except under emergency or unusual conditions as may be
determined by the Chief of Police or the designated representative to exist, in
his discretion, for safety or traffic reasons pursuant to which said time
period may be reduced or extended.
            2.   No vehicle shall be impounded by use of an immobilization
device unless said vehicle is owned by a person in violation of subsection (a)
(8).
            3.   No vehicle shall be immobilized within the traveled portion of
any street or on any portion of a street or sidewalk when the immobilization at
such place would create a hazard to the public or to traffic.
   (b)   A police agency which authorizes the removal of a vehicle under
subsection (a) above shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Check to determine if the vehicle is stolen.
      (2)   Within twenty-four (24) hours after removing the vehicle, enter the
vehicle into the law enforcement information network if the vehicle has not
been redeemed. This subsection does not apply to a vehicle that is removed from
the scene of a motor vehicle traffic accident.
      (3)   If the vehicle has not been redeemed within ten (10) days after
removing the vehicle, send to the registered owner and the secured party as
shown by the records of the Secretary of State, by first class mail or personal
service, a notice that the vehicle has been removed; however, if the police
agency informs the owner or operator of the vehicle of the removal and the
location of the vehicle within twenty-four (24) hours after the removal, and if
the vehicle has not been redeemed within thirty (30) days and upon complaint
from the towing service, the police agency shall send the notice within thirty
(30) days of the removal. The notice shall be by a form furnished by the
Secretary of State. The notice shall contain the following information:
         a.   The year, make and vehicle identification number of the vehicle.
         b.   The location from which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         c.   The date on which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         d.   The name and address of the police agency which had the vehicle
taken into custody.
         e.   The location where the vehicle is being held.
         f.   The procedure to redeem the vehicle.
         g.   The procedure to contest the fact that the vehicle was improperly
removed or the reasonableness of the towing and daily storage fees
         h.   A form petition which the owner may file in person or by mail
with the specified Court which requests a hearing on the police agency’s
action.
         i.   A warning that failure to redeem the vehicle or to request a
hearing within twenty (20) days after the date of the notice may result in the
sale of the vehicle and the termination of all rights of the owner and the
secured party to the vehicle or the proceeds of the sale or to both the vehicle
and the proceeds.
   (c)   For vehicles towed pursuant to subsections (a)(1) through (7):
      (1)   The registered owner may contest the fact that the vehicle was
properly removed or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage
fees by requesting a hearing. A request for a hearing shall be made by filing a
petition with the Court specified in the notice within twenty (20) days after
the date of the notice. If the owner requests a hearing, the matter shall be
resolved after a hearing conducted pursuant to MCLA § 257.252(e) and (f). An
owner who requests a hearing may obtain release of the vehicle by posting a
towing and storage bond with the Court in an amount equal to the accrued towing
and storage fees. The owner of a vehicle who requests a hearing may obtain
release of the vehicle by paying the towing and storage fees instead of posting
the towing and storage bond. If the Court finds that the vehicle was not
properly removed, the police agency shall reimburse the owner of the vehicle
for the accrued towing and storage fees.
      (2)   If the owner does not request a hearing, he or she may obtain the
release of the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the
vehicle.
      (3)   If the owner does not redeem the vehicle or request a hearing
within twenty (20) days, the secured party may obtain the release of the
vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the vehicle prior to
the date of the sale.
      (4)   Not less than twenty (20) days after the disposition of the hearing
described in subsection (c)(3), or if a hearing is not held, not less than
twenty (20) days after the date of notice described in subsection (c)(3), the
police agency shall offer the vehicle for sale at a public sale unless the
vehicle is redeemed. The public sale shall be held pursuant to MCLA § 257.252
(g).
      (5)   If the ownership of a vehicle which has been removed under this
section cannot be determined either because of the condition of the vehicle
identification number or because a check with the records of the Secretary of
State does not reveal ownership, the police agency may sell the vehicle at
public sale pursuant to MCLA § 257.252(g) hereof, not less than thirty (30)
days after public notice of the sale has been published.
   (d)   For vehicles towed pursuant to subsection (a)(8):
      (1)   If the registered owner does not contest the immobilization or
impoundment of the vehicle, the owner may obtain the release of the vehicle by
paying the outstanding accrued parking charges, immobilization, towing and
storage fees.
      (2)   If the registered owner does not redeem the vehicle or request a
hearing within twenty (20) days, the secured party may obtain release of the
vehicle by paying the outstanding accrued parking charges, immobilization,
towing and storage fees.
      (3)   The registered owner may contest the immobilization or impoundment
of the vehicle, or the reasonableness of the immobilization, towing and daily
storage fees by requesting a hearing. A request for hearing shall be made by
filing a petition with the Court specified in the notice within twenty (20)
days after the date of the notice. The matter shall be resolved following a
hearing in the Court. A registered owner who requests a hearing may obtain
release of the vehicle by posting a bond or cash deposit in an amount equal to
the outstanding accrued parking charges, immobilization, towing and storage
fees.
      (4)   If the Court finds that the vehicle was not properly immobilized or
impounded, the Police Department shall reimburse the owner of the vehicle for
the accrued towing and storage charges and return the vehicle.
      (5)   If the Court finds that the vehicle was properly immobilized and
impounded, or if no hearing was requested, not less than twenty (20) days after
the notice described in subsection (b)(3) is sent, the Police Department shall
offer the vehicle at a public sale unless the vehicle is redeemed.
      (6)   A public sale shall be conducted in the following manner:
         a.   It shall be under the control of the Police Department.
         b.   It shall be open to the public and consist of open auction
bidding.
         c.   It shall be held not less than five (5) days after the public
notice of the sale has been published.
         d.   The public notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper
of general circulation within the county in which the vehicle was taken into
custody. The public notice shall give a description of the vehicle for sale and
shall state the time, date, and locations of the sale.
      (7)   The money received from the public sale of the vehicle shall be
applied in the following order of priority:
         a.   Outstanding accrued parking charges.
         b.   Towing and storage charges.
         c.   Expenses incurred by the City.
         d.   The remainder to the secured party, if any. If there is not a
secured party, remainder to the owner. If the remainder of the money is not
claimed by the secured party or owner within thirty (30) days after the sale,
it shall become the property of the City.
      (8)   If there are no reasonable bidders on the vehicle, the Police
Department may do one of the following things:
         a.   Turn the vehicle over to the towing firm to satisfy charges
against the vehicle.
         b.   Obtain title to the vehicle for the Police Department or the City
by doing both of the following:
            1.   Paying the towing and storage charges.
            2.   Applying for title to the vehicle.
         c.   Hold another public sale pursuant to subsection (d)(6) above.
      (9)   Within two (2) days, excluding Saturday, Sunday, and legal
holidays, after the disposition of the vehicle the Police Department shall do
both of the following:
         a.   Notify the Secretary of State of the disposition.
         b.   Cancel the entry into the law enforcement information network
described in subsection (b)(2).
(Ord. 2939, passed 2-11-1985; Ord. 3199, passed 3-23-1992; Ord. 3409, passed 2-
8-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Manner of conducting public sale, see MCLA 257.252g
§§ 28-39 – 28-42 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 28-43 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE BY PERSON UNDER 14 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of fourteen (14) years of
age to drive a motor vehicle upon any public highway in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-44 HALTING VEHICLE.
   No person shall halt any horse, team or other animal, or any wagon or other
vehicle, on any crossing or crosswalk within the City.
(Ord. 100, passed 5-28-1901)
§ 28-45 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall drive or propel any horse-drawn or motor vehicle, or motor-
driven cycle within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary
driveway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-46 DRIVING ON STREETS CLOSED FOR REPAIR AND THE LIKE.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
is closed to vehicular travel by reason of street construction, repair or other
reason, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or portion except
drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed
area, and then any said driver shall exercise care in driving upon any said
street or portion thereof; provided, that no provision of this section shall
operate to relieve any such driver from the responsibility of any damage caused
by his driving thereon.
(Ord. 849, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-47 DRIVING IN ZONE OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs and/or markings are erected indicating a zone of
quiet, no person in charge or control of any vehicle or any device connected
therewith shall make any excessive noise, unnecessarily race his motor, or open
the muffler on any vehicle, or permit such vehicle or any device thereon to
emit an unreasonable amount of noise.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956)
§ 28-48 DRIVING ON DIVIDED OR LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by leaving an
intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway and no vehicle shall park or be driven
over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier or section, except
through an opening in the physical barrier or dividing section or space or at a
crossover or intersection established by public authority. Crossovers on
limited access highways shall not be used except by such vehicles as provided
by State law, except by road service vehicles while going to or returning from
servicing a disabled vehicle and except as otherwise permitted by authorized
signs. ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle clearly marked and readily
recognizable as a vehicle used to assist disabled vehicles.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.644
§ 28-49 DRIVING VEHICLES INJURIOUS TO STREETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or propel upon or along any
street in the City of Flint, any traction engine or other vehicle the outer
surface of the wheels of which are corrugated steel, iron or other material
when weight of such engine or vehicle may be sufficient to injure such street
surface.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-50 DRIVING ON ROADWAY LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (a)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety, and on highways with
four or more lanes, said vehicle shall be driven within the extreme right-hand
lane except when overtaking and passing, but in no event shall cross the
centerline of the highway except where making a left turn.
   (b)   Upon a highway which is divided into three (3) lanes a vehicle shall
not be driven to the left of the center lane, except when making a left turn
and shall not be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is at
the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle
is proceeding and is sign-posted to give notice of such allocation.
   (c)   Official signs may be erected directing slow- moving traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-51 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle on a highway or a frozen public lake,
stream, pond or other place open to the general public including any area
designated for the parking of motor vehicles, in willful and wanton disregard
for the safety of persons or property.
   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2876, passed 5-23-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless driving, see MCLA 257.626
§ 28-52 CARELESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle upon a highway or frozen public lake,
stream or pond, or other place open to the general public, including any area
designated for the parking of motor vehicles, in a careless and negligent
manner but without wantonness or recklessness, so as to endanger or be likely
to endanger any person or property.
   A person who violates this section shall be guilty of a civil infraction.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1582, passed 8-22-1960; Ord. 2876, passed 5-
23-1983)
§ 28-53 VEHICLES TO BE DRIVEN ON RIGHT HALF OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   Upon all roadways off sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway except as follows:
   (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
   (b)   When the right half of the roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (c)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon.
   (d)   Upon a roadway designated and sign-posted for one-way traffic.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.634
§ 28-54 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONES.
   No vehicle at any time shall be driven through, upon or within a safety
zone.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956)
§ 28-55 SLOW OR HEAVY VEHICLES TO KEEP TO RIGHT IN SINGLE FILE.
   Slowly moving or heavily laden vehicles shall not be driven abreast upon any
highway, but one must follow behind the other and keep as near to the right-
hand curb as practicable.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-56 PASSING — VEHICLES PROCEEDING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.635
§ 28-57 SAME — ON LEFT PROCEDURE.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated:
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass at a safe distance to the left thereof, and when
safely clear of such overtaken vehicle shall take up a position as near the
right-hand edge of the main traveled portion of the highway as is practical.
   (b)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle. In every event
the overtaking vehicle must return to the right side of the roadway before
coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.636
§ 28-58 SAME — SAME — LIMITATIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of a two-lane
highway or in the center lane of a three-lane highway in overtaking and passing
another vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the left side or center
lane is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
   (a)   No vehicle shall in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any
other time be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest or a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where driver’s view along the highway is obstructed.
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel,
or when approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection or
railroad grade crossing.
      (3)   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or by a distinctive yellow centerline or other markings.
   (b)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.638, 257.639
§ 28-59 SAME — ON RIGHT.
   (a)   A driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding from the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right of a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four (4) or more lanes of moving traffic when such
movement can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon
the shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.637
§ 28-60 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (a)   All motor vehicles composing a funeral procession when going to any
place of burial shall have the right-of-way over all other vehicles, except
fire apparatus, ambulances and police patrol vehicles, at any street or highway
intersection within this City, and may proceed against traffic signs, or
signals, except on one-way streets; provided, that each vehicle in such funeral
procession shall have displayed on the front thereof a flag which shall be
white in color and upon which shall be printed, stamped or stained a purple
cross.
   (b)   Any person passing through a funeral procession of vehicles designated
as aforesaid, with a vehicle of any kind shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (c)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right hand edge of the roadway as practicable and follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practicable and safe.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.654
§ 28-61 ENTERING INTERSECTIONS.
   No person shall drive or propel any vehicle within the intersection or
crosswalk of two or more streets or highways until able to clear the
intersection and crosswalk on the exit side with his entire vehicle,
notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed, unless such
stop is required to make a lawful turn or to yield right-of-way to pedestrians
within the intersections.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-62 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTION.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway.
   (b)   When two vehicles enter an intersection at approximately the same
time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the
vehicle on the right.
   (c)   The foregoing rules are not applicable at through highways.
   (d)   The driver of any vehicle traveling at an unlawful speed shall forfeit
any right-of-way which he might otherwise have hereunder.
   (e)   Where signs bearing the message “yield right-of-way” are erected upon
the approach to an intersection, a driver approaching such sign shall slow to a
reasonable speed for existing conditions of traffic and visibility, yielding
the right-of-way to all traffic on the intersecting street which is so close as
to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.654
§ 28-63 RESTRICTIONS ON BACKING.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same into an intersection
or over a crosswalk thereof.
   (b)   The driver of any vehicle shall not back the same at any place unless
such movement can be made in safety.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1421, passed 1-27-1958)
§ 28-64 VEHICLE MOVING FROM CURB TO YIELD TO OTHER VEHICLES.
   A standing vehicle about to start or move away from the curb shall give
moving vehicles the right-of- way.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-65 DRAG RACING.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon any
highway, or any other place open to the general public, including any area
designated for the parking of motor vehicles, within this City, in a speed or
acceleration contest or for the purpose of making a speed record, whether from
a standing start or otherwise over a measured or unmeasured distance, or in a
drag race as herein defined.
   (b)   DRAG RACING means the operation of two or more vehicles from a point
side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-distance
each other over a common selected course or where timing is involved or where
timing devices are used in a competitive acceleration of speeds by
participating vehicles. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged as participants. The
operation of two or more vehicles either at speeds in excess of prima facie
lawfully established speeds or rapidly accelerating from a common standing
point to a speed in excess of such prima facie lawful speed is prima facie
evidence of drag racing and is unlawful.
   (c)   As provided by law, the Police Department may provide for the
immediate removal of a vehicle from public or private property to a place of
safekeeping at the expense of the registered owner of the vehicle when there is
reasonable cause to believe that the vehicle was used in the commission of a
crime including, but not limited to, a violation of this section.
   (d)   Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed ninety (90) days or by both
such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the Court, for each such
offense.
(Ord. 1805, passed 9-30-1964; Ord. 3016, passed 11-10-1986; Ord. 3795, passed
6-27-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.626
§ 28-65.1 MOVEMENT AND PARKING OF MOTOR VEHICLE ON AIRPORT PROPERTY.
   The City Administrator is hereby directed to have a study made by
appropriate officials under his direction, of the movement and parking of motor
vehicles on airport property lying generally between a line parallel with the
centerline of Bristol Road and a line 350 feet south of Bristol Road. If said
study results in a determination by the City Administrator that restrictions on
parking and the operation of motor vehicles should be enforced, the City
Administrator shall report the results of his investigation and shall recommend
to the City Council the type and nature of restrictions on the operation and
parking of motor vehicles which, in his opinion, will insure the greatest
safety and convenience of the persons using said premises for the operation and
parking of motor vehicles and pedestrian use. The proposed restrictions on the
operation and parking of motor vehicles, if not rejected by the City Council
within a reasonable length of time, shall become the official regulations for
the operation and parking of motor vehicles in said area. Suitable signs shall
be erected advising the nature of the restrictions so imposed. Thereafter
anyone operating or parking a motor vehicle in violation of these restrictions,
shall violate this Code by such conduct.
(Ord. 2144, passed 7-14-1969; Ord. 2328, passed 5-8-1972; Ord. 2611, passed 9-
12-1977)
ARTICLE III. TRUCK ROUTES AND BRIDGE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
§ 28-66 CERTAIN VEHICLES LIMITED TO TRUCK ROUTES; ROUTES ON FILE.
   No person shall drive or park, or cause to be driven or parked, any truck or
vehicle, the combined weight of which truck or vehicle, its cargo and occupants
shall exceed five tons, over or upon any street or highway of the City, except
such streets or highways as shall be designated as truck routes; and except
that these restrictions shall not apply to buses owned and operated by public,
private or parochial schools, church buses owned and operated by churches and
public transportation.
   (b)   Such streets or highways designated by ordinance as truck routes are
not included herein, but are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1349, passed 9-5-1956; Ord. 2869, passed 2-28-
1983; Ord. 3221, passed 11-9-1992)
§ 28-67 DESIGNATING TEMPORARY TRUCK ROUTES.
   In the event that any truck route be obstructed to the extent that, in the
opinion of the City Administrator, it shall be necessary to lay out a temporary
route for such time as the obstruction shall continue, he or she is authorized
so to do, providing that the temporary route shall be marked as such as soon as
practicable.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-68 LEAVING TRUCK ROUTES TO MAKE DELIVERIES.
   Trucks or vehicles or service vehicles carrying a load for delivery or
making a pickup or making a service call to a destination off the truck route
may leave the truck route at a point nearest the destination to make the
delivery, pickup or service call, and shall return to the truck route by the
most direct route available.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1349, passed 9-5-1956; Ord. 1859, passed 7-29-
1965; Ord. 2869, passed 2-28-1983)
§ 28-69 DUTY OF OPERATOR TO PERMIT WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; BRIDGE WEIGHTS ON FILE.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of any person who shall be driving, or in charge
or control of any truck which may at that time be upon any street in the City
other than a designated truck route, upon the demand of any police officer, to
proceed to any public or private scale available for the purpose of weighing
and determining whether the weight thereof is in excess of the weight limit
permitted by this article.
   (b)   Ordinances specifying bridge weight limitations are not set out herein
but are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
ARTICLE IV. SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 28-70 CAREFUL AND PRUDENT SPEED; SPEED LIMITS ON FILE.
   Any person driving a vehicle on a highway shall drive the same at a careful
and prudent speed not greater than nor less than is reasonable and proper,
having due regard to the traffic, surface and width of the highway and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a
highway in at a speed greater than will permit him to bring it to a stop within
the assured, clear distance ahead.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1850, passed 6-28-1965; Ord. 2376, passed 1-
15-1973)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2376 was passed as an emergency ordinance; therefore changes contained
within were not permanent in nature.
Statutory reference:
   Speed regulations, see MCLA 257.627
§ 28-71 MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT GENERALLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Subject to the provisions of §
28-70 and, except in those instances where a lower speed is specified in this
ordinance, it shall be prima facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive
the same on any highway, street, alley or thoroughfare at a speed not exceeding
the maximum speed as is indicated by signs posted along said highway, street,
alley or thoroughfare, but in any case when such speed would be unsafe it shall
not be lawful; and on any highway, street, alley or thoroughfare along which no
such speed limit signs are posted, it shall be prima facie lawful for the
driver of a vehicle to drive the same at a speed not exceeding 25 miles per
hour, but in any case when such speed would be unsafe it shall not be lawful.
   (b)   It shall be prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the
foregoing speed limitations.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1850, passed 6-28-1965; Ord. 2376, passed 1-
15-1973)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2376 was passed as an emergency ordinance; therefore changes contained
within were not permanent in nature.
§ 28-72 DUTY TO LOWER SPEED UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the foregoing limits
shall not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when approaching a
crossing, or intersection, when approaching and going around a curve, when
approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or
when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by
reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be decreased as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance or on
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1850, passed 6-28-1965; Ord. 2376, passed 1-
15-1973)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2376 was passed as an emergency ordinance; therefore changes contained
within were not permanent in nature.
§ 28-72.1 SPECIFICATIONS TO BE INCLUDED IN COMPLAINTS OF VIOLATIONS.
   In every charge of violation of this section, the complaint, also the
summons or notice to appear, shall specify the speed at which the defendant is
alleged to have driven, also the lawful speed applicable within the district or
at the location.
(Ord. 2376, passed 1-15-1973)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2376 was passed as an emergency ordinance; therefore changes contained
within were not permanent in nature.
§ 28-73 EFFECT UPON BURDEN OF PROOF IN CIVIL ACTIONS.
   The foregoing provisions of this section shall not be construed to relieve
the plaintiff in any civil action from the burden of proving negligence upon
the part of the defendant as the proximate cause of an accident.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1850, passed 6-28-1965; Ord. 2376, passed 1-
15-1973)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2376 was passed as an emergency ordinance; therefore changes contained
within were not permanent in nature.
ARTICLE V. TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 28-74 OBEDIENCE TO TURN SIGNS, BUTTONS AND THE LIKE; PROHIBITED TURNS ON
FILE.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign, and when authorized marks, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.650
§ 28-75 LEFT TURNS GENERALLY.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection
or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within the
intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said
driver, having so yielded and having given a signal when and as required by
this section, may make such left turn and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection from said opposite directions shall yield the
right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn. Provided, that at an
intersection at which a traffic signal is located, a driver intending to make a
left turn shall permit vehicles bound straight through in the opposite
direction which are awaiting a go signal to pass through the intersection
before making the turn.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1703, passed 1-14-1963)
§ 28-76 TURNS AT INTERSECTION GENERALLY.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as
follows:
   (a)   Both the approach for a right turn, and a right turn, shall be made as
close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (b)   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the
right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   (c)   Approach to a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection.
   (d)   A left turn from a one-way street into a two- way street shall be made
by passing to the right of the centerline of the street being entered upon
leaving the intersection.
   (e)   Where both streets or roadways are one- way, both the approach for a
left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the left-
hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1065, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 28-77 U-TURNS.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street listed in this section, and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic; provided, further a driver
shall not turn any vehicle around at any street intersection.
   (b)   No person shall reverse the direction of travel of any vehicle on any
street within the area bounded by Fifth Street on the south, Third Avenue on
the north, Harrison Street and Payne Street on the east, and Beach and Garland
Street on the west.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
ARTICLE VI. STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 28-78 ESTABLISHMENT OF LOADING ZONES.
   Any person may make application in writing for a loading zone space to the
Traffic Engineer on prescribed forms obtainable at the Traffic Engineering
Division. The Traffic Engineer shall have the authority to grant, refuse or
modify the application, and if granted, may at any time, further limit or
withdraw the permit at his discretion. The applicant upon receipt of the permit
for a loading zone, shall pay to the City Treasurer a service fee for the
installation of two designatory signs. The service fee is not refundable after
the installation is made event though the permit is withdrawn. A loading zone
shall not be established in an existing prohibited zone unless confined to a
recessed area. Said service fee shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956; Ord. 3410, passed 2-8-
1999)
§ 28-79 USE OF LOADING ZONES.
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a
commercially licensed vehicle for any purpose other than the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers and then only if it does not interfere with
the entrance of a commercial vehicle to the zone.
   (b)   No person shall stop, stand or park a commercially licensed vehicle in
a loading zone for any purpose other than the expeditious loading or unloading
of merchandise. The time of stopping in a loading zone of a commercial vehicle
for loading or unloading of merchandise shall not exceed thirty (30) minutes.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956)
§ 28-80 ESTABLISHMENT OF TAXICAB ZONES.
   Taxicab zones may be established and/or discontinued by the Traffic Engineer
at his discretion.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-81 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUS ZONES.
   Bus zones shall be located on the near side of intersecting streets. When in
the opinion of the Traffic Engineer a near-side zone would be dangerous or
greatly interfere with other traffic, he may order a far- side zone.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-82 USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB ZONES.
   (a)   Bus zones. The driver of a bus shall not stop or stand a bus upon any
street other than at a bus zone, except in compliance with other traffic
regulations that require stopping or standing. No person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle, other than a bus, in a bus zone, except for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers and then only if the stopping does not
impede or interfere with the entrance to or exit from the zone of any bus;
except, that parking shall not be prohibited in bus zones on City streets when
parking is otherwise tolerated on Sundays and the following holidays: New
Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas Day.
   (b)   Taxicab zones. The driver of a taxicab shall not stop, stand or park a
taxicab upon any street other than in a taxicab zone, except for the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers and then only if the stopping
does not impede or interfere with other lawful traffic. No person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle, other than taxicab, in a taxicab zone, except for the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers and then only if the stopping
does not impede or interfere with the loading, unloading or parking of a
taxicab.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956)
§ 28-83 OBSTRUCTING CROSSWALKS.
   No vehicle shall be stopped at any crosswalk on any paved street in a manner
as to obstruct the free passage upon such crosswalk, nor shall the same be
stopped at any crosswalk on any unpaved street for a longer period than may be
necessary to permit the occupants to alight or for persons to enter any such
vehicles.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-84 STOP AT RAILROAD CROSSING — REQUIRED WHEN STOP SIGN IN PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to come to a complete stop at
any railroad crossing where a stop sign has been erected by the City of Flint.
Said stop shall be made within not less than ten (10) feet of such railroad
tracks before traversing the such crossing.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-85 SAME — REQUIRED WHEN SIGNALS INDICATE APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   Whenever any person driving a motor vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing within the City of Flint and any clearly visible and positive signal
gives warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train or car, it shall be
unlawful for a driver of the vehicle to fail to bring the vehicle to a complete
stop before traversing the grade crossing.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-85.1 OVERTAKING OR MEETING STOPPED SCHOOL BUS DISPLAYING FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking or meeting any bus which has
stopped and is displaying two (2) alternately flashing red lights located at
the same level, or any Mass Transportation Authority (MTA) bus which has
stopped and is displaying two (2) supplemental simultaneously flashing lamps
located at the same level as authorized by MCLA § 257.698a and signs on the
back and front of the bus identifying the bus as one that is transporting
students shall bring the vehicle to a full stop at least ten (10) feet from the
bus and shall not proceed until the bus resumes motion or the visual signals
are no longer actuated. The driver of the bus, before resuming motion, shall
deactivate flashing lights and permit stopped traffic to proceed and shall when
resuming motion proceed in such a manner as to allow congested traffic to
disperse by keeping the bus as near to the right side of the road as can be
done with safety.
      (2)   Passengers crossing the road upon being discharged from a bus shall
cross in front of the stopped bus.
      (3)   At an intersection where traffic is controlled by an officer or a
traffic stop-and-go signal, a vehicle need not be brought to a full stop before
passing a stopped bus, but may proceed past the bus at a speed not greater than
is reasonable and proper and in no event greater than ten (10) miles an hour
with due caution for the safety of passengers being received or discharged from
the bus.
      (4)   Signs giving notice of this section shall be posted upon or at the
entrances to the City of Flint and shall be sufficiently legible as to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person.
   No bus driver shall stop his bus for the purpose of receiving or discharging
passengers unless the bus in clearly visible in its stopped position to
approaching or overtaking drivers of vehicles for a distance of at least five
hundred (500) feet.
   The driver of a vehicle upon any highway which has been divided into two (2)
roadways by leaving an intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or clearly
indicated dividing sections so constructed so as to impede vehicular traffic,
need not stop upon meeting a bus which has stopped across the dividing space,
barrier or section.
   In any proceeding for a violation of this section, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the citation, complaint or warrant was in violation of
this section, together with proof that the defendant named in the citation,
complaint or warrant was, at the time of the violation, the registered owner of
the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a presumption that the registered
owner of the vehicle was the driver of the vehicle at the time of violation.
(Ord. 2582, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 3217, passed 9-23-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Vehicular traffic hazard; front and rear warning lamps, MCLA 257.698a
§ 28-86 PARKING OVER 24 HOURS ON ANY STREET PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle, recreational vehicle and/or any camping
equipment, as defined in §
50-105 of this Code of ordinances, on any street for a period of time longer
than twenty-four (24) hours.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2909, passed 4-23-1984)
§ 28-87 PARKING SO AS TO LEAVE LESS THAN 16 FEET OF ROADWAY AVAILABLE FOR
TRAFFIC PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, highway or
alley in such manner or under such conditions as to leave available space less
than sixteen (16) feet of width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic; except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when necessary in obedience of traffic regulations
or traffic signs or signals or a police officer.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-88 PARALLEL PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of travel and with the
curb side wheels of the vehicle within twelve (12) inches of the edge of the
roadway or curb; except, that on one-way streets, where parking is permitted,
any vehicle may be parked on either side headed in the direction of travel.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-89 STANDING IN FRONT OF ENTRANCE OR EXIT TO THEATERS, CHURCHES AND THE
LIKE.
   No vehicle shall be permitted to stand in front of the entrance or exit of
any theater, church, or building designated to be a building in which a large
number of people are accustomed to gather, except for the purpose of stopping
to take on or discharge passengers or merchandise.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-90 STOPPING OR PARKING AT OR NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (a)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate by proper signs places in which the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual
delay to traffic.
   (b)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2215, passed 5-18-1970)
§ 28-91 MOVING VEHICLES FROM CURB UNDER EMERGENCY CONDITIONS ON POLICE ORDERS.
   Any person driving or operating a vehicle who shall stand the same at the
curb shall move such vehicle from such curb should emergency conditions exist
and at the order of any police officer.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-92 APPLICABILITY OF NO-PARKING REGULATIONS TO STREETS HAVING RECESSED
SIDES.
   Unless otherwise regulated, no-parking regulations shall not apply where a
side street has been recessed by proper authority for the purpose of permitting
parking. No vehicle shall be parked at an angle in any recessed portion of a
street except in those specified cut back areas where approved and authorized
for angle parking by official regulations.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2692, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 28-93 PARKING ON PARKWAY.
   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in the parkway, being that portion
of the street between the edge of the roadway and nearest street lot line,
unless otherwise provided and authorized by the official regulations, and then
parallel parking only will be permitted, except in those specified cut back
areas where approved and authorized by the official regulations. Except that
parallel parking shall be allowed upon the western side of that portion of
Branch Road lying between Carpenter Road and Layton Boulevard.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2666, passed 10-9-1978; Ord. 2692, passed 2-
12-1979; Ord. 3130, passed 3-26-1990)
§ 28-93.1 POLICE VEHICLE ZONES — ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   Police vehicle zones may be established or discontinued by the Traffic
Engineer at his discretion. Each zone shall be for one or more official,
clearly marked police vehicle:
   (a)   A clearly marked police vehicle is one which displays the insignia of
the police agency upon the body of the car; or
   (b)   An unmarked vehicle which displays a sign indicating the car’s
occupant is on official business. The sign must indicate that it was issued by
a Police Department within the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 3058, passed 6-27-1988; Ord. 3248, passed 9-13-1993)
§ 28-93.2 SAME — USE BY OTHER THAN MARKED POLICE VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   The driver of a marked police vehicle is permitted to park that vehicle at
the curb in a clearly marked parking space established for a police vehicle. No
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, other than a marked police vehicle,
in a police vehicle zone. Use of the zone shall not be limited to nonemergency
police duties.
(Ord. 3058, passed 6-27-1988)
§ 28-93.3 PARKING ON CERTAIN PROPERTY RESTRICTED TO CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The following area is reserved for parking by the City of Flint employees
whose vehicles display a proper employee identification sticker authorized by
the City Administrator of the City of Flint: A triangular shaped area bounded
by Stevens Street on the West, East Fifth Street on the north and the I-475
Freeway on the east and south.
(Ord. 2675, passed 10-23-1978)
§ 28-94 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES; PARKING
ZONES ON FILE.
   (a)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or official traffic-
control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         b.   On a sidewalk;
         c.   Within an intersection;
         d.   On a crosswalk;
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30)
feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the Traffic Engineer indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         h.   On any railroad tracks;
         i.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         j.   Within five hundred (500) feet where fire apparatus has stopped
in answer to a fire alarm; or
         k.   Within five hundred (500) feet of any traffic accident or other
emergency situation when police officers are in attendance, provided that motor
buses, for the purpose of taking on or discharging passengers, may be stopped
in the places designated as bus zones, or on the highway side of a vehicle
illegally parked in a legally designated bus loading zone.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway;
         b.   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant;
         c.   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         d.   Within thirty (30) feet upon approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign or traffic- control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         e.   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance of any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy-five (75) feet of such entrance when properly sign-posted; or
         f.   At any place when official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing;
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
         c.   In any place or in any manner so as to block or hamper the
immediate use of and immediate egress from any emergency exit or exits
conspicuously marked as such of buildings;
         d.   In any place or in any manner so as to block or hamper the
immediate use of and immediate egress from any fire escape conspicuously marked
as such providing an emergency means of egress from any building.
      (4)   A vehicle shall not be parked in a parking space clearly identified
by an official sign as being reserved for use by handicappers, which is on
public property or private property open to use by the public, unless the
vehicle has identification issued by the Michigan Secretary of State or similar
identification issued by another State properly displayed, indicating that the
vehicle has been certified as being used by a handicapper.
         Any person who is the owner or managing agent for private property
available for public use may apply to the Department of Public Works, Building
and Safety Inspections Division for help in establishing posted handicapper
parking spaces.
   (b)   The Flint Police Department may provide for the immediate removal of a
vehicle parked in a posted tow-away zone in violation of this section to a
place of safekeeping at the expense of the registered owner of the vehicle,
pursuant to §
28-38 of the Code of the City of Flint.
   (c)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2215, passed 5-18-1970; Ord. 2645, passed 5-
22-1978; Ord. 3037, passed 6-8-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage-hauling vehicles, parking of, see §
30-5
   Parking in:
      Evacuation areas during civil defense test, see §
14-4
      Entrance or exit of buildings, see §§
19-100,
19-102
   Vehicles, leaving in street, see §
42-12
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.674
§ 28-94.1 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF § 28-94(a)(4).
   Violation of the provisions of §
28-94(a)(4) of the Code of the City of Flint shall be a civil infraction, and
for any person being found responsible for such a civil infraction a fine shall
be imposed in the minimum amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or the
maximum fine allowable by State law unless the fine is suspended or waived in
the discretion of the Court due to a grave injustice.
(Ord. 2733, passed 8-13-1979; Ord. 3037, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 28-95 RESERVED.
§ 28-96 EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN PERSONS.
   Any vehicle displaying identification issued by the Michigan Secretary of
State or similar identification issued by another State indicating that such
vehicle has been certified as being used by a handicapper shall be entitled to
parking for such motor vehicle free of charge in off-street lots administered
by the City of Flint or the Downtown Development Authority and on any of the
streets or parts of streets, including metered and time limit areas, but not in
prohibited parking areas, in accordance with the limitations, restrictions and/
or prohibitions placed on parking by this Code or other ordinance or by State
law.
(Ord. 2005, passed 10-13-1967; Ord. 3037, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 28-97 PARKING OR STANDING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any highway for the principal
purpose of:
   (a)   Displaying it for sale or advertising display.
   (b)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-98 PARKING AND OPERATION ON BOARD OF EDUCATION PROPERTY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of resolutions adopted by the Board of Education
at regular meetings held on July 7, 1971, February 9, 1972 and December 1,
1982, no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle at any of the following
locations, except when necessary to avoid conflicts with other traffic or in
compliance with the direction of a police officer, at any place where signs are
posted prohibiting parking; and provided further, that no person shall park any
vehicle in any place where signs designate reserved parking unless there is
exhibited on the vehicle a permit authorizing parking in reserved areas; and
provided further, that no motor vehicle shall be operated at any such location
at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour or in violation of any
traffic sign, light or other traffic-control device erected at such locations,
or in violation of the traffic ordinances of the City of Flint.
   (a)   Bounded on the south by East Court Street, on the west by Crapo
Street, on the north by East Kearsley Street on the east by Gilkey Creek.
   (b)   The east twenty-six acres of Lot 1, Section 5 plat of Section 2, 3, 4,
5, 6 and 8 of the Reserve at and near the Grand Traverse on the Flint River,
except a parcel described as: Beginning at a point on the westerly line of the
Board of Education property which is north 64 degrees 25 minutes 30 seconds
west along the centerline of Mackin Road 497.07 feet and north 41 degrees 11
minutes east along the westerly line of Board of Education property 1,918.49
feet from the southwest corner of the recorded plat of Civic Manor; thence
continuing along the westerly line north 41 degrees 26 minutes 15 seconds east
515.41 feet to the northerly line of the Board of Education property; thence
south 45 degrees 31 minutes 45 seconds east along the northerly line 40.06
feet; thence south 41 degrees 26 minutes 15 seconds west 513.28 feet; thence
north 48 degrees 33 minutes 45 seconds west 40.00 feet to the place of
beginning; also part of Lot 1, Section 5, plat of Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8
of the Reserve at and near the Grand Traverse on the Flint River beginning
north 64 degrees 25 minutes 30 seconds west 597.07 feet and north 41 degrees 11
minutes east 31.15 feet from the southwest corner of Civic Manor; thence north
64 degrees 25 minutes 30 seconds west 41.53 feet; thence north 41 degrees 11
minutes east 513.18 feet; thence north 64 degrees 22 minutes 30 seconds west
354.15 feet; thence south 32 degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds west 38.35 feet;
thence north 64 degree 37 minutes 30 seconds west 130 feet; thence south 32
degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds west 460.25 feet, thence north 64 degrees 25
minutes 30 seconds west 307.19 feet; thence north 42 degrees 05 minutes 45
seconds east 1,162.35 feet; thence south 47 degrees 54 minutes 15 seconds east
360 feet; thence north 42 degrees 5 minutes 45 seconds east 547 feet; thence
south 47 degrees 54 minutes 15 seconds east 344.14 feet; thence south 41
degrees 26 minutes 15 seconds west 1,794.12 feet to the place of beginning,
Township 7 North, Range 6 East. Also beginning at the intersection of the
northerly line of Mallery Street and the easterly line of Dayton Heights,
according to the recorded plat thereof, recorded in Liber 9 of plats on page 7,
Genesee County, Michigan, records; thence south 47 degrees 48 minutes east 360
feet; thence north 42 degrees 12 minutes east 847 feet; thence north 47 degrees
48 minutes west to the easterly line of Dayton Heights, as recorded; thence
southwesterly along the easterly line of Dayton Heights, as recorded, to the
point of beginning, containing approximately seven acres, and being part of Lot
1, Section 5 of plats of Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the reserve at and
near the Grand Traverse on the Flint River. Also part of Lots 50, 51, 52 and 53
of the Thornton Subdivision, according to the plat thereof as recorded in Liber
6 of plats, page 24, Genesee County Records, described as: Beginning at the
northeast corner of Lot 50; thence north 87 degrees 23 minutes west 36.01 feet
along the north line of Lot 50; thence south one degree 02 minutes west 196.10
feet parallel to the east line of such lot; thence south 25 degrees 23 minutes
30 seconds west 173.09 feet to a point on the southerly line of Lot 53; thence
south 46 degrees 17 minutes east 37.92 feet along the southerly line of Lot 53
to a point that is north 46 degrees 17 minutes west 108.16 feet from the
southwest corner of Lot 53; thence north 25 degrees 23 minutes 30 seconds east
175.59 feet; thence northeasterly 17.52 feet along a curve to the left having a
radius of 1,096.28 feet to a point on the east line of Lot 53; point being
southerly 32.72 feet from the northeast corner of Lot 53; thence north 1 degree
02 minutes east 202.53 feet along the east line of Lots 53, 52, 51 and 50 to
the point of beginning.
   (c)   Bounded on the south by Torrey Road, on the west by Hammerberg Road,
on the north by Swartz Creek and on the east by Brook Street.
   (d)   A parcel of land lying north of West Carpenter Road for a depth of
1,430 feet, adjacent and west of Powers Catholic High School and east of
Fleming Road extended north of West Carpenter Road.
   (e)   Bounded on the south by Pierson Road, on the west by Detroit Street,
on the north by Mott Avenue and on the east by Harvard Street.
   (f)   Bounded on the south by McClellan Street, on the west by Essex Street
extended, on the north by Pasadena Avenue and on the east by Buick Street.
   (g)   Bounded on the south by Barbara Drive, on the west by Oxley Drive, on
the north by Janice Drive extended, and on the east by Fleming Road.
   (h)   Bounded on the south by Berkley Street, on the west by Milbourne
Avenue, on the north by Mackin Road and on the east by Chevrolet Avenue.
   (i)   Bounded on the south by Montana Avenue, on the west by Franklin
Avenue, on the north by Utah Avenue and on the east by Vernon Avenue extended.
   (j)   Bounded on the south by Hemphill Road, on the west by Camden Avenue,
on the north by Ingleside Avenue and on the east by Grand Traverse.
   (k)   Bounded on the south by Brown Street, on the west by Brabyn Avenue, on
the north by Corunna road, and on the east by Downey Street.
   (l)   Bounded on the south by East Kearsley Street, on the east by Decker
Street, on the north by Robert T. Longway Boulevard west to Forest Street, on
the west by Forest Street south to Mathews Street, on the north by Mathews
Street west to Crapo Street, on the west by Crapo Street south to Manning
Court, on the north by Manning Court west to Avon Street, on the west by Avon
Street south to East Kearsley Street.
   (m)   Bounded on the south by Lapeer Road, on the east by Averill Avenue and
on the north by the I-69 expressway right-of-way and which is more particularly
described as follows: Part of Section 16, T7N, R7E, described as follows:
Commencing at a point on the centerline of Lapeer Road 40 feet west of the
north and south quarter line of said section and running thence north 2 degrees
06 minutes 46 seconds west 50 feet for a point of beginning; thence north 2
degrees 06 minutes 46 minutes west 3 feet; thence northerly along a tangent
curve to the right having a radius of 1,035 feet a distance of 523.86 feet;
thence north 26 degrees 53 minutes 14 seconds east 199.31 feet; thence
northerly along a tangent curve to the left having a radius of 1,352.5 feet a
distance of 554.36 feet; thence south 88 degrees 08 minutes west parallel to
the centerline of Lapeer Road 539.76 feet; thence south 2 degrees 06 minutes 46
seconds west 1,256.60 feet; thence north 88 degrees 08 minutes east 215.88
feet; thence south 2 degrees 06 minutes 46 seconds east 1,256.60 feet to the
place of beginning, except that part of said above described premises lying
north of a line which is 103 feet south of, measured at right angles parallel
to the survey line of the eastbound roadway of Highway M-78 relocated.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1468, passed 1-19-1959; Ord. 2303, passed 12-
27-1971; Ord. 2308, passed 1-17-1972; Ord. 2320, passed 3-27-1972; Ord. 2573,
passed 12-13-1976; Ord. 2865, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 28-98.1 OPERATION AND PARKING AT MOTT COMMUNITY COLLEGE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of MSA § 9.2660 and pursuant to the provisions of
a resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees of Mott Community College at a
regular meeting held on March 22, 1971, no person shall stop, stand or park any
vehicle on property owned by the Mott Community College lying within the area
bounded by Court Street on the south, Robert T. Longway Boulevard on the north,
property owned by St. Joseph’s Hospital and Woodside Church on the east and
property owned by the City Board of Education on the west, except when
necessary to avoid conflicts with other traffic or in compliance with the
direction of a police officer, at any place where signs are posted prohibiting
parking; and provided further, that no person shall park any vehicle in any
place where signs designate reserved parking unless there is exhibited on the
vehicle a permit authorizing parking in reserved area; and provided further,
that no motor vehicle shall be operated on such property at a speed in excess
of fifteen (15) miles per hour, or in violation of any traffic sign, light or
other traffic- control device erected at such location, or in other violation
of the traffic ordinances of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2292, passed 11-8-1971; Ord. 2308, passed 12-27-1971; Ord. 2573, passed
12-13-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of vehicles on school property, see MCLA 257.961
§ 28-98.2 OPERATION, STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING IN PARKING AREAS OF
SHOPPING CENTER.
   Upon the request of either the owner or person in charge of a shopping
center, as defined in Act 235 of the Public Acts of 1969, being MSA §§ 9.2641
through 9.2643, the City shall install such signs or other traffic-control
devices as it deems necessary to control the movement and parking of motor
vehicles at said shopping center and no other person shall operate, stop, stand
or park any motor vehicle on said property contrary to such signs or other
traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 2550, passed 3-22-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Control of traffic in parking areas, see MCLA 257.941 et seq.
§ 28-99 SIGNALS ON STARTING, STOPPING OR TURNING; EQUIPMENT OF CERTAIN
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle upon a street or highway in the City of
Flint, before starting, stopping or turning from a direct line shall first see
that such movement can be made in safety and shall give a signal as required by
this section.
   (b)   The signal herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm in the manner herein specified, or by a mechanical or electrical signal
device which conveys an intelligible signal or warning to another driver
approaching from the rear, except as otherwise provided in subsection (c).
      Whenever the signal is given by means of the hand and arm, the driver
shall indicate his intention to start, stop or turn by extending the hand and
arm horizontally from and beyond the left side of the vehicle.
   (c)   Any commercial motor vehicle other than those in transit from a
manufacturer to a dealer, in use on a street or highway in the City of Flint
shall be equipped with, and required signal shall be given by, a signal lamp or
lamps or mechanical signal device when the distance from the center of the top
of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body, cab or load of the
commercial motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or load
thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter measurement shall apply to any single
vehicle, also to any combination of vehicles.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-100 EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS AND THE LIKE. 
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk area extending across an alleyway and upon entering the roadway shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the highway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-101 ENTERING THROUGH HIGHWAYS; DESIGNATED THROUGH STREETS ON FILE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop as required by this ordinance at the
entrance of a through highway or at an intersection where a stop sign has been
erected and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered
the intersection from said through highway, or which are approaching so closely
from the through highway as to constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver,
having so yielded, may proceed, and the drivers of all other vehicles
approaching the intersection on said through highway shall yield the right-of-
way to the vehicle so proceeding into or across the through highway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-102 UNATTENDED VEHICLES; PARKING ON GRADE.
   (a)   No person shall leave a motor vehicle, except a commercial motor
vehicle, unattended on any street, alley, used car lot, or unattended parking
lot, without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key
and taking it with him or her; provided, however, that any violation of these
provisions shall not mitigate the offense of stealing such motor vehicle, nor
shall such violation be used to effect a recovery in any civil action for theft
of the motor vehicle, or the insurance thereon, or have any other bearing in
any civil action.
      Whenever any police officer of the City of Flint shall find any vehicle
standing in violation of the foregoing provision, such police officer is
authorized and directed to issue a traffic summons for the violation and then
remove therefrom the keys left therein and deliver the same to the Officer in
Charge of the Patrol Division at the Police Station, or to impound said
vehicle, at the direction of the Commanding Officer, in the event that the
ignition is left in the unlocked position with no keys.
   (b)   No person having control or charge of a motor vehicle shall allow such
vehicle to stand on any highway unattended without first effectively setting
the brakes thereon and when standing upon any grade without turning the front
wheels of such vehicle to the curb or side of the highway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1640, passed 6-19-1961)
§ 28-103 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle within the setback
area of any property used for residential purposes, except upon a driveway
designed for such purpose or otherwise permitted by law. For the purpose of
this chapter, SETBACK AREA shall be as defined in zoning regulations of the
City of Flint.
   No vehicle shall be parked or permitted to remain upon private property
without the express or implied consent, authorization, or ratification of the
owner, occupant, lessee, agent or trustee of such property. Complaints for
violation of this paragraph shall be made by the owner, occupant, lessee, agent
or trustee of the property.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2038, passed 3-13-1968; Ord. 2587, passed 1-
24-1977)
§ 28-104 PARKING IN DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a private motor vehicle upon
the premises of a drive-in restaurant and fail to stop and park the vehicle in
an area designated for parking if there is an accessible parking space of
adequate size available.
§ 28-105 PRIMA FACIE RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, in any proceeding for the violation of
parking provisions, the registration plates displayed on any motor vehicle
shall constitute a prima facie presumption that the owner of the motor vehicle
was the person who parked or placed the motor vehicle at the point where the
violation occurred.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
ARTICLE VII. PARKING METERS
§ 28-106 INSTALLATION; LOCATIONS ON FILE.
   Whenever by reason of traffic congestion or other cause, the public safety
is imperiled, the convenience of the public cannot be served, and traffic
regulations cannot be adequately enforced without the assistance to be secured
through the installation and maintenance of parking meters, such parking meters
or parking devices may be installed under and in accordance with the provisions
of §
28-2.2. Notice of parking reservation and the limited parking shall be given by
the Traffic Engineer by paint or distinguishing color or signs or devices of
uniform character indicating the distances, place and space. No person shall
park a vehicle in violation of such limitation, restriction or prohibition. The
Traffic Engineer shall also provide for the erection of uniform signs or the
painting of curbs, giving notice thereon of the parking reservations and the
limited parking permitted.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968; Ord. 2692, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 28-107 SAME — RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTALLATION; MAINTENANCE, OPERATIONS,
ENFORCEMENT AND THE LIKE.
   The Downtown Development Authority (DDA) shall provide for the installation,
regulation, control, operation and use of the parking devices (inclusive of
mobile handheld parking timing devices) and the enforcement of parking for
which such parking devices are installed, provided for in this article and
shall maintain such devices in good working condition; notwithstanding the
foregoing or any other section of this Ordinance, if the DDA has not installed,
on or before June 30, 2012, a parking meter system substantially similar to the
Luke II multi-space pay station manufactured by Digital Payment Technology for
the following streets:
   (a)   Saginaw Street from Union/Water Streets South to 7th Street;
   (b)   7th Street from Beach Street East to Harrison Street;
   (c)   5th Street from Beach Street East to Wallenberg Street;
   (d)   4th Street from Alley East to Brush Alley;
   (e)   3rd Street from Beach Street East to Brush Alley;
   (f)   2nd Street from Buckham Alley East to Brush Alley; and
   (g)   W. Kearsley from Buckham Alley to E. Kearsley to exit for Kearsley
Street Parking Lot;
   the authority for parking enforcement granted to the DDA in this ordinance
shall automatically terminate and be granted to the City of Flint Police
Department.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968; Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3724, passed 7-28-2008; Ord. 3801,
passed 9-12-2011)
§ 28-108 LOCATION GENERALLY; METER SIGNAL.
   Such parking devices when installed shall be placed upon the curb or
sidewalk alongside of or next to parking device zones to be designated as
provided. Each of said parking devices shall be so set as to show or display a
signal that the parking space alongside of same is or is not occupied.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-109 MARKING OF PARKING SPACES; PARKING ACROSS SPACE MARKINGS PROHIBITED.
   The Traffic Engineering Division shall place lines or marks on the sidewalk
or on the streets above and alongside of each parking device, to designate the
parking zone for which said timing device is to be used and each vehicle
parking alongside said device shall park within the lines or marks as are
established. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line or
mark, or to park said vehicle in such way that the same shall not be fully
within the area so designated by the line or markings.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-110 LOADING ZONES.
   The Traffic Engineering Division is authorized to establish and maintain
loading zones and to omit parking devices for such loading zones, if it should
find it advisable and necessary from the standpoint of safety traffic
conditions and for the conduct of business and use of property by the abutting
property owner or his lessees or assigns; provided, that no vehicle may remain
in a loading zone for a period of time greater than is necessary to load or
unload either passenger or property; provided further, that the time zone
spaces where such parking devices have been installed and are supplemented with
loading zone signs may be used for the loading and unloading of property during
the hours specified on such signs. The provisions for loading zones are in
addition to and not in derogation of regulations adopted in pursuance of
provisions of this Code or other ordinances.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968; Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3727, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 28-110.1 DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (DDA) DISTRICT; ENFORCEMENT; METERING
IN DESIGNATED AREAS; SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS.
   (a)   The downtown district shall be defined, for the purpose of this
section, as the area under the authority of the DDA, as set forth in §
2-126 of the Flint City Code. The DDA shall be empowered to enforce and
administer the entire parking system, inclusive of any and all violations of
the City of Flint parking ordinances and/or regulations contained in this
article or any other part of the Code of the City of Flint, and all parking
devices, as defined in this chapter, within the district.
   (b)   No vehicle, occupied or not, shall be parked or stationary in any way
in the downtown district for more than 2 (two) continuous hours between 5:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m., except for Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays;
notwithstanding the foregoing, City of Flint residents shall not be subject to
either the 2 or 3 hour parking restrictions set forth above in this article if
they park within 100 feet of the address listed on their driver’s license,
voter’s registration and/or State of Michigan identification card.
   (c)   Those who violate the parking restriction described in subparagraph
(b) above shall be required to pay a fine of (i) $15.00 (fifteen) dollars in
calendar year 2008, (ii) $20.00 (twenty) dollars in calendar year 2009, and
(iii) $25.00 (twenty-five) dollars in calendar year 2010, payable to the DDA,
as designated on the face of the citation. The amount of the citation may be
changed from time to time by resolution of City Council.
   (d)   The DDA shall be sole collector of any revenue derived from parking
within the DDA District.
   (e)   The DDA may install parking devices, inclusive of meters or other
similar devices, in the parking areas described in subparagraph (b)(1) above
with charges not to exceed $2.00 (two) dollars per hour of use (the “not to
exceed” charges shall be adjusted annually in accordance with changes in the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Indexes) with a maximum meter
time of three hours and the depositing of additional coins shall not have the
effect of extending the maximum parking time as stated on the parking device.
(Ord. 2095, passed 11-11-1968; Ord. 3109, passed 8-14-1989; Ord. 3394, passed
2-8-1999; Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3727, passed 8-11-2008; Ord. 3802,
passed 9-12-2011)
§ 28-111 DETERMINATION OF LENGTH OF PARKING TIME; VIOLATIONS.
   In order to determine the length of time any vehicle has been parked in any
zone, a parking sign shall be erected on the sidewalk designating the time
limit for parking in the area so designated; and the DDA shall use parking
devices allowed under this article to determine the length of parking time and
whether a violation has occurred under this article and/or the Code of the City
of Flint.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968; Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3727, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 28-112 PARKING BEYOND TIME LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, who is the driver, owner or person in
charge of a vehicle, to permit such vehicle to remain or be placed or to place
such vehicle in any parking zone where such device is displaying a signal
showing that such vehicle shall have already parked beyond the period of time
fixed by this ordinance for such parking zone.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-113 CITATION OF VIOLATORS.
   It shall be the duty of the City of Flint DDA to take the location of where
any vehicle is parked in violation of this article and/or the Code of the City
of Flint, and also the license number of such vehicle, the time and date of
such violation, the make of such vehicle, and to give notice of violation to
the owner, manager or driver of such vehicle as provided in this article.
(Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3725, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 28-114 VEHICLE PARKED IN VIOLATION DEEMED NUISANCE; IMPOUNDMENT; COLLECTION
OF PROCEEDS.
   A vehicle parked or occupying any portion of the street in violation of the
terms of this article is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be impounded
pursuant to Michigan law. The DDA shall collect all proceeds of such
impoundments.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968; Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3725, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 28-115 PROCEDURE IN PROSECUTING VIOLATORS.
   In all cases of parking violations, either the registered owner or the
operator of such vehicle may be proceeded against by complaint and warrant in a
Court of competent jurisdiction which shall be in addition to the right to
imprisonment heretofore give, and the registered owner of the vehicle at the
time of the violation shall be presumed to be a violator as well as the vehicle
itself and the actual operator thereof.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-115.1 IMPOUNDMENT/ IMMOBILIZATION DEVICES.
   (a)   The owner of any vehicle who has failed to satisfy or answer, in the
manner provided by law, six or more parking violation notices or citations for
illegal parking, may subject that vehicle to impoundment from public or private
property by or at the direction of the DDA.
   (b)   No vehicle may be immobilized or impounded unless the registered owner
of such vehicle has been previously notified by the DDA, its designated
representative or the 68th District Court Clerk that the owner’s vehicle(s) may
be subject to impoundment due to the owner’s failure to answer or satisfy six
or more parking tickets.
   (c)   This preimmobilization/impoundment notice to the registered owner
shall provide that the owner must contact the DDA in writing within 14 days of
the date of the notice to request a hearing on the issue of whether the
registered owner of a vehicle has accrued six or more parking tickets, which
such owner has failed to satisfy or answer in the manner provided by law.
   (d)   A hearing shall be scheduled at the 68th District Court within 14 days
of the registered owner’s written request for the hearing. The 68th District
Court Clerk shall notify the DDA, or the designated representative, and the
owner of all such hearings immediately upon such hearing being scheduled.
   (e)   Upon the conclusion of the pre- immobilization/impoundment hearing,
the 68th District Court Clerk shall notify the DDA or the designated
representative of the DDA of the determination made at the hearing. If the
determination is that the registered owner did not accrue six or more parking
tickets which the owner failed to satisfy or answer in the manner provided by
law, then the DDA or the designated representative shall cease and desist
immobilization/impoundment efforts on the outstanding parking tickets and the
registered owner included in the determination. If the determination is that
the registered owner did accrue six or more parking tickets which the owner
failed to satisfy or answer in the manner provided by law, the DDA or the
designated representative may proceed forthwith with immobilization and
impoundment efforts on vehicles owned by the registered owner.
   (f)   Any vehicle impounded under this section may remain impounded until
such time as all outstanding parking violation notices or citations have been
satisfied or answered, in the manner provided by law, and all towing and
storage charges associated with the impoundment of the vehicle have been paid
by the owner of the vehicle or the owner’s agent.
(Ord. 2841, passed 6-28-1982; Ord. 3199, passed 3-23-1992; Ord. 3694, passed 7-
9-2007; Ord. 3721, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 28-115.2 SAME — INTERFERENCE; REMOVAL OF DEVICE.
   No person shall willfully interfere with the removal of any vehicle,
pursuant to §
28-115.1, by or at the direction of the Police Department.
   No person shall remove or attempt to remove any impounded vehicle from
storage, except in accordance with the provisions of §
28-115.1.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2841, passed 6-28-1982)
§ 28-116 USE OF SLUGS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this ordinance to deposit or cause
to be deposited in any parking device a slug or other metal as a substitute for
coins of the denomination of the United States.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-117 DEFACING, OPENING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this ordinance for any person not so
authorized to deface, injure, tamper, open or willfully break, destroy or
impair the usefulness of any parking device installed under the terms of this
ordinance, or aid and abet in doing the same.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-118 COLLECTION OF COINS FROM THE METERS.
   It shall be the duty of the City of Flint DDA to designate an individual to
make regularly scheduled collections of the money, tokens, or other such items
deposited in parking devices. It shall be the duty of such person so designated
to collect all such items and deliver same to the DDA or direct to a designated
bank in accordance with the regulations to be prescribed by the DDA.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968; Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3722, passed 7-28-2008)
§ 28-119 USE OF METER RECEIPTS.
   The coins to be deposited as provided in this article are levied under
police authority as a regulation of City traffic, and for the purpose of
providing additional revenue to the City of Flint DDA to continue to revitalize
the downtown district.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968; Ord. 3694, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 3722, passed 7-28-2008)
ARTICLE VIII. TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 28-120 USE OF DEVICES AUTHORIZED.
   To assist in the direction and handling of traffic, the Traffic Engineering
Division may install and use raised safety zones and such other signals and
devices as signs, lights, lines and the like, which to the Traffic Engineer
seem advisable.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2095, passed 11-11-1968)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic signs, signals and markings, see MCLA 257.608 et seq.
§ 28-121 INJURING OR REMOVAL OF DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact, alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device, any
railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia, thereon or
any other part thereof.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Injuring traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal, see MCLA 257.616
§ 28-122 OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES.
   (a)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device or sign, applicable thereto placed in accordance with
the ordinances of the City of Flint, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions as granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this ordinance.
   (b)   No provision of this ordinance for which official traffic control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic- control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices
are erected or in place.
   (c)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this ordinance, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2095, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 28-123 DIRECTING OF TRAFFIC; OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES, SIGNAL AND THE LIKE OF
POLICE OFFICER.
   Traffic shall be directed by officers of the Police Department by voice,
hand or mechanical signal or shall be directed by automatic signal; but such
officers or signal shall not prevent any one from proceeding or standing in the
manner required or permitted by law; provided, however, that in case of fire,
or other emergency or in case of a parade or other concourse of people, traffic
may be directed as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of
this ordinance. It shall be a violation of this ordinance for any person to
disobey or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction of a
police officer, or any signal from an automatic signaling device pertaining to
the control of traffic.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-124 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic- control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal; and no person shall
place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway, any
traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This shall
not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private property adjacent to
highways of signs giving useful directional information and of a type that
cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (b)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance, an the Chief of Police is hereby empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   State law prohibiting erection of unauthorized devices, see MCLA 257.615
§ 28-125 CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (a)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic- control signals exhibiting
the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors shall be used
and the terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows.
      (1)   Green alone or “Go.”
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except at an intersection
where traffic is controlled by a police officer, may proceed straight through
or turn left or right unless a sign at such place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and pedestrians lawfully within the intersection
or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
         b.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
         b.   Pedestrians facing this signal are hereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadways, and any pedestrians then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   Red alone or “Stop.”
         a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or
“Go” is shown alone; provided, however, that the driver of a vehicle which is
stopped as close as practical at the entrance to a crosswalk on the near side
of an intersection or, if there is no crosswalk, then at the entrance to the
intersection, in obedience to a red or “Stop” signal, may make a right turn
when a sign is erected at the intersection stating “Right Turn on Red After
Stop,” or may make a left turn on red at the intersection of two one-way
streets when a sign is erected at the intersection stating “Left Turn on Red
After Stop,” but before proceeding shall make a careful observation for and
yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and other traffic proceeding as directed
by the signal. Such turns are prohibited against a red or “Stop” signal at any
signalized intersection when a sign is not erected at the intersection
permitting such turns against a red or “Stop” signal.
         b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the highway unless
he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Red with arrow.
         a.   Green arrow (steady). Vehicular traffic facing such signal may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         b.   Red arrow (flashing). When a red arrow is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked and shall
then be privileged to make the movement indicated; provided, that no
interference is offered pedestrians or vehicles lawfully on the highway.
         c.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the highway unless
he can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (b)   In the event a traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at a
place other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be
applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no
application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1706, passed 2-18-1963; Ord. 2172, passed 12-
6-1969; Ord. 2237, passed 11-16-1970; Ord. 2352, passed 8-7-1972)
§ 28-126 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the word “Walk”
“Don’t Walk” or “Wait” are in place such signals shall indicate as follows:
   (a)   “Walk.” Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the highway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   (b)   “Wait” or “Don’t Walk.” No pedestrian shall start to cross the highway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the “Wait” or “Don’t Walk” signal is showing.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1706, passed 2-18-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrian-control signals, see MCLA 257.613 et seq.
§ 28-127 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (a)   Flashing red (stop signals). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
   (b)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or pass such signal only with caution.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1706, passed 2-18-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Flashing red and yellow signals, see MCLA 257.614
ARTICLE IX. EQUIPMENT ON VEHICLES
§ 28-128 OPERATION OF UNSAFE OR IMPROPERLY EQUIPPED VEHICLE; INSPECTION.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner
to cause or knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any street or highway in
the City of Flint any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is in such
unsafe condition as to endanger any person, or which does not contain those
parts or is not at all times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in
proper condition and adjustment as required by this ordinance, or which is
equipped in any manner in violation of this ordinance, or for any person to do
any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required under this ordinance.
   (b)   Any police officer shall be authorized on reasonable grounds shown to
stop any motor vehicle and inspect the same, and if any defects in equipment
are found, to arrest the driver in the manner provided in the Motor Vehicle
Code of the State of Michigan.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibited the
use of additional parts and accessories on any vehicle not inconsistent with
the provisions of this section.
   (d)   The provisions of this section with respect to equipment on vehicles
shall not apply to implements of husbandry, road machinery, road rollers, or
farm tractors, except as herein made applicable.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
Statutory reference:
   Equipment on vehicles, see MCLA 257.683
§ 28-129 BRAKES.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, or motor-driven cycle
when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control
the movement of and to stop and hold such vehicle, including two (2) separate
means of applying the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply
the brakes to at least two (2) wheels. If these two (2) separate means of
applying the brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that
failure of any one (1) part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the
motor vehicle without brakes on at least two (2) wheels.
   (b)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor drawn vehicles shall be
capable at times and under all conditions of loading, of being stopped on a
dry, smooth, level road free from all loose material within a distance of
thirty (30) feet from a speed of twenty (20) miles per hour, if equipped with
brakes on all wheels, and within a distance of forty (40) feet from a speed of
twenty (20) miles per hour on vehicles not equipped with brakes on all wheels.
   (c)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with an emergency brake, capable
of holding the vehicle on any grade which it can ascend.
   (d)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order, and shall be so
adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels on
opposite side of the vehicle.
   (e)   Every motorcycle and motor-driven cycle, and bicycle with motor
attached when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with at least one (1)
brake which may be operated by hand or foot, and adequate to control the
movement of such vehicle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Cross-reference:
   Motor-driven vehicles, see §§
28-175 —
28-183
Statutory reference:
   Brake equipment, see MCLA 257.705
§ 28-130 WIDTH OF BUMPERS AND THE LIKE.
   No bumper or other appliance shall extend beyond the maximum width of the
vehicle proper.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-131 VEHICLE AND TRAILER COUPLINGS.
   (a)   Every vehicle or trailer drawn by any motor propelled vehicle must be
so attached to such vehicle with such forms of coupling devices as shall
prevent such vehicle or trailer from being deflected more than six (6) inches
from the path of the towing vehicle’s wheels. Such vehicle or trailer must also
be connected to the towing vehicle by suitable safety chains or devices, one on
each side of the coupling and at the extreme outer edge of the vehicle and each
such chain or device and connection so used shall be of sufficient strength to
haul the trailer when loaded.
   (b)   The draw bar or other connections between any two vehicles, one of
which is towing or drawing the other on a highway, shall not exceed 15 feet in
length from one vehicle to the other. Whenever such connection consists of a
chain, rope or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a red flag
or other signal or cloth not less than 12 inches in length and width.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-132 HORN; SIRENS, WHISTLES AND THE LIKE; MUFFLER CUT-OUTS.
   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be equipped with a
horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet, but no horn or other
warning device shall emit and unreasonable loud or harsh sound or whistle. No
vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a vehicle any
siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise provided in this ordinance
pertaining to authorized emergency vehicles.
   No person shall use a muffler cut-out, bypass, or similar device upon a
motor vehicle on a highway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Horns and warning devices, see MCLA 257.706
§ 28-133 MUD FLAPS OR OTHER SIMILAR DEVICES.
   On or after January 1, 1955, every commercial vehicle, except truck tractors
traversing between terminals at a speed not to exceed 25 miles per hour, and
every combination of a commercial vehicle and trailer or semitrailer when used
on a street or highway in the City of Flint shall be so constructed or
equipped, or so operated, as to bar water or other road surface substances
thrown from the rear wheels of such vehicle or combination at tangents
exceeding 22-1/2 degrees measured from the road surface. If flap-type device is
used, it shall not have attached any type of lamp, reflective material or
reflecting buttons; nor can said device extend beyond the 96-inch maximum width
of the vehicle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-
16-1970)
§ 28-134 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a highway whether attended or
unattended between the hours of one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour
before sunrise, there shall be displayed upon the left side of such vehicle one
or more lamps projecting a white light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet of the front thereof of such vehicle,
and projecting a red light visible under like conditions from a distance of 500
feet to the rear, except when such vehicle is stopped or parked upon a highway
where there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 500
feet upon the highway. Any lighted head lamps upon a parked or stopped vehicle
shall be depressed or dimmed.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Lights on parked vehicles, see MCLA 257.694
§ 28-135 LIGHTING EQUIPMENT REQUIRED ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Every vehicle being operated upon a street or highway within the corporate
limits of the City of Flint during the period from a half-hour after sunset to
a half-hour before sunrise and at any other time when there is not sufficient
light to render clearly discernible any person on the street or highway at a
distance of 500 feet ahead shall be equipped with lighted front and rear lamps
as required in this ordinance and subject to exemptions with reference to
lights on parked vehicles as provided in this ordinance, except when light
lamps and illuminating devices are required, no vehicle shall be operated upon
any street or highway in the City of Flint with only the parking lights
illuminated.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-136 CONSTRUCTION, ARRANGEMENT AND USE OF HEAD LAMPS AND AUXILIARY LAMPS.
   (a)   The head lamps and auxiliary driving lamps of motor vehicles shall be
so constructed, arranged, adjusted and used that they will, under normal
atmospheric conditions and on a level road produce a driving light sufficient
to render clearly discernible a person or vehicle at least 500 feet ahead,
except when approaching an oncoming vehicle, when it shall be sufficient to
render clearly discernible a person or vehicle 75 feet ahead. Auxiliary lamps
may emit either a white or amber light.
   (b)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, such driver shall use a distribution of light or composite beam so
aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming
driver, and in no case shall the high intensity portion which is projected to
the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle be aimed
higher than the center of the lamp from which it comes at a distance of 25 feet
ahead, and in no case higher than the level of 42 inches above the level upon
which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
   (c)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated upon a highway or a portion
thereof, which is sufficiently lighted to reveal a person or vehicle on the
highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, it shall be permissible to dim the
head lamps or to tilt or depress the dimmer downwards or substitute therefor
the light from an auxiliary driving lamp or pair of such lamps, subject to the
restrictions as to glaring lights set forth in the foregoing section; provided,
that at nighttime at least two lights shall be displayed to the front of and on
opposite sides of every moving motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, bicycles with motor attached, road roller, road machinery, or
farm tractor.
   (d)   Every motorcycle and every motor-driven cycle shall be equipped with
at least one and not more than two head lamps which shall comply with the
requirements and limitations of this section.
   (e)   Every head lamp, upon every motor vehicle, including every motorcycle,
shall be located at a height measured from the center of the head lamp of not
more than 54 inches nor less than 28 inches above the level surface upon which
the vehicle stands.
   (f)   The head lamp or head lamps upon every motor-driven cycle may be of
the single beam or multiple beam type, but in either event shall comply with
the requirements and limitations as follows: every said head lamp or head lamps
on a motor-driven cycle shall be of sufficient intensity to reveal a person or
vehicle at a distance of not less than 100 feet when the motor-driven cycle is
operated at any speed less than 25 miles per hour and at a distance of not less
than 200 feet when the motor-driven cycle is operated at a speed of 25 or more
miles per hour; provided, that no person shall operate any motor-driven cycle
between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one half- hour before
sunrise, at a speed greater than 35 miles per hour, unless such motor-driven
cycle is equipped with a head lamp or lamps which are adequate to reveal a
person or vehicle at a distance of 300 feet ahead.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-137 REAR LAMPS.
   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer and any other
vehicle which is being drawn in a train of vehicles shall be equipped with at
least one rear lamp mounted on the rear, which, when lighted as herein before
required, shall emit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-138 ILLUMINATION OF LICENSE PLATE.
   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed as
to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate and render it
clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. Any tail lamp or tail
lamps, together with any separate lamp for illuminating the rear registration
plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted whenever the head lamps or auxiliary
driving lamps are lighted.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-139 SPOT LAMPS AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LAMPS.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed two spot lamps;
except, that a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle shall not be equipped with more
than one spot lamp, and every lighted spot lamp shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the beam will be directed into the
eyes of the approaching driver. Spot lamps may not emit other than either a
white or amber light.
   (b)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed two auxiliary
driving lamps mounted on the front at a height not less than 24 inches above
the level surface on which the vehicle stands.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Spot lamps, see MCLA 257.696
§ 28-140 SIGNAL LAMPS AND DEVICES.
   (a)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with the following signal lamps and
devices.
      (1)   A stop lamp on the rear which shall emit a red or amber light and
which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot) brake and which
may but need not be incorporated with a tail lamp.
      (2)   A lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device which conveys an
intelligible signal or warning to another driver approaching from the rear.
   (b)   A stop lamp shall be capable of being seen and distinguished from a
distance of 100 feet to the rear, both during normal sunlight and at nighttime,
and a signal lamp or lamps indicating intention to turn shall be capable off
being seen and distinguished during the daytime and nighttime from a distance
of 100 feet to the front and rear. No stop lamp or signal lamp shall project a
glaring or dazzling light and shall be maintained in good working condition.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-141 REFLECTIVE DEVICES FOR SLOW- MOVING VEHICLES.
   (a)   When operated on the highway, every vehicle which has a maximum
potential speed of 25 miles an hour, implement of husbandry, farm tractor or
special mobile equipment shall be identified with a reflective device as
follows:
      (1)   An equilateral triangle in shape, at least 16 inches wide at the
base and at least 14 inches in height, with a dark red border, at least one and
three- fourths inches wide of highly reflective beaded material.
      (2)   A center triangle, at least 12-1/4 inches on each side of yellow-
orange fluorescent material.
   (b)   The device shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, broad base
down, not less than three feet nor more than five feet above the ground and as
near the center of the vehicle as possible. The use of this reflective device
is restricted to use on slow moving vehicles, and use of such reflective device
on any other type of vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
Statutory reference:
   Additional lights or reflectors on buses, trucks, tractors, trailers,
implement of husbandry, or special mobile equipment, see MCLA 257.688
§ 28-142 MIRRORS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on a highway which motor vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent the driver from obtaining a view of the
highway to the rear by looking backward from the driver’s position, unless such
vehicle is equipped with a mirror so located as to reflect to the driver a view
of the highway to the rear of such vehicle. In addition, all motor vehicles
shall be equipped with an outside rearview mirror on the driver’s side which
shall be positioned to give the driver a rear-viewing angle from the driver’s
side of the vehicle. Rearview mirrors may be positioned on the helmet or visor
worn by the operator of a motorcycle if the helmet is securely attached to the
head of the operator. Every commercial vehicle of one-half ton capacity or
more, operating upon the streets of this state, shall be equipped with two
mirrors, one on each side, so adjusted that the operator shall have a clear
view of the highway behind such commercial vehicle. The outside mirrors shall
not be deemed to be a part of the vehicle for the purpose of determining the
maximum width of said vehicle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2237, passed 11-16-1970)
Statutory reference:
   Mirrors, see MCLA 257.708
§ 28-142.1 WINDSHIELD.
   A motor vehicle shall not be operated on the public highways of this state
unless it is equipped with a windshield of sufficient dimensions to protect the
driver and occupants from insects, other airborne objects, and highway surface
water and debris, when such motor vehicle is moving forward. A farm tractor,
other implement of husbandry and historic vehicles as defined in the State
Motor Vehicle Code are exempt from this section. When a motorcycle or a motor-
driven cycle operated on the public highways of this state in excess of 35
miles per hour is not equipped with a windshield, the operator shall wear
goggles with transparent lenses or a transparent face shield or eye glasses,
which goggles, eye glasses or face shield shall be of shatter-resistant
material and of sufficient size to protect his eyes against insects, other
airborne material, and highway surface water and debris.
(Ord. 2237, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 28-143 MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL TURN SIGNALS REQUIRED ON CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on the streets and highways of
the City of Flint which was manufactured and assembled after January 1, 1955,
unless the same is equipped with mechanical or electrical turn signals that are
self-illuminated, and shall be in good working order.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-144 METAL OR PLASTIC TRACK, STUDDED TIRES AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   No vehicle nor special mobile equipment shall be operated on the
public highways of this State on metal or plastic track or on tires which are
equipped with metal that comes in contact with the surface of the road or which
have a partial contact with the metal or plastic with the surface of the road
except as provided in subsections (c) and (d).
   (b)   No tire on a vehicle moved on a highway shall have on its periphery
any block, stud, flange, cleat or spike or any other protuberances of any
material other than rubber which projects beyond the tread of the traction
surface of the tire; except, that it shall be permissible to use farm machinery
with tires having protuberances which will not injure the streets or highways;
and except that it shall be permissible to use tire chains of reasonable
proportions upon any vehicle when required for safety because of snow, ice or
other conditions tending to cause a vehicle to skid, and except also as
provided in subsections (c) and (d).
   (c)   A pneumatic tire may have embedded in it wire not to exceed .075
inches in diameter if so constructed that under no conditions shall the percent
of metal in contact with the highway exceed 5% of the total tire area in
contact with the roadway; except, that during the first 1,000 miles of use or
operation of any such tire the metal in contact with the highway shall not
exceed 20% of such area.
   (d)   Pneumatic tires may have inserted ice grips or tire studs of wear-
resisting plastic or metal material, installed in such manner as to provide
resiliency upon contact with the road, with projections not to exceed 3/32 of
an inch beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire, and constructed
to prevent any appreciable damage to the road surface. Pneumatic tires so
equipped may be used on motor vehicles between November 1 of each year and May
1 of the following year. Copies of this subsection shall be posted in all
places at which tires are sold.
   (e)   A printed or written warning on the time limitation for the use of
such studded tires shall be furnished each buyer, purchaser or user by the
seller of such studded tires.
(Ord. 2237, passed 11-16-1970)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.710
§ 28-145 REGROOVED OR RECUT TIRES.
   No person shall regroove or recut motor vehicle or motorcycle tires or
knowingly sell, offer or expose for sale or have in his possession with intent
to sell any motor vehicle or motorcycle tire or any motor vehicle or motorcycle
equipped with one or more tires which have been recut or regrooved; except,
that there shall be no prohibition against the regrooving or recutting of
commercial vehicle tires or commercial vehicles equipped with such commercial
vehicle tires which are designed and constructed in such a manner that
regrooving or recutting is an acceptable and safe practice.
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MCLA 257.710
§ 28-146 EMISSION OF EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR NOISE.
   It shall be deemed a violation of this ordinance for any person in charge or
control of any vehicle to make, with such vehicle, or any device connected
therewith, any excessive noise, or unnecessarily to race his motor while
running idle, or to open the muffler o any vehicle or to permit such vehicle or
any device thereon to emit an unreasonable quantity of smoke or noxious gases
or vapors.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-147 VEHICLES TO BE CONSTRUCTED SO CONTENTS WILL NOT SPILL OR LEAK.
   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street unless such vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, sifting,
leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1607, passed 10-17-1960)
§ 28-148 COVERING OF TRUCKS HAULING TRASH, DEBRIS AND THE LIKE.
   No truck hauling trash, debris, junk or refuse or any material which might
blow about, sift or fall in transit, shall be driven or moved on any street
within the City of Flint unless such vehicle is equipped with a securely
fastened covering of canvas or other material suitable to prevent such
materials from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom.
(Ord. 2049, passed 4-22-1968)
ARTICLE X. SIZE AND WEIGHT OF VEHICLES
§ 28-149 MAXIMUM LENGTH, WIDTHS AND HEIGHTS.
   (a)   The total outside width of any vehicle or the load thereon shall not
exceed 96 inches except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (1)   The total outside width of a farm tractor or any farm implement or
machinery shall not exceed 186 inches. Any agricultural implement wider than
108 inches shall not be moved on the highway between the hours of sunset and
sunrise.
      (2)   The total outside width of the load of any vehicle hauling concrete
pipe or unprocessed logs, pulpwood or wood bolts shall not exceed 104 inches.
      (3)   Whenever pneumatic tires, in substitution for the same type or
other type of tires, have been heretofore or are hereafter placed upon a
vehicle in operation upon the effective date of this ordinance, the maximum
width from the outside of one wheel and tire to the outside of the opposite
wheel and tire shall not exceed 102 inches, but in such event the outside width
of the body of the vehicle or the load thereon shall not exceed 96 inches.
      (4)   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the operation of any
trackless trolley, coach, gas or diesel, with a maximum outside width of not to
exceed 102 inches, on the streets of the City of Flint; and the Michigan Public
Service Commission may permit the operation of motor buses in suburban
services, within a radius of 30 miles from the corporate limits of the City of
Flint, with a maximum outside width of not to exceed 102 inches on highways and
streets the width of which is 20 feet or more.
   (b)   No vehicle unloaded or with load shall exceed a height of 13 feet, six
inches. The owner of any vehicle which collides with any lawfully established
bridge or viaduct shall be liable for all damage and injury resulting from any
collision caused by the height of the vehicle, whether clearance of the bridge
or viaduct is posted or not.
      (1)   No vehicle, except a trailer or semitrailer, including load shall
exceed a total length of 35 feet, except vehicles operated by municipally-
owned or municipally-franchised transportation companies operating within their
respective jurisdictions, and except motor buses regulated by the Michigan
Public Service Commission and vehicles designed and used exclusively to
transport boards and vans used in moving household goods, which shall not
exceed a total length of 40 feet. No combination of truck-tractor and trailer
or semitrailer including load shall exceed a total length of 55 feet; except
that a combination of truck-tractor, semitrailer and trailer including load may
exceed a total length of 65 feet. Any combination exceeding 55 feet in length,
unless designed and used exclusively to transport assembled motor vehicles or
bodies, may be operated only on such highways and routes as shall be approved
and designated for such operation by the City of Flint. No motor truck or
tractor or other motor-propelled vehicle shall haul more than one trailer and
one semitrailer at any one time except that a farm tractor may haul two wagons
or trailers or garbage and refuse haulers may, during daylight hours, haul up
to four trailers for garbage and refuse collection purposes, not exceeding in
any combination a total length of 55 feet at a speed of not to exceed 15 miles
per hour.
      (2)   No train of vehicles or vehicle operated alone shall carry any load
extending more than three feet beyond the front thereof.
      (3)   No motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer whose frame or body
extends more than 60 inches beyond the rear of the rear axle thereof and is
more than 42 inches above the roadway shall be operated on the streets of this
City unless equipped with a fender or bumper on the extreme rear of such frame
or body. Such bumper shall extend downward from the rear of such frame or body
to within 30 inches of the roadway and be of substantial construction.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, it shall be
lawful to operate a combination of truck-trailer or semitrailer, or both,
designed and used exclusively to transport assembled motor vehicles or bodies
which does not exceed a total length of 60 feet. The load on any such
combination of vehicles may extend an additional three feet beyond the front or
rear thereof.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1795, passed 8-17-1964; Ord. 2118, passed 3-
10-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Size, weight and load of vehicles, see MCLA 257.716 et seq.
§ 28-150 OVERLOAD OF VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be so overloaded that the motive power shall be unable to
move it or if it creates hazard to other traffic.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1607, passed 10-17-1960)
§ 28-151 LOADS EXTENDING BEYOND SIDES OF VEHICLES; FLAGS AND LIGHTS ON LOADS
EXTENDING BEYOND REAR OF VEHICLE.
   (a)   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on any highway with any
load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side
of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches beyond the line of the
fenders on the right side thereof.
   (b)   Whenever any vehicle is loaded with material projecting four (4) feet
or more from the end of such vehicle, a red cloth shall be fastened at the end
of such projecting material and at nighttime a red light. The red light or
lantern shall be visible for at least 500 feet, and the cloth shall be not less
than 12 inches square.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
ARTICLE XI. IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
§ 28-152 WHEN AUTHORIZED; REPORTS; REDEMPTION; PAYMENT OF COSTS; DISPOSITION OF
UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   (a)   Whenever the operator of a motor vehicle appears unfit to operate such
vehicle without endangering persons or property, and whenever a person is
arrested pursuant to MSA § 9.2427, and when any vehicle shall hereafter be
parked or left standing on any street, or in any municipally-operated parking
lot or enclosure in the City, contrary to the provisions of this chapter, such
vehicle may be removed by or under the direction of any member of the Police
Department to a place or places in the City to be designated by the Chief of
Police, and it shall be the duty of any police officer so removing or causing
to be removed any such vehicle to make a report thereof in writing and in
duplicate stating the make of such vehicle, the manufacturer’s number of the
motor therein if any, and the State license number thereon, and file the same
with the Chief of Police or any person designated by him. Any person owning or
entitled to the possession of such vehicle so removed, may thereafter obtain
possession thereof by paying to the appropriate person the appropriate fee
which shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council,
kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
   (b)   Provided, that any motor vehicle impounded subsequent to an arrest, as
specified in this section, shall be returned to the owner without imposition of
the fees specified in this section, if the person arrested shall have been
acquitted of the charge which occasioned the impound of the vehicle. If the
vehicle shall have been returned to the owner prior to final disposition of the
charge, the owner shall be entitled to the refund of all sums charged and paid,
pursuant to this section, upon producing satisfactory proof of acquittal to the
Chief of Police. It is further provided that the registered owner must make
application for the return of the sums above specified. The City shall incur no
obligation to the owner or party arrested for any amount in excess of the sums
specified in this section.
   (c)   Any vehicle impounded pursuant to the terms of this section, remaining
unclaimed, shall be deemed an abandoned vehicle and shall be disposed of in
accordance with the laws of the State providing for the disposition of
abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1724, passed 6-24-1963; Ord. 1813, passed 12-
21-1964; Ord. 1940, passed 10-10-1966; Ord. 1992, passed 8-21-1967; Ord. 2275,
passed 6-21-1971; Ord. 2423, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 2938, passed 1-28-1985;
Ord. 3199, passed 3-23-1992; Ord. 3411, passed 2-8-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without warrant; arraignment by magistrate or family division of
circuit court, see MCLA 257.727
ARTICLE XII. PEDESTRIANS
§ 28-153 SAFETY ZONES.
   Safety zones for pedestrians may be established and discontinued by the
Traffic Engineer as he may deem advisable.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1311, passed 1-5-1956; Ord. 2095, passed 11-
11-1968)
§ 28-154 USE OF WHITE CANES BY OTHER THAN BLIND PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry or use upon the public highways
of the City any cane or walking stick of white or white with red end or bottom,
except blind or partially blind persons who may use them for the purpose of
identifying themselves to the operators of vehicles, pedestrians and other
persons.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-155 VEHICLES TO YIELD TO PERSONS CARRYING WHITE CANES.
   Any driver or operator of any vehicle, or any pedestrian who approaches any
blind, or partially blind person carrying a cane or walking stick, white in
color, with red end or bottom, shall immediately come to a full stop and take
such precautions as may be necessary to avoid accident or injury to such blind
person.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Right-of-way of persons carrying white canes, see MCLA 752.52
§ 28-156 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS NOT CONTROLLED BY SIGNALS.
   (a)   Where traffic signals are not in place or in operation, the driver of
a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if necessary,
to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk
or within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
   (b)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked or unmarked crosswalk at
an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any
other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass such
stopped vehicle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-157 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALK.
   (a)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked or unmarked crosswalk, at an intersection, shall yield the right-of- way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in the crosswalk.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, and shall exercise proper precautions upon observing any child or
person on the roadway.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1398, passed 9-30-1957)
§ 28-158 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall occupy any portion of a street or highway for the purpose of
or in soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(Ord. 1827, passed 4-12-1965)
ARTICLE XIII. ACCIDENTS
§ 28-159 DUTY OF DRIVER.
   The driver of any vehicle which collides upon either public or private
property with any vehicle which is attended or unattended shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
such vehicle of the name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle
striking the vehicle or, if such owner cannot be located, shall forthwith
report it to the nearest or most convenient police officer.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Accidents, see MCLA 257.620
§ 28-160 REPORT OF CERTAIN ACCIDENTS TO POLICE BY DRIVER OR OCCUPANT.
   The driver of every vehicle involved in an accident resulting in a vehicle
or vehicles becoming so disabled as to be incapable of being propelled in the
usual manner, or resulting in personal injury or death of any person shall
forthwith report such accident to the nearest or most convenient Police Station
or Police Officer, and no vehicle involved in any such accident shall be driven
or taken away from the scene of such accident until authorized by a member of
the Police Department, or when necessary for the preservation of life or aid to
the injured. If a driver or operator in an accident is so incapacitated as to
be unable to make such notification, it shall be the duty of every other
occupant of the vehicle to see that such notification is made. Upon the
notification of such accident, the Police Department shall cause an
investigation to be made and shall take the reports of the parties thereto.
   The failure to make such notification and report as required by this section
shall not effect civil rights and remedies. The Police Department of the City
may require any driver of a vehicle involved in any accident of which a report
must be made, as provided in this section to file supplemental reports whenever
the original report is insufficient in the opinion of the Police Department,
and may require witnesses to render such report to the Police Department.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Statutory reference:
   Report of accident, see MCLA 257.617 et seq.
§ 28-161 DUTY TO STOP AND RENDER AID.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in damage to
property, or in injury to or death of any person, shall give his or her name,
address and the registration number of the vehicle he is driving, also the name
and address of the owner and exhibit his operator’s or chauffeur’s license to
the person struck or the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with and
shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable assistance in
securing medical aid or transportation of injured person or persons.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-162 REPORT OF DAMAGE TO UNATTENDED VEHICLE OR PROPERTY TO OWNERS AND
POLICE.
   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting only in damage
to fixtures or unattended vehicles legally upon or adjacent to highway shall
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of
such property of such fact, and of his name and address, and of the
registration number of the vehicle he is driving, and upon request exhibit his
operator’s or chauffeur’s license, and shall make report of such accident to
the Police Department.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-163 REPORTS OF DAMAGE BY GARAGEMEN.
   The proprietor or person in charge of any garage or repair shop to which is
brought any motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been involved in an
accident or having been struck by a bullet shall report the same to the nearest
Police Station immediately after such motor vehicle is received, giving the
make, model, the engine number, registration number and the name and address of
the owner and/or operator of the vehicle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
ARTICLE XIV. MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES AND THE LIKE
DIVISION 1. BICYCLES
§ 28-164 “BICYCLE” DEFINED.
   BICYCLE. A device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1398, passed 9-30-1957)
§ 28-165 COMPLIANCE.
   All person using bicycles shall conform to the general rules as set forth in
this ordinance.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1853, passed 7-8-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Operation of bicycles, motorcycles and the like, see MCLA 257.656 et seq.
§ 28-166 REGISTRATION; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   (a)   No person shall operate a bicycle upon any street, alley, or public
place of this City unless such bicycle is registered as hereinafter provided
and properly displays a decalcomania print; provided, however, that a
nonresident temporarily in the City may secure from the Chief of Police a
permit to use a bicycle for a period not exceeding seven (7) days.
   (b)   Bicycle registration certificates shall be issued by the Chief of
Police but only after ascertaining that the bicycle desired to be registered is
in good mechanical condition and carries the equipment required under this
ordinance. The fee for such registration shall be as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code.
   (c)   The application of registration hereunder shall be on a form furnished
by the Chief of Police. Said application shall be in triplicate and when signed
by the Chief of Police shall constitute a certificate of registration, one copy
of which shall be given to and retained by the applicant. The Chief of Police
shall also furnish a decalcomania print which shall be securely attached to the
bicycle to a conspicuous place on the frame. The decalcomania must be displayed
on the registered bicycle at all times, and shall not be used on, or
transferred to any other bicycle than that for which it was issued.
   (d)   Any person who sells or transfers ownership to any bicycle shall
report such sale or transfer by returning to the Chief of Police the
registration card issued therefor, together with the name and address of the
person to whom such bicycle was sold or transferred. Such report shall be made
within five days from the date of the sale or transfer. It shall be the duty of
the purchaser or transferee to apply for transfer or registration thereof
within seven (7) days after the sale or transfer. The transfer of registration
shall bear a fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code and be upon the condition that the bicycle is in good
mechanical condition and carries equipment required under this ordinance.
   (e)   No person shall willfully or maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or
alter the frame number or manufacturer’s serial number, or the decalcomania
print issued under this article.
   (f)   Duplicate decalcomania print shall be issued by the Chief of Police in
event the decalcomania print is lost, defaced or destroyed, upon the payment of
the sum of $0.25.
   (g)   In event any bicycle does not possess a trade number of manufacturer’s
serial number, the Chief of Police may stamp an identifying frame number
thereon.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1398, passed 9-30-1957)
§ 28-166.1 BICYCLES TO BE PERMANENTLY IDENTIFIED UPON SALE.
   Retail merchants of bicycles are hereby required to affix to each such
bicycle sold, the driver’s license number, social security number, or other
proper identification number of the purchaser of such bicycle with a permanent
stencil, stamp, or other method approved by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 2407, passed 10-15-1973)
§ 28-167 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which will emit a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the front and with a red reflector on the rear which shall be visible from all
distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1398, passed 9-30-1957)
§ 28-168 WARNING DEVICES REQUIRED; USE OF SIRENS OR WHISTLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or other
device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100 feet;
except that such vehicle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon such vehicles any sirens or whistle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1853, passed 7-8-1965)
§ 28-169 BRAKES REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1853, passed 7-8-1965)
§ 28-170 CARRYING PACKAGES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the driver from keeping both hands upon the handlebars of the
vehicle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1853, passed 7-8-1965)
§ 28-171 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall ride any bicycle upon any sidewalks in the City of Flint,
except on sidewalks located in residential districts of the said City of Flint;
provided that no person shall ride upon any sidewalk or be permitted to do so
at a rate of speed exceeding ten miles per hour; further, that such vehicle
shall be operated along the right side of the street or sidewalk.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1853, passed 7-8-1965)
§ 28-172 TO BE RIDDEN WITH HANDS ON HANDLEBARS; MORE THAN ONE PERSON RIDING
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to ride bicycles in the streets, highways,
public places or on sidewalks without having their hands on the handlebars, or
for two or more persons to ride on any such vehicles; provided, that two or
more persons may ride on a tandem bicycle which is hereby defined to be a
bicycle originally manufactured for the purpose of being ridden or operated by
two or more persons.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1853, passed 7-8-1965)
§ 28-173 IMPOUNDMENT OF ABANDONED OR STOLEN BICYCLES.
   Any unregistered bicycle which appears to be abandoned by the owner or is
recovered by the police after being stolen, shall be removed by any member of
the Police Department to a place in the City to be designated by the Chief of
Police. Any person owning or entitled to possession of such bicycle so removed
may thereafter obtain possession thereof by paying the Police Department a fee
which shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council,
kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code,
and registering the bicycle as provided in this division. It shall be the duty
of any Police Department member collecting any such fee to issue a receipt
therefor in duplicate, stating the make and serial number, if any, of the
bicycle, together with the name of the owner or person entitled to possession
thereof, one of which shall be handed to the person paying the same, and the
other shall be filed in the office of the Chief of Police, and within 48 hours
thereafter, the Chief of Police shall pay to the City Treasurer the amount so
collected, taking the Treasurer’s receipt therefor and filing the same in the
office of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1853, passed 7-8-1965; Ord. 3412, passed 2-8-
1999)
§ 28-174 RIDING ON PERMANENT SEATS.
   A person propelling a bicycle or operating a motorcycle or motor-driven
cycle shall not ride other than upon and astride a permanent and regular seat
attached thereto.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1983, passed 7-16-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-
16-1970)
DIVISION 2. MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES
§ 28-175 CARRYING EXCESS NUMBER OF PERSONS.
   No motorcycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designated and equipped.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1983, passed 7-16-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-
16-1970)
§ 28-176 RESERVED.
§ 28-177 TO BE DRIVEN NEAR RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; CARE TO BE EXERCISED IN
PASSING.
   Every person operating a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle upon a roadway,
shall ride as near the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due
care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
(Ord. 1983, passed 7-16-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-16-1970)
§ 28-178 METHOD OF PASSING.
   No person operating a motor-driven cycle or a motorcycle shall pass between
lines of traffic, but may pass on the left of traffic moving in his direction
in the case of a two-way street or on the left or right of traffic in the case
of a one-way street, in an unoccupied lane.
(Ord. passed - -2002)
§ 28-179 RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding motorcycles, or motor-driven cycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than two (2) abreast.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1983, passed 7-16-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-
16-1970)
§ 28-180 LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (a)   Every motorcycle and motor-driven cycle operated upon a highway,
during such time lights are required, shall display lighted lamps and/or
illuminating devices as provided for in this ordinance.
   (b)   No person shall operate any motor-driven cycle between the hours of
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, at a greater rate
of speed than 35 miles per hour, unless the motor-driven cycle is equipped with
head lamp or lamps which are adequate to reveal a person or vehicle at a
distance of 300 feet ahead.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1983, passed 7-16-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-
16-1970)
§ 28-181 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride or propel a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle upon any
sidewalk, except at a permanent or temporary driveway within the City of Flint.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1983, passed 7-16-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-
16-1970)
§ 28-182 CARRYING PACKAGES.
   No person operating a motorcycle or motor- driven cycle, shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the driver from keeping both hands
upon the handlebars or steering mechanism of the vehicle.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1983, passed 7-16-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-
16-1970)
§ 28-183 CRASH HELMETS REQUIRED FOR OPERATORS AND PASSENGERS.
   (a)   A person operating or riding on a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle on
a public thoroughfare shall wear a crash helmet on his head. Crash helmets
shall be approved by the Department of State Police. The Department shall
promulgate rules for the implementation of this section in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Act 306 of the Public Acts of 1969, being MCLA §§
24.201 through 24.313. Rules in effect when this ordinance takes effect shall
apply to helmets required by this ordinance.
   (b)   A person operating a motorcycle or motor- driven cycle shall not allow
a passenger to ride on said motorcycle or motor-driven cycle without a crash
helmet approved by the Department of State Police.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 1983, passed 7-16-1963; Ord. 2237, passed 11-
16-1970)
Cross-reference:
   Permanent seats required, see §
28-174
Statutory reference:
   Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, see MCLA 24.201 through 24-313
ARTICLE XV. LICENSES
§ 28-184 OPERATOR’S LICENSE — REQUIRED BY PERSONS OVER 14.
   It shall be unlawful for any person over the age of fourteen (14) years to
drive a motor vehicle upon any highway in the City of Flint without first
having obtained an instruction permit, or an operator’s license, or a
chauffeurs license, as required by the State law.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
Cross-reference:
   Ambulance licenses, see §§
7-1 –
7-5
   Ambulance driver’s license, see §§
7-9 –
7-12
Statutory reference:
   Operator’s licenses, see MCLA 257.301 et seq.
   Vehicle registration, see MCLA 257.209 et seq.
§ 28-185 SAME — TO BE IN POSSESSION; ADULT LICENSED DRIVER TO ACCOMPANY HOLDER
OF INSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   Operators and chauffeurs must have operator’s or chauffeur’s licenses, as
required by the general laws of the State, in their possession at all times
while operating a motor vehicle on any highway. The holder of an instruction
permit while driving shall have in the motor vehicle an adult licensed operator
or chauffeur who is actually occupying the seat beside the driver.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-186 SAME — CHANGE OF ADDRESS TO BE INDICATED.
   Any operator or chauffeur, who shall change his residence previous to the
expiration of a license granted under the general laws of the State, shall
immediately return such license to the local Examining Board, Sheriff’s
Department, Police Department or Michigan State Police, whose duty it shall be
to write on said license the new address in the proper space therefor and the
date of the change.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 28-187 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW COVERING OPERATOR’S OR CHAUFFEUR’S LICENSE OR
REGISTRATION; SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR DENIAL; PENALTY FOR OPERATION OF
VEHICLE; VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION.
   (a)   Sections 904, 904b, 904c, 904d, 904e of the Michigan Vehicle Code
covering operator’s or chauffeur’s license or registration suspension,
revocation or denial, and vehicle immobilization, as adopted and promulgated by
the State of Michigan, and otherwise known as the repeat offender package,
effective October 1, 1999, adopted and promulgated by the State of Michigan as
Public Act 340 through 359 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1998 and as from time
to time amended by the State of Michigan, being MCLA §§ 257.904 et seq. are
hereby adopted by reference, together with the following local amendments
thereto, as adopted by the Flint City Council and placed on file with the City
Clerk.
   (b)   Section 904 shall be amended as follows:
   (1)   A person whose operator’s or chauffeur’s license or registration
certificate has been suspended or revoked and who has been notified as provided
in MCLA § 257.212 of that suspension or revocation, whose application for
license has been denied, or who has never applied for a license, shall not
operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of motor vehicles, within this City.
   (2)   A person shall not knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by the
person to be operated upon a highway or other place open to the general public
or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles, within this State by a person whose license or
registration certificate is suspended or revoked, whose application for license
has been denied, or who has never applied for a license, except as permitted
under this Act.
   (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person who violates
subsection (1) or (2) is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as follows: for a
first violation, by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of not
more than $500.00, or both. Unless the vehicle was stolen or used with the
permission of a person who did not knowingly permit an unlicensed driver to
operate the vehicle, the registration plates of the vehicle shall be canceled
by the Secretary of State upon notification by a peace officer.
   (4)   Before a person is arraigned before a District Court Magistrate or
Judge on a charge of violating this section, the arresting officer shall obtain
the person’s driving record from the Secretary of State and shall furnish the
record to the Court. The driving record of the person may be obtained from the
Secretary of State=s computer information network.
   (5)   This section does not apply to a person who operates a vehicle solely
for the purpose of protecting human life or property if the life or property is
endangered and summoning prompt aid is essential.
   (6)   A person whose vehicle group designation is suspended or revoked and
who has been notified as provided in MCLA § 257.212 of that suspension or
revocation, or whose application for a vehicle group designation has been
denied as provided in this act, or who has never applied for a vehicle group
designation and who operates a commercial motor vehicle within this State,
except as permitted under this Act, while any of those conditions exist is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable, except as otherwise provided in this
section, by imprisonment for not less than 3 days or more than 93 days or a
fine of not more than $100.00, or both.
   (7)   For purposes of this section, a person who never applied for a license
includes a person who applied for a license, was denied, and never applied
again.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 3442, passed 10-11-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Methods of giving notice; proof, see MCLA 257.212
   Operating vehicle if license, registration certificate, or designation
suspended, revoked, or denied; penalty; extending period of suspension or
revocation; informing court of record and status; applicability, see MCLA
257.904 et seq.
§ 28-188 SAME — DRIVING IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive on the streets and highways of
the City of Flint in violation of the restrictions placed upon him by the
Secretary of State of the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-189 SAME — POSSESSION OF FICTITIOUS OR REVOKED LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to display or cause or permit to be displayed, or to
have in possession, any operator’s or chauffeur’s license, knowing the same to
be fictitious or to have been canceled, revoked, suspended, altered or
mutilated.
(Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-190 SAME — LENDING LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lend to, or knowingly permit the use
of, by one not entitled thereto, any operator’s or chauffeur’s license issued
to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof.
(Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-191 SAME — USE OF ANOTHER PERSON’S LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to display or to represent as one’s own, any operator’s
or chauffeur’s license not issued to the person so displaying the same.
(Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-192 RESERVED.
§ 28-193 REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   Every owner upon receipt of a registration certificate shall write his
signature thereon with pen and ink in the space provided. Every such
registration certificate shall at all times be carried in the vehicle to which
it refers or shall be carried by the person driving or in control of such
vehicle who shall display the same upon demand of a police officer.
(Ord. 1710, passed 3-18-1963)
§ 28-194 LICENSE PLATES REQUIRED; PLATES TO BE KEPT CLEAN AND UNOBSTRUCTED.
   No person shall drive or operate any motor vehicle or motor-driven cycle on
any public street in the City of Flint unless the license plates for such
vehicle required by the general laws of the State shall be displayed thereon,
and kept clean and unobstructed and in such condition that the license number
may be distinctly read.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
ARTICLE XVI. SNOWMOBILES
§ 28-195 DEFINITIONS.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and to control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. Any person, other than the lienholder, having the property in or
title to a snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, the State and any of its
agencies or subdivisions, and any body of persons whether incorporated or not.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel. If a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the
term ROADWAY refers to any such roadway separately, but not to all such
roadways collectively.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any motorized vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow or
ice steered by wheels, skis or runners.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
§ 28-196 OPERATION OF UNREGISTERED SNOWMOBILES.
   Except as otherwise provided, no snowmobile shall be operated within the
City of Flint unless registered by the owner with the State of Michigan as
required by Act 74 of the Public Acts of 1969. No registration is required for
a snowmobile operated exclusively on lands owned or under the control of the
snowmobile owner.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, see MCLA 324.82102 et
seq.
§ 28-197 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION NUMBER.
   The owner of any snowmobile having been issued a certificate of registration
for the snowmobile by the State of Michigan shall paint on or attach in a
permanent manner to each side of the forward half of the snowmobile the
identification number issued by the State of Michigan in block characters of
good proportion, not less than three inches in height, reading from left to
right. The numbers shall contrast so as to be distinctly visible and legible.
No number other than the number awarded to a snowmobile by the State of
Michigan, or granted reciprocity under Act 74 of the Public Acts of 1969, shall
be painted, attached or otherwise displayed on either side of the forward half
of the snowmobile.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
§ 28-198 OPERATION ON STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon the streets or highways within the
City of Flint, as defined in this ordinance, with the following exceptions:
   (a)   Properly registered snowmobiles may cross such streets and highways,
except limited access highways and freeways as defined in Act 300 of the Public
Acts of 1949, if such crossing can be made in safety and it does not interfere
with the free movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on
the highway. The snowmobile operator shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicular traffic upon any street or highway.
   (b)   Snowmobiles may be operated on a street and highway during a period of
emergency, when so declared by the Chief of Police, when travel by conventional
automotive equipment is not possible.
   (c)   Snowmobiles may be operated on the highways within the restrictions
set forth herein for the purposes of crossing bridges and culverts.
   (d)   Snowmobiles may be operated on a street or highway for a special
snowmobile event of limited duration which is conducted according to a
prearranged schedule under permit from the governmental unit having
jurisdiction.
   (e)   Whenever it is impractical to gain immediate access to an area
adjacent to a public highway where a snowmobile is to be operated, the vehicle
may be operated adjacent and parallel to the highway for the purpose of gaining
access to the area of operation. This subsection shall apply to the operation
of a snowmobile from the point where the vehicle is unloaded from a motorized
conveyance to and from the area where the snowmobile is to be operated when
loading and unloading cannot be effected in the immediate vicinity of the area
of operation without causing hazard to vehicular traffic approaching from
either direction on the highway. Loading or unloading must be accomplished,
with due regard to safety, at the nearest possible point to the area of
operation.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Michigan Vehicle Code, see MCLA 257.1 et seq.
§ 28-199 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   No snowmobile shall be operated in the City of Flint unless it has at least
one headlight, one taillight and adequate brakes capable of producing
deceleration of 14 feet a second on level ground at a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
§ 28-200 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile:
   (a)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and proper having due
regard for conditions then existing.
   (b)   When under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs,
barbital or any derivative of barbital.
   (c)   During the hours from one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour
before sunrise without displaying a lighted headlight and a lighted taillight.
   (d)   In any nursery, planting area or natural area of forest reproduction
and when growing stock may be damaged.
   (e)   Unless it is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in
constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
   (f)   While transporting thereon a bow or a firearm.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
§ 28-201 REPORT OF ACCIDENTS.
   The operator of a snowmobile involved in an accident resulting in injuries
to or death of any person, or property damage in an estimated amount of $100.00
or more, or some person acting for him or the owner of the snowmobile having
knowledge of the accident, shall immediately by the quickest means of
communication notify the Police Department of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
§ 28-202 USE ON PROPERTY OF CITY RECREATION AND PARK BOARD.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon property under the jurisdiction
and control of the City Parks and Recreation Department.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969; Ord. 2871, passed 3-14-1983)
§ 28-203 AUTHORIZING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a snowmobile owned by him or
under his control to be operated in violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
§ 28-204 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Police officers or other public servants authorized by law, may use the
procedure set forth in Public Act 147 of the Public Acts of 1968, State of
Michigan, in enforcement of the provisions this article.
(Ord. 2109, passed 2-3-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Code of Criminal Procedure, see MCLA 764.91c
ARTICLE XVII. WRECKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLES
§ 28-205 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this ordinance:
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the City which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon.
(Ord. 2420, passed 12-27-1973)
§ 28-206 ON STREET.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the City.
(Ord. 2420, passed 12-27-1973)
§ 28-207 ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; ON BUSINESS PREMISES; IN STORAGE.
   No person in charge or control of any property within the City, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than 15 days; and no person shall leave any such vehicle
on any property within the City for a longer time than 15 days; except that
this ordinance shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed
building, a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a
lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of the business
enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the City.
(Ord. 2420, passed 12-27-1973)
§ 28-208 VEHICLE WITH EXPIRED LICENSE PLATE.
   Any vehicle which does not possess a current year’s State license plate
shall be presumed to be in violation of this ordinance and may be left or
allowed to remain on property only in accordance with §
28-207.
(Ord. 2420, passed 12-27-1973)
§ 28-209 ENFORCEMENT.
   This ordinance shall be enforced by the Director of Public Works or his
representative, or any Community Service Officer as provided by Section 9(b) of
Act 175 as amended or any police officer of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2420, passed 12-27-1973)
ARTICLE XVIII. COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
§ 28-210 RESERVED.
§ 28-211 DEFINITIONS.
   This following words, when used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context of the ordinance:
   COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT. Any construction equipment or large equipment used
primarily in the course of conducting a trade or business.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Includes mobile structure trailers, pole trailers,
semitrailers, and trucks; however, motor home recreational vehicles,
recreational trailers, noncommercial buses and school buses shall be excluded.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Bulldozers, front-end loaders, power shovels, and
other heavy construction equipment, or trailers designed for the transportation
of such equipment.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE TRAILER. A trailer that has a roof and walls and is at
least ten (10) feet wide and which may be used off-road for commercial
purposes.
   OWNER. Any person in whose name the legal title is registered, titled, or in
the event of a lease or conditional sales agreement, the lessee or person with
the right of purchase and immediate right of possession.
   POLE TRAILER. A vehicle without mode of power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach of pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, for transporting
long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, beams, trees, pallets, pipes,
or structural members capable generally of staying themselves as beams between
the supporting connections.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Any one-family residential, two-family residential,
multiple-family residential or residential mobile home park or residential
trailer park as defined and delineated in the Zoning Ordinance and Maps of the
City of Flint.
   SEMITRAILER. A trailer other than a pole trailer so constructed that a
substantial part of its weight rests upon or is carried by a truck.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AREA. Any one-family residential district as
defined and delineated in the Zoning Ordinance and Zoning Maps of the City of
Flint.
   TRUCK. Any single motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of
twenty-six thousand (26,000) pounds or more.
(Ord. 3388, passed 11-23-1998)
§ 28-212 REGULATION OF PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (a)   Except as provided in Subparagraph (C), no person shall park or store
any commercial vehicle, commercial equipment, construction equipment, mobile
structures, or pole trailers upon any public property located in any zoning
district, including but not limited to public streets, stub streets, rights-of-
way, sidewalks, and planting areas between sidewalks and curbs.
   (b)   The parking of commercial vehicles, commercial equipment, construction
equipment, mobile structures or pole trailers, in any residential district
shall be limited to the use of such articles in the performance of a service to
the adjacent property for a reasonable period of the time necessary to complete
such service.
(Ord. 3388, passed 11-23-1998)
§ 28-213 RESPONSIBILITY.
   After receiving one written warning, the owner of the commercial vehicle,
commercial equipment, construction equipment, mobile structures or pole
trailers sought to be stored or parked in violation of this article and the
owner of the property upon which the articles are being kept (unless it is
public property) shall each be responsible for compliance with the terms of
this section/chapter. In any proceeding for violation of any parking or storage
provision of this article, the person to whom the item is registered, as
determined from the registration plate displayed on said item, shall be
presumed in evidence to be the owner of such item. For purposes of determining
the ownership of real property, it shall be presumed that the person whose name
appears on the most recent tax assessment roll of the City of Flint is the
owner of the property.
(Ord. 3388, passed 11-23-1998)
§ 28-214 VARIANCE.
   The requirement of this chapter may be modified or varied by the Zoning
Board of Appeals of the City of Flint provided evidence is presented
establishing that because of topography or other physical conditions of the
property not caused by the applicant, enforcement of the provisions hereunder
would create the most extreme hardship.
(Ord. 3388, passed 11-23-1998)
§ 28-215 VIOLATION.
   Violation of this ordinance is a civil infraction. Any person, or any person
acting on behalf of another person violating any of the provisions of this
article shall upon being found responsible be subject to a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00), unless such fine is suspended, reduced or
waived in the discretion of the Court due to the most grave injustice.
Violations of this article may subject the violator to injunctive relief. Each
day that a violation of this article is continued or permitted to exist without
compliance shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3388, passed 11-23-1998)
§ 28-216 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, paragraph or provision of this ordinance shall be declared
by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such holdings shall not affect
the validity of this ordinance as a whole or any part thereof, other than the
parts so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 3388, passed 11-23-1998)
§ 28-217 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Inspections Division of the Department of Public Works and the
Flint Police Department.
(Ord. 3388, passed 11-23-1998)
ARTICLE XIX. NEIGHBORHOOD TRAFFIC CALMING PROCEDURES
§ 28-218 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as the Neighborhood Traffic Calming Procedure
for the City of Flint.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-219 PURPOSE.
   (a)   Traffic calming is a form of traffic planning that seeks to equalize
the use of streets between automobiles, pedestrians, bicyclists and playing
children. This is accomplished through the use of devices and techniques that
reduce traffic volume and speed in neighborhoods while maintaining maximum
mobility and access. Traffic calming also attempts to make drivers aware of the
fact that they are sharing the space of a street with other users. While
traffic calming will modify traffic patterns, streets will remain in public
ownership and be accessible to the general public.
   (b)   The Traffic Calming ordinance provides a procedure to consider,
evaluate, implement and remove traffic calming measures on residential streets
in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-220 DEFINITIONS.
   The following when used in this article, shall have the following meanings,
unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context of the ordinance:
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any major street in the City that serves as an avenue for
the circulation of traffic onto, out of or around the City and carries high
volumes of traffic.
   COLLECTOR STREET. Any two- or four-lane street that links an arterial street
with another collector street or a local street.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms physically arranged to create an
independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family.
   LOCAL STREET. Any two-lane street with the primary purpose of providing
access to abutting residential properties.
   TRAFFIC CALMING COMMITTEE. An eleven (11) member committee, consisting of
one member from each of the City’s nine wards, appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by the City Council, with two ex officio members, the commander of
the Flint Police Traffic Bureau and the Manager of the Traffic Engineering
Division. The Committee shall have the duty to establish traffic calming
priorities and select streets that will receive traffic calming devices.
   TRAFFIC CALMING STUDY. An appraisal of traffic conditions in the development
of a plan for installing one or more traffic calming devices in a residential
neighborhood.
   TRAFFIC COUNT. A manual or automatic count of the number of vehicles
traversing a particular street in a given period of time.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-221 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TRAFFIC CALMING COMMITTEE.
   (a)   The Traffic Calming Committee, after reviewing recommendations from
the below-listed City staff, shall create a traffic calming application and
establish any additional procedures and policies necessary for the selection,
implementation, evaluation, and removal of traffic calming devices with the
City of Flint. Staff for the Traffic Calming Committee shall consist of
representatives from the Traffic Engineering Division, Office of City Planning,
and Legal Department.
   (b)   The Traffic Calming Committee will review all eligible traffic calming
applications, and, based on funding availability and on priorities and criteria
established by the Committee, select applications for further study, and based
on the findings of the traffic calming study, select traffic calming devices to
be installed by the City. Before installing any traffic calming device, the
Traffic Calming Committee shall also be responsible for holding a public
hearing to measure public support and understanding for traffic calming within
the community where traffic calming devices are proposed.
   (c)   The Traffic Calming Committee shall develop and maintain a sample list
of acceptable traffic calming devices for use within the City of Flint. Such
list shall be attached to the traffic calming application and amended from time
to time as various devices are introduced and tested within the City.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-222 INITIATION OF TRAFFIC CALMING STUDY.
   A traffic calming study shall be considered upon receipt by the Traffic
Calming Committee of an application signed by at least one member of 75% of the
dwelling units having automobile access on the block of the street where a
traffic calming device is requested. If a traffic calming device is proposed at
the intersection of two streets, the signature requirement shall apply to all
intersecting street blocks. In addition to the required signatures, the
application shall identify the traffic problems to be remedied and goals to be
achieved through traffic calming and the suggested traffic calming devices to
be installed.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-223 DATA COLLECTION FOR THE TRAFFIC CALMING STUDY.
   To assist the evaluation of traffic calming requests by the Traffic Calming
Committee, the following data for all streets possibly affected by any proposed
traffic calming device may be collected by the Traffic Engineering Division:
   (a)   Street classification;
   (b)   Posted speed limits;
   (c)   Physical data (number of lanes, width grade and alignment);
   (d)   Traffic counts;
   (e)   Accident and police reports;
   (f)   Community facilities and schools;
   (g)   Alternative routes that traffic may take if traffic calming devices
are installed; and
   (h)   MTA and school bus routes.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-224 TRAFFIC CALMING PRIORITY AND DESIGN CRITERIA.
   The Traffic Calming Committee shall use, but are not limited to, the
following criteria in evaluating traffic calming applications, traffic calming
studies and selecting traffic calming devices to be installed in residential
areas:
   (a)   Street type. Limited to streets classified as collector or local
streets.
   (b)   Speed limit. Street’s current speed limit must be posted as 25 miles
per hour if it is a local street or 30 miles per hour if it is a collector
street.
   (c)   Lanes of traffic. Limited to streets having only one lane of moving
traffic in each direction.
   (d)   Emergency routes. Streets must not be used as the primary route for
fire and rescue equipment.
   (e)   Grade. At the discretion of the Traffic Engineering Manager, certain
traffic calming devices may not be used if street grades are too steep.
   (f)   Sight distances. At the discretion of the Traffic Engineering Manager,
certain traffic calming devices may not be used if curves or obstacles would
create an unsafe condition for motorists driving at posted speeds under average
driving conditions.
   (g)   Community facilities. Priority shall be given to streets that do not
provide direct access to schools or other community facilities.
   (h)   Bus routes. Streets with mass transit shall be considered for traffic
calming if such routes can be redirected to other streets.
   (i)   Truck routes. The street may not be a truck route, unless an
acceptable alternate route is identified.
   (j)   Pedestrian/bicycle safety. The installation of traffic calming devices
shall enhance pedestrian and bicycle safety.
   (k)   Drainage. The installation of traffic calming devices shall not
adversely affect street drainage.
   (l)   Consistency with transportation plans. The installation of any traffic
calming device shall not conflict with any adopted transportation plan or
proposed street improvement.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-225 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   The Traffic Calming Committee shall hold a neighborhood public hearing prior
to the installation of any traffic calming device. The Traffic Calming
Committee shall erect public notice signs at the location of each proposed
traffic calming device at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
The signs shall describe the proposed traffic devices to be installed, set
forth the time and place of the public hearing, and provide a phone number for
additional information.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-226 INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC CALMING DEVICES.
   (a)   Scheduling. The installation of traffic calming devices shall be
scheduled by the Director of Transportation upon approval by the Traffic
Calming Committee and identification of funding sources.
   (b)   Project completion. Completion of the installation of a traffic
calming device shall be subject to work crew schedules, purchasing constraints
and appropriate weather conditions.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
§ 28-227 EVALUATION, MODIFICATION, REMOVAL.
   (a)   Evaluation. The Traffic Engineering Division shall evaluate traffic
calming projects from a safety perspective within one year after installation.
The evaluation will include, at a minimum, a review of traffic volumes, speeds,
and accidents.
   (b)   Modification or removal. Upon a finding by the Traffic Engineering
Manager of a hazardous situation or condition created by a traffic calming
device, said situation shall be immediately corrected through modification or
removal of traffic calming device or devices. Residents of an affected area
may,
upon submission of a petition to the Traffic Calming Committee signed by at
least one member of 75% of the dwelling units having automobile access on the
block of the street where a traffic calming device is located, request its
removal. In the instance that a traffic calming device is located at the
intersection of two streets, the signature requirement shall apply to all
intersecting street blocks.
(Ord. 3499, passed 9-23-2002)
CHAPTER 29: MUNICIPAL RETAIL AND WHOLESALE GROWERS’ MARKET
Section
   
29-1   Area designated
   
29-2   Operation of the Municipal Retail and Wholesale Growers’ Market
   
29-3   Market Supervisor — appointments
   
29-4   Same — duties generally
   
29-5   Permit to sell; lessee insurance policy; “hold harmless” agreement;
display of permit card
   
29-6   Items to be marked as to name and price
   
29-7   Space — application; rental fees; priority of assignment
   
29-8   Same — payment of rental fees; sublease
   
29-9   Cancellation of permit or lease
   
29-10   Frequenting after regular business hours
   
29-11   Interference with sale or preparation of items; disorderly conduct and
the like
   
29-12   Hawking; auctioning
   
29-13   Leaving refuse; killing or dressing animals or fowl
   
29-14   Sale of meat, cheese and the like
   
29-15   All goods sold at market to meet stated local regulations
   
29-16   Records of sellers
   
29-17   Violation of no-smoking policy; termination of lease agreement
§ 29-1 AREA DESIGNATED.
   The parcel of land containing 5.431 acres situated in Blocks K and H of John
Lucas Replat of John Birchmore’s Addition and in part of Section 7 of the
Indian Reservation of eleven sections at and near the Grand Traverse of the
Flint River, in accordance with the description on file with the City Engineer,
City of Flint, is hereby designated as the Municipal Retail and Wholesale
Growers’ Market.
(Ord. 411, passed 3-31-1941)
§ 29-2 OPERATION OF THE MUNICIPAL RETAIL AND WHOLESALE GROWERS’ MARKET.
   (a)   This chapter shall not apply and shall be of no effect if Municipal
Retail and Wholesale Growers’ Market is operated by an entity other than the
City of Flint, pursuant to a validly executed and legally binding lease with
the City. The terms and conditions of the validly executed lease shall govern
the operation of the Municipal Retail and Wholesale Growers’ Market.
   (b)   The Director of Purchasing, or his duly authorized representative,
shall establish, by rule, the days of the week and the hours of the day that
the market shall be kept open for business and he shall cause a posting of the
hours and days in a conspicuous place in the market structure.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 2116, passed 7-14-1969; Ord. 2568, passed 11-
8-1976; Ord. 3126, passed 2-12-1990; Ord. 3497, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 29-3 MARKET SUPERVISOR — APPOINTMENTS.
   The general supervision of the market shall be under the direction of the
Market Supervisor, duly appointed by the Director of Purchasing.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 2145, passed 7-14-1969; Ord. 3126, passed 2-
12-1990)
§ 29-4 SAME — DUTIES GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the Market Supervisor to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, to maintain the market in a clean and sanitary condition, to
conduct the business of the market in a clean and sanitary condition, to
conduct the business of the market in an orderly and efficient manner and to
adopt and carry on a system of bookkeeping and such other systems pertaining to
financial records as prescribed by the Department of Finance of the City.
   His duty shall be to check and determine if any Federal or State laws or
provisions of this Code or other rules and regulations relative to market
operations are being violated. The Market Supervisor shall have the ability to
promulgate such reasonable rules and regulations as are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter and other applicable laws, rules and regulations
as may from time to time deem necessary to safeguard the public health and
welfare at the City Market.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 3174, passed 6-10-1991)
§ 29-5 PERMIT TO SELL; LESSEE INSURANCE POLICY; “HOLD HARMLESS” AGREEMENT;
DISPLAY OF PERMIT CARD.
   (a)   Any person desiring to sell upon the market shall first secure a
permit therefor from the Market Supervisor.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued hereunder until and unless the applicant for
the permit shall have paid to the Market Supervisor a permit fee which shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. The applicant
shall also furnish to the Market Supervisor a copy of his or her insurance
policy which will provide for a minimum of $500,000.00 of product liability
coverage and $500,000.00 of general liability coverage for his or her
operations at the market. The applicant shall enter into a “hold harmless”
agreement with the city, agreeing to protect the city and save the city
harmless from any and all claims or liabilities arising out of the sale of
products at the market. The “hold harmless” agreement and lease agreement shall
be approved as to form by the Chief Legal Officer.
   (c)   No seller upon the market shall occupy space thereon unless there is
posted prominently upon or about his location a current permit card with the
name and address of the seller and the market permit number printed thereon.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 1760, passed 4-6-1964; Ord. 2145, passed 7-14-
1969; Ord. 2245, passed 1-18-1971; Ord. 3126, passed 2-12-1990; Ord. 3169,
passed 5-28-1992; Ord. 3302, passed 7-30-1995; Ord. 3413, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 29-6 ITEMS TO BE MARKED AS TO NAME AND PRICE.
   All items offered for sale shall be clearly marked both as to the name of
the item and the price.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 1915, passed 6-27-1966; Ord. 2145, passed 7-
14-1969)
§ 29-7 SPACE — APPLICATION; RENTAL FEES; PRIORITY OF ASSIGNMENT.
   (a)   Those persons who have secured a permit pursuant to §
29-5, may make application to occupy a specific space, on the following terms
and conditions.
      (1)   The Director of Purchasing or his duly authorized representative
shall establish rental fees for space at the Flint Municipal Market. Rental
fees for space shall be established consistent with the costs of utilities and
the general market operation.
      (2)   Annual rental fees shall be for the period of July 1 through June
30 of the following year.
      (3)   Six-month rental fees shall be for the period of May 1 through
October 31.
      (4)   Monthly rental fees shall be for the period from the first day of
the month through the last day of the month.
      (5)   Daily rental fees shall be for a specific day. The Director of
Purchasing shall be furnished a current schedule of rental fees being levied at
the Flint Municipal Market. Interested parties may secure copies of the current
rental fee schedule at the market office.
      (6)   Space areas which occupy more floor space than a standard six-foot
table stall or have a greater lineal foot frontage (at corners) may be leased
on an annual basis at a rate negotiated by the vendor, the Market Supervisor
and the Director of Purchasing.
      (7)   Fees for the use of all or portions of the market for special
events, shall be set by the Market Supervisor and approved by the Director of
Purchasing or his duly authorized representative.
   (b)   Other circumstances being equal, sellers having the longer continuous
records of selling on the market shall have priority in the assignment of
spaces. Where seniority is not involved, and all other circumstances are equal,
priority shall be given in accordance with the order of filing of applications.
The Market Supervisor shall maintain a written policy on the priority relative
to other circumstances, such as, but not limited to, period of rental (annual,
six months, monthly and the like), type of sale item, physical requirements and
the like.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 2145, passed 7-14-1969; Ord. 2245, passed 1-
18-1971; Ord. 2305, passed 1-10-1972; Ord. 2568, passed 11-8-1976; Ord. 3126,
passed 2-12-1990)   
§ 29-8 SAME — PAYMENT OF RENTAL FEES; SUBLEASE.
   Rental fees shall be payable in advance at the office of the Treasurer and
no space may be occupied until such payment is made. Unoccupied space after the
hour of 8:30 a.m. may be rented by the day, unless the Market Supervisor is
notified prior to that time of a reservation of the space by the existing
tenant. No space shall be subleased except by the Market Supervisor.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 1823, passed 3-29-1965; Ord. 2245, passed 1-
18-1971; Ord. 2568, passed 11-8-1976; Ord. 3126, passed 2-12-1990)   
§ 29-9 CANCELLATION OF PERMIT OR LEASE.
   The Director of Purchasing may, upon recommendation by the Market
Supervisor, revoke and cancel the permit or lease upon thirty (30) days written
notification to the lease.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 2568, passed 11-8-1976; Ord. 3126, passed 2-
12-1990)   
§ 29-10 FREQUENTING AFTER REGULAR BUSINESS HOURS.
   No person shall occupy or frequent the market for other than business
purposes outside of regular business hours, and any such occupation, visitation
or frequenting shall constitute a trespass.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932)
§ 29-11 INTERFERENCE WITH SALE OR PREPARATION OF ITEMS; DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND
THE LIKE.
   No person shall interfere with the sale or preparation for sale of any item
presented for sale on the market, nor shall any person engaged in any noisy,
boisterous, profane, or disorderly conduct on the market premises.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 2145, passed 7-19-1969)
§ 29-12 HAWKING; AUCTIONING.
   There shall be no hawking or crying of goods for sale, and no person shall
sell at auction any article of any kind whatsoever within the limits of the
Flint Municipal Market unless a special auction permit is obtained from the
Market Supervisor for a fee established by the Market Supervisor based on the
anticipated auction receipts.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 2568, passed 11-8-1976)
§ 29-13 LEAVING REFUSE; KILLING OR DRESSING ANIMALS OR FOWL.
   No person shall place or leave, or cause to be placed or left, in or about
the market place, any waste, offal, garbage, or other refuse or matter, and no
person shall kill or dress in such market place any animal or fowl.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 2145, passed 7-19-1969)
§ 29-14 SALE OF MEAT, CHEESE AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   Meat, cheese, frozen fish and frozen seafood offered for sale shall be
kept in a commercial-type mechanical refrigeration display case. Refrigerated
cases shall be furnished and installed at the expense of the tenant. Each case
must be approved by the Market Supervisor prior to use. Applicants for space
shall qualify as required in previous sections of this chapter.
   (b)   (1)   The rental fees shall be set by the Market Supervisor and
approved by the Director of Purchasing based on a combination of the following:
         a.   Location;
         b.   Lineal foot frontage; and
         c.   Total square footage occupied.
   (2)   Rental fees will be established consistent with the cost of utilities
and the general marketing operation.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 1679, passed 6-18-1962; Ord. 2016, passed 11-
27-1967; Ord. 2145, passed 7-14-1969; Ord. 2568, passed 11-8-1976; Ord. 3126,
passed 2-12-1990)   
§ 29-15 ALL GOODS SOLD AT MARKET TO MEET STATED LOCAL REGULATIONS.
   Sale of goods must meet stated local regulations.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 1752, passed 1-27-1964; Ord. 2568, passed 11-
8-1976; Ord. 3126, passed 2-12-1990)   
§ 29-16 RECORDS OF SELLERS.
   The Market Supervisor may require at intervals, not to exceed four per
month, that each seller keep record of the number of customers on the market
day designated for such tabulation. Forms for these records shall be provided
by the City of Flint.
(Ord. 411, passed 2-8-1932; Ord. 2145, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 29-17 VIOLATION OF NO-SMOKING POLICY; TERMINATION OF LEASE AGREEMENT.
   Each seller must be responsible for ensuring that he and their employees
observe the market’s no- smoking policy. Failure to observe the no-smoking
policy will be documented by the Market Supervisor and after three documented
occurrences, the lease agreement shall be terminated.
(Ord. 3126, passed 2-12-1990)
CHAPTER 30: NUISANCES *
Section
   
30-1   Acts declared a nuisance; abatement
   
30-2   Throwing glass, rubbish and the like
   
30-2.1   Same — reward for information resulting in conviction of perpetrator
   
30-3   Keeping animals or vegetable matter which cause offensive conditions
   
30-4   Maintenance or construction of privy or privy vault
   
30-5   Vehicles hauling garbage and the like
   
30-6   Abatement
   
30-7   Discharging foul or nauseous liquids, steam, gas and the like
   
30-8   Placing or discharging waste matter into rivers or streams
   
30-9   Cement — unloading; causing dust
   
30-10   Definitions for §§ 30-11 – 30-36
   
30-11   Litter or junk in public places
   
30-12   Same — on private property
   
30-13   Same — on vacant lots
   
30-14   Placement of litter to prevent scattering
   
30-15   Streets and sidewalks to be free of litter
   
30-16   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
30-17   Truck loads causing litter
   
30-18   Litter or junk in parks
   
30-19   Litter in lakes, rivers and fountains
   
30-20   Throwing or distributing handbills in public places
   
30-21   Placing handbills on vehicles
   
30-22   Depositing handbills on uninhabited or vacant premises
   
30-23   Distributing handbills at inhabited premises; exemption for certain
items
   
30-24   Dropping litter from aircraft
   
30-25   Posting notices
   
30-26   Unlawful storage of building materials
   
30-27   Removal of junk, litter or building materials from public premises
   
30-28   Removal of trash from public premises
   
30-29   Removal of junk property, litter, abandoned property or building
materials from private premises
   
30-30   Removal of trash from private premises
   
30-30.1   Violations deemed nuisance; authority of City to abate
   
30-30.2   Reserved
   
30-30.3   Dangerous or hazardous substances or materials
   
30-30.4   Leakage or spillage of dangerous or hazardous substances and
materials to be cleaned up
   
30-30.5   Failure to comply with responsibility for costs
   
30-30.6   Failure to pay costs of cleanup; remedies of City
   
30-31   Limitation
   
30-32   Prosecution for violation of §§ 30-1 – 30-30; issuance of appearance
ticket
   
30-33   Penalty and designation of certain sections as municipal civil
infractions
   
30-34   Increase in fine or imprisonment for second or subsequent violation
   
30-35   Notice of violation
   
30-36   Provisions of §§ 30-10 – 30-35 not to constitute permission to do acts
prohibited by other law
   
30-37   Findings with respect to drug use
   
30-38   Use of controlled substances or drug paraphernalia; public nuisance;
notice of hearing
   
30-39   Abatement of nuisance; costs
   
30-40   Persuasive presumption of public nuisance
   
31-41   Drag racing
Cross-reference:
   Burial in unauthorized area, see §
13-2
   Dangerous fences, see §
17-5
   Dumping ground, see §
39-41
   Filling station, operating without permit, see §
12-142
   Trees and shrubs, obstructions at intersections, see §
45-3
   Wells, contaminated, see §
46-28
§ 30-1 ACTS DECLARED A NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   The acts, conditions and the like described in this chapter are hereby
declared to be nuisances and may be abated in the manner prescribed by law.
§ 30-2 THROWING GLASS, RUBBISH AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall himself or by another throw, place, deposit or leave in any
street, highway, lane, alley, public place or square or any private place or
premises any glass, unbroken or broken, or any matter, stone, earthenware,
tacks or other substances of any nature likely to cause injury to travelers or
pedestrians, to carriages, automobiles, bicycles or other vehicles, or injure
any horse or other animals or which might injure, cut or puncture any pneumatic
tire, nor shall any person shall himself or for another throw, place, deposit
or leave in any street, highway, lane or alley, public place or square, or in
any private place or premises, any animal or vegetable substance, dead animal,
fish, shavings, paper, dirt, rubbish, filth, slops, unclean or nauseous water,
liquid or gaseous fluids, hay, straw, soot, offal, garbage, swill or any other
article or substance whatever.
(Ord. 297, passed 5-8-1939)
Cross-reference:
   Duty to keep sidewalks and the like free of litter, see §
30-15
§ 30-2.1 SAME — REWARD FOR INFORMATION RESULTING IN CONVICTION OF PERPETRATOR.
   Where information furnished by an individual to the Police and/or Public
Works Department has resulted in a fine for unlawful dumping, the City Council
may authorize and direct the Finance Director to pay the individual a reward in
the amount of 50% of any fine collected from the offender. The Chief of Police,
the Director of Public Works and the Chief Legal Officer or their respective
designee shall constitute a committee to investigate all claims for such
rewards and shall make recommendations for payment or nonpayment of the rewards
to the City Council. It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or willfully
to give false information to the police or Department of Public Works relative
to illegal dumping. No employee of the City Council, the Police, Public Works
or Law Departments shall be entitled to any rewards under this section.
(Ord. 2884, passed 8-8-1983; Ord. 2997, passed 6-23-1986; Ord. 3236, passed 6-
28-1993)
§ 30-3 KEEPING ANIMALS OR VEGETABLE MATTER WHICH CAUSE OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS.
   (a)   No person shall keep, place or have on or in any private house, place
of business, lot or premises within the City, any dead carcass, putrid or
offensive or unsound beef, pork, fish, hides, skins, bones, horns, stinking or
rotten soap grease, tallow, offal, garbage or other animal or vegetable matter
or substance which may cause any unwholesome, obnoxious or offensive smell.
   (b)   No person shall collect or confine any horse, cattle, sheep, hog, fowl
or other domestic or undomesticated animal, bird or fowl in pens, cages,
stables, coops or otherwise so as to create an unwholesome, unsightly,
malodorous, obnoxious or offensive condition except as otherwise allowed by
Chapter 9, Article III.
   (c)   An unwholesome, offensive or obnoxious smell or condition is one that
is of such intensity and duration as to be injurious to human, plant or animal
life, to health, or to property or to unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment
of life and property.
   (d)   Any person who keeps animals or vegetable matter in such a manner as
to violate the terms of this article, shall be deemed to commit the offense of
creating a public nuisance by the action and the designated City officials are
hereby authorized to enter into and upon the real estate to abate the nuisance,
where the owner has been given notice and time to abate and has failed to do
so. The cost of abating the nuisance shall be billed to the property owner(s).
In the event of failure of the owner or owners to pay the costs, the same may
be added to the next ad valorem tax roll delivered to the City Treasurer for
collection and collected in manner of ad valorem property taxes.
   (e)   Violation of subsection (a) or (b) above shall be a civil infraction
punishable by a fine of not less than $300.00.
   (f)   The first time any person keeps vegetable matter in such a manner as
to violate subsection (d) above, the violation shall be a civil infraction
punishable by a fine of not less than $300.00; provided however, that the fine
will be waived if the person presents proof that since being cited for the
offense they have completed a course instructing them on the proper keeping of
compost material.
(Ord. 297, passed 5-8-1939; Ord. 3346, passed 6-9-1997; Ord. 3770, passed 6-14-
2010)
§ 30-4 MAINTENANCE OR CONSTRUCTION OF PRIVY OR PRIVY VAULT.
   No person shall hereafter maintain or construct a privy or privy vault
unless such privy or privy vault be constructed and maintained according to the
regulations of the Department of Public Health of the City of Flint, which
regulations shall be furnished by the Department of Public Health on
application, and no person shall hereafter construct a privy or privy vault
without first obtaining from the Department of Public Health of the City of
Flint a permit for that purpose; provided further, that temporary privies or
toilets for workmen employed on construction work and for use at carnivals,
circuses and other traveling tent shows may be used if approved in advance by
the Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 297, passed 5-8-1939)
§ 30-5 VEHICLES HAULING GARBAGE AND THE LIKE.
   Any cart, wagon or truck or other vehicle used for the purpose of conveying
away swill, offal, garbage or excrement shall be perfectly tight and covered so
as to prevent the contents from leaking, spilling or becoming offensive because
of odor, and no such cart, wagon or vehicle when not actually in use, shall be
allowed in any street, lane, alley or public place within the City of Flint.
(Ord. 297, passed 5-8-1939)
§ 30-6 ABATEMENT.
   The Director of Public Health of the City of Flint shall have the power and
it is hereby made his duty to abate all nuisances herein designated which may
be injurious to the public health of said City. The Director of Public Health
is hereby authorized and directed to cause the removal of all privies and privy
vaults not constructed or maintained pursuant to the regulations of said
Department of Public Health. Said Director of Public Health and all persons
acting under his orders and directions in removing such privies or privy vaults
and abating such nuisances shall not be liable to any person constructing or
making any such privy or privy vault, for any damages on account of such
abatement and removal thereof.
(Ord. 297, passed 5-8-1939)
§ 30-7 DISCHARGING FOUL OR NAUSEOUS LIQUIDS, STEAM, GAS AND THE LIKE.
   No distiller, dyer, machinist, manufacturer or other person shall himself or
by others, discharge out of or from any stillhouse, dye house, workshop,
factory, machine shop, dwelling house, kitchen or other building any foul or
nauseous liquid, water or other substance into or upon any highway, street,
alley, lane, public space or square, or into any aforesaid road or ground, or
deposit or allow to be deposited any refuse, drippings or nauseous liquids or
other substances from distributing pipes of gas conductors into any sewer,
receiving basin, gutter or other public place within the City, or force or
discharge into any public or private sewer or drain, any steam vapor or gas.
(Ord. 297, passed 5-8-1939)
§ 30-8 PLACING OR DISCHARGING WASTE MATTER INTO RIVERS OR STREAMS.
   No person or persons, firm or corporation shall within the City limits of
the City of Flint, place, deposit, throw or empty, or permit to be placed,
deposited, thrown or emptied into the waters of the Flint River or any other
stream within the City, any dead carcass or any decaying animal, vegetable or
mineral matter, or any waste oil, coal tar, or sawdust, or any chemical refuse
or any industrial waste, or any straw, hay, green boughs, manure, cord wood,
vegetables, excrement, bones, horns, shells, meats, hides, offal, rubbish,
garbage or any other substance of any unwholesome, unsightly, malodorous,
contaminating, polluting or obnoxious nature.
(Ord. 297, passed 5-8-1939)
§ 30-9 CEMENT — UNLOADING; CAUSING DUST.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to unload, permit or cause to be
unloaded any bulk cement from trucks or other vehicles into vats or bins at
bulk cement mixing plants in the City, without providing a completely enclosed
device, chute or passage through which the bulk cement can pass from the truck
or vehicle into the bin or vat, which completely enclosed device, chute or
passage will prevent the dissemination, blowing or dispersing of cement dust
into the atmosphere. All persons engaged in the business of operating a bulk
cement mixing plant in the City shall cause such a completely enclosed device,
chute or passage to be installed at all openings into bins or vats where bulk
cement is so unloaded.
   (b)   The unloading, transfer or transportation of cement or concrete to, at
or from a bulk cement mixing plant in violation of this section, or in such a
manner as to permit cement dust to be released into the atmosphere whether on
private property or on any public property or public right-of-way, is hereby
declared to in injurious to the health, safety and comfort of the public of the
City, and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (c)   The term BULK CEMENT MIXING PLANT when used in this section shall mean
a place where concrete or mortar is mixed or prepared for ultimate use at some
other premises.
(Ord. 652, passed 11-11-1946)
§ 30-10 DEFINITIONS FOR §§ 30-11 – 30-36.
   As used in §§
30-11 through
30-36, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them.
   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Deteriorated, wrecked or derelict property in usable
condition, having no value other than nominal scrap or junk value, if any, and
which has been left unprotected from the elements, including, without being so
restricted, deteriorated, wrecked, inoperative or partially dismantled motor
vehicles, trailers, boats, machinery, refrigerators, washing machines,
plumbing, fixtures, furniture and any other similar articles in that condition.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or
designated for navigation or for flight in the air, including, but not limited
to airplanes, helicopters, lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE. A litter storage or collection receptacle as required
by published rules and regulations of the Director of Public Works and
Utilities.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Any materials useful in the construction of buildings or
other structures, and/or materials generated from demolition and/or
rehabilitation of buildings or other structures, all of which includes, but are
not limited to, lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing materials,
electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar,
concrete and cement.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any employee of the City of Flint so designated by the
City Administrator.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food and which is not
properly contained in an authorized receptacle.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any other
printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature
other than a newspaper.
   JUNK PROPERTY. Deteriorated, wrecked or derelict property not in usable
condition, having no value other than nominal scrap value, if any, and which
has been left unprotected from the elements, including, without being so
restricted, deteriorated, wrecked inoperative or partially dismantled motor
vehicles, aircraft, trailers, water craft, other recreational vehicles, and/or
parts thereof, machinery, refrigerators, washing machines, other household
appliances, plumbing fixtures, furniture, and any other such property in such
condition and which is not properly contained in an authorized receptacle.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, rubbish and trash as defined herein and all other
waste material which, if thrown, deposited, stored, accumulated or allowed to
accumulate as herein prohibited, would tend to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER. A newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any
newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United States, in
accordance with Federal statute or regulations, and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in
addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the
public.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center, or any
other public area in the City, owned or used by the City and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
   PARKWAY. A strip of land located between a sidewalk and a physical street,
whether the land is located on a part of the street right-of-way or not.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any place other than a private premises, a public
building or a public place.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used, whether wholly or in part, for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously inhabited or vacant and shall include
any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox, belonging
or appurtenant to the dwelling, house, building or other structure and any
portion of a street right-of-way immediately adjoining the premises which
separates the premises from a roadway.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned or occupied by any governmental agency.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any premises, including, but not limited to, streets,
including street rights-of-way, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other public
right-of-way, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings owned by, in possession of or under control of the United States of
America, the State of Michigan, the County of Genesee, or the City of Flint, or
any agency or political subdivision of any government.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle furnished by
any person or by any governmental agency for use by the public.
   REFUSE. Any putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including, but not limited to, garbage, leaves from trees, rubbish, ashes and
solid market and industrial wastes and which is not properly contained in an
authorized receptacle.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, including, but not limited to, paper, wrappings,
cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials and which is not properly contained in an authorized receptacle.
   TRASH. All of the following when not properly contained in an authorized
receptacle.
      (1)   ASHES. The residue left from burning paper, leaves, weeds, wood and
coal.
      (2)   GARBAGE. All organic refuse and rejected food wastes.
      (3)   HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. All types of household materials commonly
discarded, such as newspapers, magazines, books, wrappings, cartons, boxes,
crates, excelsior, rags, clothing, bedding, floor covering, wallpaper, leather
objects, and sweepings.
      (4)   KITCHEN RUBBISH. All types of food containers and wrappings,
including cans, bottles, jars, broken glass, crockery, paper and wood boxes and
metal objects.
      (5)   YARD RUBBISH. All materials which grow on the property which are to
be disposed of, such as grass clippings, vegetable and other garden debris,
weed, leaves, plants, clippings from hedges and shrubs, branches or tree
trimmings less than four feet in length and two inches in diameter from trees
and bushes; provided, that none of the items above named were produced from the
work of commercial landscape, tree trimming men or utility companies, that can
be converted to compost humus. It does not include stumps, agricultural wastes,
animal wastes, roots, sewage sludge or garbage.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2672, passed 10-23-1978; Ord. 2916, passed
7-23-1984; Ord. 3206, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 30-11 LITTER OR JUNK IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit building materials, litter and/or junk in
or upon any sidewalk, parkway, gutter, street, alley or other public places
within the City except in public receptacles, in authorized receptacles for
collection or in an official collection or disposal site.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3206, passed 6-8-1992; Ord. 3525, passed
5-5-2004)
§ 30-12 SAME — ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit building materials, litter and/or junk on
any occupied private property within the City, whether owned by the person or
not, except that the owner or person in control of private property may
maintain public receptacles or authorized receptacles for collection in such a
manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any place.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3157, passed 2-11-1991; Ord. 3206, passed
6-8-1992; Ord. 3526, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 30-13 SAME — ON VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit building materials, litter and/or junk
property on any open or vacant private property within the City, whether owned
by the person or not.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3206, passed 6-8-1992; Ord. 3527, passed
5-5-2004)
§ 30-14 PLACEMENT OF LITTER TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized receptacles
shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited
by the elements upon any place.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-15 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS TO BE FREE OF LITTER.
   All persons occupying any place of business, public building or private
premises shall keep their place of business, public building or private
property, as the case may be, including the sidewalk, parkway, gutter, catch
basin, street or alley adjoining or abutting to the place so occupied, free and
clear of litter and/or junk property. To this end:
   (a)   No person or authority owning, occupying or in control of a place of
business, public building, or private premises shall sweep into or deposit, or
cause to be swept or deposited in any sidewalk, parkway, gutter, catch basin,
street or alley, or other public place within the City an accumulation of
litter, including leaves from trees, from any place of business, public
building or private premises, except the placing of leaves or bagged or bundled
refuse for immediate collection by authorized refuse collectors as provided for
elsewhere in this Code.
   (b)   The occupier of a place of business and the authority in control of a
public building shall collect and dispose of all litter on the premises of the
place of business or public building, as the case may be, in authorized
receptacles, including the sidewalk and parkway adjoining or abutting to the
premises.
      (1)   For the purpose of this subsection, the operator of any shopping
center shall be deemed to be the occupier of all common areas of the shopping
center, including, but not limited to parking areas, parking lots, and
landscaped areas which are not leased or rented to any particular tenant, but
not including any sidewalks, parkways or gutters adjoining or abutting to any
premises rented to a particular tenant.
   (c)   The occupier of any private premises shall keep said premises free of
all litter and/or junk property and shall dispose of the litter and/or junk
property only in a manner consistent with this chapter and other laws.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3206, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 30-16 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   (a)   No person, while an operator or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the City, or upon
private property, nor shall any operator of a vehicle allow or permit the
throwing or disposing of any litter from the vehicle by himself or herself or
by any passenger thereof upon any street or other public place within the City,
or upon private property.
   (b)   In any prosecution under this section, proof of ownership of the
vehicle involved shall constitute a prima facie showing that the owner allowed
or permitted the throwing or disposing of any litter from the vehicle.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-17 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move, or direct or employ a driver to drive or
move, any truck or other vehicle within the City unless the truck or other
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter
from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public right-of-
way; nor shall any person drive or move or direct or employ a driver to drive
or move, any vehicle or truck within the City, the wheels or tires of which
carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
Cross-reference:
   Vehicles hauling garbage and the like, see §
30-5
§ 30-18 LITTER OR JUNK IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter and/or junk property in any park
within the City except in public receptacles and in such a manner that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
place. Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be
carried away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and
properly disposed of elsewhere as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3206, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 30-19 LITTER IN LAKES, RIVERS AND FOUNTAINS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter and/or junk property in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream, river, or any other body of water, in a park or
elsewhere within the City.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3206, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 30-20 THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any sidewalk,
parkway, gutter, street, or other public place within the City, nor shall any
person hand out or distribute or sell any handbill in any public place unless
the handbill is distributed without charge to the receiver thereof, only to any
person willing to accept it.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-21 PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any vehicle;
however, it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out
or distribute without charge to the receiver thereof a handbill to any occupant
of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-22 DEPOSITING HANDBILLS ON UNINHABITED OR VACANT PREMISES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any private
premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-23 DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS AT INHABITED PREMISES; EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN
ITEMS.
   (a)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any handbill in or upon
private premises which are inhabited except by handing or transmitting any such
handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or
upon the private premises, except that the person, unless requested by anyone
upon the premises not to do so, may place or deposit the handbill in or upon
the inhabited private premises, if the handbill is so placed or deposited as to
secure or prevent the handbill from being blown or drifted about the premises
or sidewalks, streets or other public places, except that mailboxes may not be
so used when so prohibited by Federal postal law or regulations.
   (b)   The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to the distribution
of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall
be placed on private property in such a manner as to prevent their being
carried or deposited by the elements in an unbound condition upon any sidewalk,
parkway, gutter, street, alley or other public place or upon private property.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-24 DROPPING LITTER FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the City
any litter, handbill or any other object.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-25 POSTING NOTICES.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamp post, public
utility pole or shade tree, or upon any public land, public structure or
building, except as may be authorized or required by law.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-26 UNLAWFUL STORAGE OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   No person shall place or leave or cause to be placed or left, building
materials on public premises within the City nor keep, store, or cause or
permit to be placed, left, kept or stored, building materials on private
premises or the parkway adjacent to the property, except within the walls of a
previously erected building within the City unless there is in force a valid
building permit issued by the City for construction upon the property and the
materials are intended for use in the construction, unless this storage is
explicitly permitted by
Chapter 5.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3206, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 30-27 REMOVAL OF JUNK, LITTER OR BUILDING MATERIALS FROM PUBLIC PREMISES.
   (a)   When an Enforcement Officer shall find an item of junk property or an
accumulation of building materials on public premises within the City, he or
she shall cause a notice to be placed upon the item or in the immediate
vicinity of several such items in substantially the following form:
      NOTICE TO THE OWNER AND ALL PERSONS INTERESTED IN THE ATTACHED PROPERTY:
This property, to wit: (setting forth a brief description) is unlawfully upon
public property known as (setting forth brief description of location), and in
violation of Section        of Chapter        of the Code of the City of Flint
and must be removed within 48 hours from the date and time of this notice;
otherwise, it shall be presumed to be abandoned property and will be stored
and/otherwise disposed of by order of the City of Flint.
Dated this                                         
   (setting forth date of posting notice)
Signed                                              (setting forth title,
business address and business telephone number of Enforcement Officer).
   (b)   Such notice shall be not less than five inches by eight inches and
shall be sufficiently weatherproof to withstand normal exposure to the
elements. In addition to posting, the Enforcement Officer shall make reasonable
efforts to ascertain the name and address of the owner of the item or items;
and if such is reasonably available to the Enforcement Officer, he or she shall
mail a copy of the notice to the owner on or before the date of posting.
   (c)   If, at the expiration of the time stated in the notice, the owner or
any person interested in the abandoned item or items described in the notice
has not removed them from the public premises, the Enforcement Officer may
cause the item or items of abandoned property to be removed, stored and/or
otherwise disposed of, and the salvage value, if any, of the item or items
shall be retained by the City of Flint, to be applied against the cost of
disposal thereof. In the event the salvage proceeds exceed the cost of disposal
of the abandoned property, the excess shall be held for a period of 30 days for
the benefit of the former owner of the property, upon proof of such ownership
within 30 days of the disposal of the property. If after 30 days the excess has
not been properly claimed, it shall be applied to the general fund of the City
of Flint.
   (d)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the summary removal of any
property from public premises in order to alleviate emergency conditions.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2672, passed 10-23-1978; Ord. 3206, passed
6-8-1992; Ord. 3528, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 30-28 REMOVAL OF TRASH FROM PUBLIC PREMISES.
   Trash on public premises may be removed without notice or compensation.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-29 REMOVAL OF JUNK PROPERTY, LITTER, ABANDONED PROPERTY OR BUILDING
MATERIALS FROM PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (a)   Whenever the Enforcement Officer shall find junk property, litter and/
or abandoned property or building materials on private premises within the City
in violation of this chapter, he or she shall cause a notice to be placed on
the premises in substantially the following form:
      NOTICE TO THE OWNER AND ALL PERSONS INTERESTED IN THESE PREMISES: The
junk property, litter/building material(s) to wit: (setting forth a brief
description of the location) is improperly stored in violation of Section
         of Chapter           of the Code of the City of Flint. Within two
business days, unless the property owner makes a request to the Chief
Administrative Officer based on good cause for an extension of time up to five
additional days, if this junk property is not removed or a request for a
hearing has not been filed with the Chief Administrative Officer, upon the
applicability of the above ordinance to the condition of these premises, it
shall be deemed a violation and the junk property, litter/building materials
will be stored and/or otherwise disposed of by order of the City of Flint.
Except as otherwise provided by law, costs of such removal, storage and/or
other disposition will be charged to these premises.
Dated this                                          
   (setting forth date of posting of notice)
Signed                                              (setting forth name, title,
business address and telephone number of the Enforcement Officer).
   (b)   The notice shall be not less than five inches by eight inches and
shall be sufficiently weatherproof to withstand normal exposure to the
elements. In addition to posting, the Enforcement Officer shall mail a copy of
the notice to the owner of the real property upon which the junk property,
litter/building material(s) is (are) located, as shown by the records of the
City Assessor, on or before the date of posting of the notice and to the owner
of the article or articles, if ownership can reasonably be ascertained.
   (c)   If at the expiration of the time stated in the notice the owner or any
person interested in the premises described in the notice has not corrected or
abated the condition of the premises or requested a hearing on the
applicability of this Code provision to the condition, the Enforcement Officer
may cause the abatement of the condition. If the junk property, litter and/or
building materials has or have salvage value, the Enforcement Officer may sell
the junk property, litter or building materials and the salvage value, if any,
from the sale shall be retained by the City of Flint to be applied against the
abatement. If the proceeds from the salvage of the junk property, litter and/or
building materials be less than the costs, the deficiency shall be charged
against the premises. In the event the salvage proceeds exceed the costs, any
excess shall be held for a period of 30 days for the benefit of the former
owner of the property sold and, upon proof of ownership within 30 days after
the sale of the property, the excess shall be paid to the former owner. If
after 30 days, the excess has not been properly claimed, it shall be applied to
the general fund of the City of Flint.
   (d)   If a hearing is requested within the time limits stated in the notice
by the owner of the private premises or a person claiming an interest in
personal property thereon, the Chief Administrative Officer shall appoint a
hearing officer to conduct a public hearing in order for the person requesting
the hearing to show cause why he or she should not be required to remove the
property in question or the City of Flint should not dispose of the property.
   (e)   The hearing procedures shall be those established by the Chief
Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2672, passed 10-23-1978; Ord. 3206, passed
6-8-1992; Ord. 3389, passed 11-23-1998; Ord. 3529, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 30-30 REMOVAL OF TRASH FROM PRIVATE PREMISES.
   The cost of removal of junk property, litter and/or building materials as
herein defined may be charged to the owner or owners of the premises from which
they are removed. In the event of failure of the owner to remove the junk
property, litter and/or building materials, the City may use its employees or
contract for the removal at its expense and when the cost has been determined,
the City Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to bill the owner or
owners the cost of the removal. In the event of failure of the owner or owners
to pay the costs, the same may be added to the next ad valorem tax roll
delivered to the City Treasurer for collection and collected in the manner of
ad valorem property taxes.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2672, passed 10-23-1978; Ord. 3206, passed
6-8-1992)
§ 30-30.1 VIOLATIONS DEEMED NUISANCE; AUTHORITY OF CITY TO ABATE.
   Any person who accumulates or permits the accumulation of litter and/or
abandoned building material, as herein defined, on property on which it is
prohibited by the terms of this article, shall be deemed to commit the offense
of creating a public nuisance by the action and the designated City officials
are hereby authorized to enter into and upon the real estate to abate the
nuisance.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-30.2 RESERVED.
§ 30-30.3 DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR MATERIALS.
   A dangerous or hazardous substance or material defined as any substance
which is spilled, leaked or otherwise released from its container, which in the
determination of the Fire Chief or his authorized representative is dangerous
or harmful to the environment or human or animal life, health or safety, or is
obnoxious of odor, or is determined by the City to constitute a danger or
threat to the public health, safety or welfare; and shall include, but not be
limited to, such substances as chemicals and gases, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiologic
(biologic) agents, flammables and corrosives.
(Ord. 3138, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 30-30.4 LEAKAGE OR SPILLAGE OF DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES AND
MATERIALS TO BE CLEANED UP.
   It shall be the duty of any person or any other entity which causes or
controls leakage, spillage or any other dissemination of dangerous or hazardous
substances or materials to immediately remove it and clean up the area of the
spillage in such manner that the area involved is fully restored to its
condition before the happening.
(Ord. 3138, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 30-30.5 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   Any such person or entity which fails to comply with §
30-30.4 hereof shall be liable to and shall pay the City for its costs and
expenses, including the costs incurred by the City to any party which it
engages, for the complete abatement, clean up and restoration of the affected
area. Costs incurred by the City shall include, but shall not necessarily be
limited to, the following: actual labor costs of City personnel, including
workers’ compensation benefits, fringe benefits, administrative overhead; cost
of equipment operation, cost of materials obtained directly by the City; and
cost of any contract labor and materials.
   Costs under this section shall not include actual fire suppression services
which are normally provided by the City.
(Ord. 3138, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 30-30.6 FAILURE TO PAY COSTS OF CLEANUP; REMEDIES OF CITY.
   If any person or entity fails to reimburse the City as above provided, and
such person or entity is the owner of the affected property, the City shall
have the right and power to add any and all costs of cleanup and restoration to
the tax roll as to the property, and to levy and collect the costs in the same
manner as provided for the levy and collection of real property taxes against
the property. The City shall also have the right to bring an action in the
appropriate court to collect the costs if it deems such action necessary.
(Ord. 3138, passed 6-25-1990)
§ 30-31 LIMITATION.
   This chapter shall not be construed to repeal, suspend or modify the
provisions of any other provision of this Code or any other ordinance of the
City relating to the abandonment or keeping of items or materials of any kind
which are hazardous to public health, safety or welfare upon any premises, nor
to hinder or limit availability of injunction against the storage, accumulation
or maintenance of the items or materials.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-32 PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATION OF §§ 30-1 – 30-30; ISSUANCE OF APPEARANCE
TICKET.
   A prosecution for a violation of §§
30-1 through
30-30 may be commenced by the issuance of an appearance ticket. The Chief of
Police and his designee, as well as the individuals designated as Enforcement
Officers pursuant to §§
1-8 and
1-9 of the Code, shall have the authority to issue appearance tickets for
violations of the sections.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2995, passed 6-9-1986; Ord. 3137, passed
5-29-1990)
§ 30-33 PENALTY AND DESIGNATION OF CERTAIN SECTIONS AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL
INFRACTIONS.
   (a)   Any person convicted of a violation under this chapter, except as
provided in subsection (b) below, shall:
      (1)   Receive up to a $500 fine and/or up to 90 days in jail;
      (2)   Be ordered to make full restitution for the costs incurred in the
abatement and/or enjoining of the violation; and/or
      (3)   Be ordered to complete up to 40 hours of community service work.
   (b)   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §§
30-3,
30-4,
30-7,
30-9,
30-11,
30-12,
30-13,
30-14,
30-15,
30-18,
30-20,
30-21,
30-22,
30-23,
30-25,
30-26 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3348, passed 7-27-1997; Ord. 3556, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 30-34 INCREASE IN FINE OR IMPRISONMENT FOR SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION.
   Subject to the penalty maximums set forth in §§
1-7 and
1-19 of this Code and subject to any other penalty maximums provided by law,
persons found guilty of or responsible for violating a section of this chapter
§§
30-11 through
30-30 on a second or subsequent occasion shall be punished by a fine or
imprisonment, where allowable by law, which shall exceed any previous fine or
imprisonment levied against the person for the last previous offense.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3557, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 30-35 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   An authorized person, in his or her discretion, may serve upon an individual
found violating any provision of this chapter a notice of the violation
pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 3558, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 30-36 PROVISIONS OF §§ 30-10 – 30-35 NOT TO CONSTITUTE PERMISSION TO DO ACTS
PROHIBITED BY OTHER LAW.
   Nothing contained in §§
30-10 through
30-35 shall constitute permission to do acts prohibited by other law.
(Ord. 2624-B, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 30-37 FINDINGS WITH RESPECT TO DRUG USE.
   The City determines that, whenever the repeated use, sale, furnishing,
giving or possession of controlled substances or drug paraphernalia occurs on
any property, increased criminal activity occurs in the neighborhood
surrounding the property, increased pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic occurs
in the neighborhood surrounding the property are disturbed, a public nuisance
is thereby created.
(Ord. 3186, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 30-38 USE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES OR DRUG PARAPHERNALIA; PUBLIC NUISANCE;
NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (a)   Whenever the use, sale, furnishing, giving or possession of controlled
substances or drug paraphernalia occurs on any property, the City Council may
declare by resolution that the property, after notice to the owner, a public
hearing and a recommendation from the appropriate committee, is a public
nuisance.
   (b)   Notice of the public hearing shall be made to the owner and shall
consist of personal service or mailing of a certified letter to the taxpayer of
record, as indicated in the Building and Safety Inspection Division in the case
of a rental unit, or the City Assessor’s office in the case of an owner
occupied dwelling, and the receipt by the City of a return receipt card
indicating the owner’s having received the notice. This notice to the owner
shall occur at least seven calendar days prior to the date of public hearing.
(Ord. 3186, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 30-39 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE; COSTS.
   If the City Council determines that a property is a public nuisance, it may,
by resolution, in addition to any other remedies available to the City at law
or in equity:
   (a)   Authorize the Building and Safety Inspection Division to prohibit the
occupancy of the property by either padlocking a portion of the property or
boarding the property up, whichever is appropriate, for a period of up to one
year from the date Council adopts the resolution; and/or
   (b)   Determine the owner shall be liable for the full cost of any personnel
(including police and Code Compliance Officers) involved in each raid
subsequent to the first raid and assess the cost against property.
(Ord. 3186, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 30-40 PERSUASIVE PRESUMPTION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It shall be a persuasive presumption that a property is a public nuisance
if:
   (a)   The property has been raided by the police and controlled substances
and/or drug paraphernalia have been found by the police;
   (b)   A letter, informing the owner that controlled substances and/or drug
paraphernalia has been found by the police at the property, and of the
potential consequences if a similar activity occurs at the property has been:
      (1)   Personally served on the owner;
      (2)   Sent by certified mail to the taxpayer or record, as indicated in
the Building and Safety Inspection Division in the case of a rental dwelling,
and a return receipt card has been received by the City; or
      (3)   Sent by certified mail to the taxpayer of record, as indicated by
the City Assessor’s office in the case of an owner-occupied dwelling, and a
return receipt card has been received by the City.
   (c)   The same property is raided by the police again within six months from
the date of the first raid and controlled substances and/or drug paraphernalia
is found in the raid by the police.
(Ord. 3186, passed 11-11-1991)
§ 30-41 DRAG RACING.
   (a)   Any vehicle used for the purpose of illegal drag racing, is declared a
nuisance. All nuisances shall be enjoined and abated as provided in this
section of the code and as provided in the Court rules. Any person or his or
her servant, agent, or employee who owns, leases, or conducts, in violation of
this act is guilty of a nuisance.
   (b)   Action to abate; parties; injunction. The Chief Legal Officer may
maintain an action for nuisance abatement equitable relief in the name of the
City of Flint in the Genesee County Circuit Court.
   (c)   Order of abatement. If the existence of the nuisance is established in
an action as provided in section (b), an order of abatement shall be entered as
a part of the judgment in the case, which order shall direct the removal of all
fixtures and contents therein and shall direct the sale thereof.
   (d)   Prerequisites to delivery of vehicle. The vehicle may be returned upon
payment of an administrative fee of nine hundred ($900.00) dollars, and any
storage and towing fees as settlement of any nuisance abatement action.
(Ord. 3796, passed 6-27-2011)
CHAPTER 31: GENERAL OFFENSES *
Section
Article I. In General
   
31-1   Arrest — interfering with police officer
   
31-2   Same — resisting
   
31-3   Assault; police officer
   
31-3.1   Labor membership; strike actions; hiring replacement workers
   
31-4   Atwood Stadium and the like; acts prohibited at public functions
   
31-5   Contraceptives; sale; instruction in use; condom vending machines
   
31-5.1   Parental responsibility — definitions
   
31-5.2   Same — parental responsibility
   
31-5.3   Same — notification of parent; record of notification
   
31-5.4   Truancy reduction
   
31-5.4.1   Definitions
   
31-5.5   Violation and penalty
   
31-6   Contributing to delinquency of minors
   
31-7   Curfew — minors 12 and under
   
31-7.1   School year curfew — minors 12 and under
   
31-8   Curfew — minors 14 and under
   
31-8.1   School year curfew — minors 14 and under
   
31-9   Curfew — minors under 17
   
31-9.1   School year curfew — minors under 17
   
31-9.2   Daytime curfew — Minors under 17
   
31-9.3   Curfew — failure of parent or guardian to collect minor
   
31-10   Same — persons 17 or over abiding or abetting violations
   
31-11   Disorderly house — frequenting; what constitutes; proof of character of
house
   
31-12   Disorderly conduct and disorderly persons
   
31-12.1   Hindering or assaulting City employees; injury to City vehicles
   
31-13   Larceny
   
31-13.1   Forfeiture
   
31-13.2   Penalties
   
31-14   Begging or panhandling
   
31-15   Rioters; collectors of crowds and the like
   
31-16   Prowling
   
31-17   Window peepers
   
31-18   Arrest procedures
   
31-19   False reports to police
   
31-19.1   Alarm system user
   
31-19.2   False alarm fee
   
31-19.3   Interference with telephone communications systems
   
31-19.4   Audible or visual signals
   
31-19.5   Penalty
   
31-19.6   Severability
   
31-19.7   Rules and regulations for implementation
   
31-20   Firearms — handling, firing and the like
   
31-20.1   Same — minors possessing
   
31-20.2   Access to firearms by minors
   
31-20.3   Fireworks
   
31-21   Fixtures and the like for lighting public places — damaging or
destroying
   
31-22   Gambling house — keeping
   
31-23   Same — permitting house to be used for gambling
   
31-24   Same — frequenting
   
31-25   Same — right of entry of police; seizure and disposition of gambling
devices
   
31-26   Glue, marihuana, controlled substances and other toxic substances —
definitions of certain terms
   
31-27   Same — purchase, sale and the like
   
31-27.1   Same — unlawful delivery of and unlawful possession with intent to
deliver
   
31-27.1.1   Medical exemption for possession and use of marihuana and marihuana
paraphernalia
   
31-27.2   Definitions relative to controlled substances
   
31-27.3   Use of paraphernalia for controlled substances; exceptions
   
31-27.3.1   Notice of violation of § 31-27.3
   
31-27.4   Penalty for violations of §§ 31-27.2 and 31-27.3
   
31-28   Proof that purchaser of model airplane glue is 17 or older
   
31-29   Records of seller of model airplane glue
   
31-30   Inhaling of model airplane glue; use of seeds
   
31-31   Display or storage of substances by seller
   
31-32   Prostitution — generally
   
31-33   Crime of prostitution
   
31-33.1   Patronizing prostitute
   
31-33.2   Sex of parties immaterial in prosecution for prostitution or
patronizing prostitute
   
31-33.3   “Sexual conduct” defined
   
31-33.3.1   Sexual conduct performed in a vehicle
   
31-33.4   Promoting prostitution
   
31-33.5   Profiting from prostitution
   
31-33.6   Permitting prostitution
   
31-33.7   Soliciting
   
31-33.8   Penalty for second or subsequent violation of §§ 31-32 – 31-33.7
   
31-34   Filing complaint against suspected house of prostitution — issuance of
warrant; arrests
   
31-35   Same — execution of warrant
   
31-36   Iceboxes, refrigerators or other airtight containers; abandonment
   
31-37   Dangerous weapons — possession restricted
   
31-38   Same — same — minors
   
31-39   Possession or sale of switch blade
   
31-40   Same — sale, gift or loan to minor
   
31-40.1   Same — exceptions to restrictions and prohibition
   
31-41   Same — violations
   
31-41.1   Brandishing toy, replica or facsimile firearms
   
31-41.2   Penalty for § 31-41.1
   
31-42   Loitering in District Court
   
31-42.1   Loitering at the MTA Transportation Center
   
31-43   Magazines and the like appealing to prurient or violent interests
   
31-43.1   Same — sale, distribution and the like
   
31-43.2   Possession of printed material, visual representation or sound
recording depicting or describing body or conduct of child for purpose of
sexual stimulation
   
31-43.3   Display of obscene materials
   
31-44   Reserved
   
31-45   Municipal Center; presence in buildings after 11:00 p.m.
   31-45.1, 31-45.2   Reserved
   
31-45.3   Picketing; certain acts prohibited
   
31-45.4   Possession of certain chemical substances without prescription
   
31-46   Use of intoxicating liquors, drugs or controlled substances —
restricted in public places
   
31-47   Same — arrest and detention
   
31-48   Public structures; defacing, marring and the like
   
31-48.1   Removal of graffiti
   
31-49   Smoking on buses
   
31-50   Smoking or carrying lighted tobacco in certain places
   
31-51   Designation of areas where smoking prohibited — duty of owner
   
31-52   Same — posting of signs
   
31-53   Effective date of smoking regulations
   
31-54   Entrance upon lands or premises of another; failure to leave upon
request
   
31-55   Actions blocking or obstructing vehicular or pedestrian traffic
   
31-56   Reserved
   
31-57   Flint River
   
31-58   Harassing telephone calls or visits
   
31-58.1   School safety zone — defined
   
31-58.2   Same — violations therein
   
31-58.3   Harassing communications
   
31-59   Creating disturbance, unauthorized entry, firearms, dangerous weapons
on school property and the like
   
31-60   Filing untrue complaint with knowledge of untruth
   
31-61   Giving false statements under oath
   
31-62   Larceny
   
31-63   Destruction of or injury to property to extent of $100.00 or less
   
31-64   Defrauding a business
   31-65 – 31-69   Reserved
Article II. Noise Control
   
31-70   Short title
   
31-71   Definitions
   
31-72   Noise disturbances; prohibited acts
   
31-73   Impulsive noise levels and prohibitions
   
31-74   Intermittent noise levels and prohibitions
   
31-75   Continuous noise levels and prohibitions
   
31-76   Perpetual noise levels and prohibitions
   
31-77   Exemptions
   
31-78   Penalty and law enforcement
   
31-79   Severability
Article III. Blight Violations
   
31-80   Creation of Administrative Hearings Bureau
   
31-81   Blight violation
   
31-82   Hearing Officer
   
31-83   Initiation of proceedings
   
31-84   Response to violation notice
   
31-85   Hearings
   
31-86   Penalties
   
31-87   Default judgments
   
31-88   Appeal
   Appendix: Maximum Levels in dB(A)s
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 31-1 ARREST — INTERFERING WITH POLICE OFFICER.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, by means of any
threat or violence, to deter or prevent any police officer from effecting a
lawful arrest or performing any duty imposed upon such police officer by law.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to interfere with a
police officer while said officer is engaged in making a lawful arrest, or to
attempt to resist arrest or attempt to assault a police officer while said
officer is discharging, or attempt to discharge, a duty of his office, or is
engaged in making a lawful arrest.
(Ord. 1864, passed 9-9-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Interfering with police officer, see MCLA 750.479
§ 31-2 SAME — RESISTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (a)   Knowingly and willfully obstruct, resist and oppose any police officer
or other person duly authorized, in serving, attempting to serve or execute any
process, rule or order make or issued by lawful authority.
   (b)   Knowingly or willfully obstruct, resist or oppose any police officer
or the person so duly authorized in the execution of any ordinance or
resolution made, issued or passed by the City Council of the City of Flint.
   (c)   Knowingly and willfully obstruct, resist or oppose any member of the
Police force or Fire Department in the discharge of his lawful duties or fail
to obey the lawful order of said officer, when such person knows or should know
him to be a member of the Police force or Fire Department.
(Ord. 1864, passed 9-9-1965; Ord. 2641, passed 5-22-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Resisting police officers, see MCLA 750.479
§ 31-3 ASSAULT; POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assault, beat or otherwise threaten a
police officer while making a lawful arrest, or while said officer is
performing any duty imposed upon the police officer by law.
(Ord. 1864, passed 9-9-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Assaulting police officers, see MCLA 750.49
§ 31-3.1 LABOR MEMBERSHIP; STRIKE ACTIONS; HIRING REPLACEMENT WORKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (a)   Discriminate in regard to hiring or terms or conditions of employment
in order to encourage or discourage membership in a labor organization. This
subdivision does not prohibit an employer from entering into an agreement with
an exclusive bargaining representative and to require as a condition of
employment that all employees in the bargaining unit pay to the exclusive
bargaining representative a service fee equivalent to the amount of dues
uniformly required of members of the exclusive bargaining representative;
   (b)   Offer or grant the status of a permanent replacement employee to an
individual for performing bargaining unit work for the employer during a strike
legally undertaken, or otherwise offer or grant an individual any employment
preference based on the fact that the individual was employed or indicated a
willingness to be employed during a strike legally undertaken over an
individual who meets all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Was an employee of the employer at the commencement of the strike
legally undertaken.
      (2)   Has exercised the right to join, assist, or engage in other
protected concerted activities for the purpose of collective bargaining or
other mutual aid or protection through the labor organization involved in the
strike.
      (3)   Is working for, or has unconditionally offered to return to work
for the employer.
   (c)   Cause or attempt to cause an employer to discriminate against an
employee in violation of subsection (a) hereof.
(Ord. 3249, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 31-4 ATWOOD STADIUM AND THE LIKE; ACTS PROHIBITED AT PUBLIC FUNCTIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
section during the period any public function is being conducted in Atwood
Stadium, or any other arena or meeting place.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section:
      PUBLIC FUNCTION. Includes by way of specification, but without
limitation, any athletic contest, exhibition, meeting, convention or rally, to
which the public is admitted, whether with or without a charge.
      THE PERIOD OF A PUBLIC FUNCTION.  Shall extend from one hour after the
termination of the last activity comprising the public function.
   (c)   All persons attending events at Atwood Stadium or any other arena or
meeting place shall proceed directly to their seats, and upon leaving shall
proceed directly from their seats to the nearest exit and depart from the
vicinity of the stadium, arena or meeting place without unnecessary delay.
   (d)   During the period of any public function, all persons shall remain in
their seats, except while arriving or departing and except for authorized
purposes. Such purposes are visiting the rest room, and obtaining refreshments.
   (e)   No person during the period of a public function shall:
      (1)   Collect or remain in a crowd loitering in the aisles, entryways or
spaces of the stadium, arena or meeting place, or on the sidewalks, street or
parking areas in the immediate vicinity thereof.
      (2)   Obstruct or hinder the lawful passage of any member of the public.
      (3)   Jostle or roughly crowd another person unnecessarily, or by
offensive or disorderly acts or language annoy or interfere with another
person.
      (4)   Commit a breach of peace, or engage in threatening, abusive or
insulting behavior whereby a breach of peace may be occasioned.
      (5)   Make, aid or assist in making any riot, disturbance or other
improper diversion.
      (6)   Climb upon the walls of Atwood Stadium or any other arena or
meeting place, for any purpose, or in or upon the trees in the immediate
vicinity thereof.
      (7)   Enter the playing field area of the stadium or any other arena or
meeting place, or within the immediate vicinity thereof, or commit any injury
or damage to the stadium, arena or meeting place, its turf or equipment.
      (8)   Throw any object within or about the stadium or arena, or meeting
place, or within the immediate vicinity thereof, or commit any injury or damage
to the stadium, arena or meeting place, its turf or equipment.
      (9)   Transport into the stadium, arena or meeting place or consume or
have in his possession or control within or in the immediate vicinity thereof,
any alcoholic liquor, beer or intoxicating beverage.
(Ord. 2641, passed 5-22-1978)
§ 31-5 CONTRACEPTIVES; SALE; INSTRUCTION IN USE; CONDOM VENDING MACHINES.
   (a)   License required; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person to
vend, sell or distribute in any manner whatsoever any article, with the
exception of synthetic prophylactics or condoms, or medicinal preparations
primarily manufactured for, or which may be used as a contraceptive within the
City, except regularly licensed practitioners of medicine or registered
pharmacists. No person shall prescribe or designate in any manner the use of
any such article or preparation, except licensed practitioners of medicine. It
shall be unlawful to vend, sell or distribute in any manner whatsoever, any
such articles or medicines on the streets, including peddling, canvassing or
soliciting from house to house. Providing however, that synthetic prophylactics
or condoms may be sold or distributed in the manner set forth in the following
section.
   (b)   License. No person shall install, maintain or possess a machine
dispensing condoms in a place open to the public without a license. A license
shall be issued by the City Clerk if the requirements of this section, the Code
of the City of Flint, and State and Federal law are met. Said license shall be
renewed annually.
   (c)   Notices on machines. The messages on a condom vending machine shall be
limited to the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and other identifying information, regarding the
distributor of the dispensing machine who is responsible for machine
maintenance.
      (2)   The condom manufacturer’s name, brand name, price and other
descriptive information regarding the condoms sold in the machines.
      (3)   A statement that “abstinence is the best protection from pregnancy
and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases.”
      (4)   A statement that “condoms may significantly decrease (but not
eliminate) the chances of pregnancy or the spread of sexually transmitted
diseases.”
   (d)   Investigation of applicant. Upon filing the application as provided in
this article, the same shall be referred to the Chief of Police for an
investigation. After investigation by the Chief of Police, the application
shall be referred to the City Council.
   (e)   Time for license. License applications for all existing condom vending
machines shall be filed within ten (10) days of the effective date of this
ordinance and total compliance obtained within thirty (30) days or the machines
shall be removed.
   (f)   Issuance of license; fee; license period. Upon approval of the license
by the City Council, the City Clerk shall issue a license, provided that the
applicant had complied with all sections of this article and this Code or any
other ordinances applying to the applicant, and upon the payment of the fee
prescribed in
Chapter 26. All such licenses shall be for a period of one year and shall
expire on April 30 next following the date of issuance, and there shall be no
rebate for any lesser time.
   (g)   Suspension or revocation.
      Any license issued by the City of Flint under the provisions of these
Code sections may be suspended or revoked by the City Council at any time that
the City Council may deem or determine that the holder of the license is not in
compliance with this section, or has been convicted of any violation of this
article.
      Revocation shall be accomplished by a hearing held before the City
Council, or a hearing panel of the Council in accordance with the rules for
hearings as previously adopted by the Council.
      In addition, where the holder of a license granted under this article is
also the licensed owner or operator of an alcoholic liquor establishment, and
in connection with the operation of such establishment, said licensee violates
or allows another person to violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Liquor Control Commission, or any law of the State of Michigan or any
applicable ordinance of the City of Flint, the City Council may, after notice
and hearing as previously adopted by the City Council, suspend or revoke any
license granted under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 476, passed 4-12-1934; Ord. 3064, passed 7-11-1988)
§ 31-5.1 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY — DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions apply:
   DELINQUENT ACTS. Those acts which violate the laws of the United States, the
laws of the State of Michigan or the ordinances of the City of Flint; those
acts which cause or would tend to cause the minor to come under the
jurisdiction of the Juvenile Division of the Probate Court as defined by MCLA §
712A.2: or those acts by which the minor intentionally causes physical harm to
another or deliberately creates an unreasonable risk of physical harm to
himself or herself or to others. DELINQUENT ACTS do not include traffic
violations.
   DRUGS. Any controlled substance as defined now or hereafter by the Public
Health Code for the State of Michigan. Currently, such substances are defined
in part 72 of the Health Code, being MCLA §§ 333.7201 et seq.
   MINOR. Any unemancipated person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT. A mother, father or legal guardian of a minor who has the
responsibility for the health, welfare, care, maintenance and supervision of
the minor at the time the delinquent act is alleged to have been committed by
the minor.
(Ord. 3272, passed 3-14-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Probate Code; Authority and jurisdiction of court, see MCLA 712A.2
   Public Health Code, see MCLA 333.7201 et seq.
§ 31-5.2 SAME — PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (a)   The parent of any minor has a continuous responsibility to exercise
reasonable control and supervision over the minor to prevent the minor from
committing or participating in the commission of any delinquent act.
   (b)   The parental responsibility to exercise reasonable control includes
the following duties, set forth for the purposes of illustration and not
limitation:
      (1)   To keep drugs out of the home and out of the possession of the
minor, except those drugs duly prescribed by a licensed physician or other
authorized medical professional.
      (2)   To keep firearms out of the possession of the minor except those
used for hunting in accordance with local ordinance and State law and with the
knowledge and supervision of a parent.
      (3)   To know the curfew ordinance of the City of Flint and to require
the minor to observe the curfew ordinance.
      (4)   To prevent the minor from maliciously or willfully damaging,
defacing or destroying real or personal property belonging to others, including
that belonging to the City of Flint.
      (5)   To prevent the minor from engaging in theft of property or keeping
in his or her possession property known to be stolen.
(Ord. 3272, passed 3-14-1994)
§ 31-5.3 SAME — NOTIFICATION OF PARENT; RECORD OF NOTIFICATION.
   Whenever a minor is arrested or detained by the City of Flint Police
Department for the commission of any delinquent act, the parent of the minor
shall be notified as soon as reasonably possible by the City of Flint police of
the minor’s arrest or detention and the reason therefor, and of the parent’s
responsibility under this section.
(Ord. 3272, passed 3-14-1994)
§ 31-5.4 TRUANCY REDUCTION.
   (a)   A minor who is at least six (6) years of age and under sixteen (16)
years of age and who has not completed the twelfth grade may not be upon any
public property or public right-of-way during regular school hours except while
attending school as required by MCLA §§ 380.1561 to 380.1599, unless the minor
is:
      (1)   Absent from the school with the school’s permission, but not
including students who have been suspended or expelled; or
      (2)   Engaged in a lawful pursuit or activity that requires the minor’s
presence somewhere other than school during regular school hours, and which is
authorized by the parent, guardian, or other person having legal care and
custody of the minor; or
      (3)   Lawfully emancipated pursuant to MCLA §§ 722.1 to 722.6; or
      (4)   Exempt from compulsory school attendance pursuant to MCLA §
380.1561.
   (b)   If a police officer has reasonable suspicion to believe that a minor
is in violation of this section, the officer is authorized to detain the minor
and make reasonable inquiry regarding a potential violation of subsection (a)
of this section.
   (c)   If a police officer determines that a minor is in violation of this
section, the officer is authorized to take the minor into protective custody
and do one of the following:
      (1)   Take the minor back to his/her assigned school; or
      (2)   If the minor is eleven (11) and under sixteen (16) years old and
not formally enrolled in school or expelled or suspended, or in need of social
services, the minor will be taken to an appropriate facility for minors eleven
(11) and under sixteen (16) years old; or
      (3)   If the minor is six (6) to ten (10) years of age, and cannot be
taken back to school, the minor will be given a ride to the minor’s parent or
guardian.
   (d)   The minor’s parent or guardian and the minor’s school shall receive a
notification ticket relative to the violation.
(Ord. 3687, passed 2-26-2007)
§ 31-5.4.1 DEFINITIONS.
   ASSIGNED SCHOOL. The location where a student is registered to attend,
during compulsory school time when the class or activity is in session or the
student is dealing with school business.
   AUTHORIZATION. A permission slip given by a school authority to excuse a
student from being in the usual assigned school location in accordance with
school policy or a note from the parent or guardian giving permission for the
student to be absent from school. The permission slip must be in the immediate
possession of the student at all times when not at the assigned school location
during school hours.
   COMPULSORY SCHOOL AGE MINOR. A person not less than six (6) and under
sixteen (16) years of age that is not exempted and must be attending a public
or regularly established private school during the school year of the district
in which the minor resides.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under Court Order, is the guardian of the person or
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
Court action.
   MINOR. Any unemancipated person under the age of seventeen (17) years of
age.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent who has the
responsibility for the health, welfare, care, maintenance and supervision of a
minor; or
      (2)   Another person, at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized
by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   REGULAR SCHOOL HOURS. The hours of the full-time school that the minor would
attend in the school district where the minor resides on any day that school is
in session; or, if the school in the school district of residence is unknown,
REGULAR SCHOOL HOURS are the school hours of the Flint Public School District,
on any day that the school is in session.
   TRUANCY. The act or condition of being absent from school without
permission. An unapproved absence from school.
(Ord. 3687, passed 2-26-2007)
§ 31-5.5 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   (a)   If the minor of a guardian or parent residing within the City commits
a delinquent act, the guardian or parent shall be guilty of a violation of this
article if:
      (1)   It is proven that any act, word or non- exercise of parental
responsibility by the guardian or parent encouraged, caused or allowed to occur
the commission of the delinquent act by the minor; or
      (2)   It is proven that the guardian or parent knew or reasonably should
have known that the minor was likely to commit a delinquent act, but failed to
take timely and appropriate action to prevent the commission of the delinquent
act by the minor. If at any time within forty-five (45) days following the
giving of notice as provided by §
31-5.3 above, the minor to whom said notice related or applied as to the
delinquent act as defined in this article, it shall be a rebuttable presumption
that the minor committed the delinquent act with the knowledge, allowance,
permission or sufferance of the guardian or parent.
   (b)   Any person in violation of §§
31-5.1 through
31-5.4 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction may be ordered to
perform twenty (20) hours of community service and, in addition, shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or ninety (90)
days in jail, or both fine and jail in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 3272, passed 3-14-1994; Ord. 3687, passed 2-26-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Revised School Code, see MCLA 380.1561 et seq.
   Status of Minors and Child Support, see MCLA 722.1 et seq.
§ 31-6 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINORS.
   Any person who shall by any act, or by any word, encourage, contribute
toward, cause or tend to cause any minor child under the age of 17 years to
become neglected or delinquent so as to come or tend to come under the
jurisdiction of the Juvenile Division of the Probate Court, or cause or permit
any minor child to engage in any occupation that would be likely to endanger
the minor child’s health or deprave the minor child’s morals, or to habitually
permit the child to frequent the company of or consort with reputed thieves or
prostitutes, whether or not such child in fact be adjudicated a ward of the
Probate Court shall be guilty of a violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 1662, passed 1-22-1962; Ord. 2319, passed 3-13-1972)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MSA § 28.340
§ 31-7 CURFEW — MINORS 12 AND UNDER.
   No minor of the age of 12 years or under shall loiter, idle, congregate or
be in or on any public street, highway, alley, park or public place between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the minor child is accompanied by a
parent or guardian or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to
accompany the child.
(Ord. 1841, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 1871, passed 10-18-1965; Ord. 3759, passed
10-12-2009)
§ 31-7.1 SCHOOL YEAR CURFEW — MINORS 12 AND UNDER.
   No minor of the age of 12 years or under, from Monday through Thursday,
during the school year, shall loiter, idle, congregate or be in or on any
public street, highway, alley, park or public place between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the minor child is accompanied by a parent or
guardian or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the
child. Section
31-7 shall be applicable when school is not in session.
(Ord. 3759, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 31-8 CURFEW — MINORS 14 AND UNDER.
   No minor the age of 14 years or under shall loiter, idle, congregate or be
in or on any public street, highway, alley, park or public place between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless the minor is accompanied by a parent
or guardian or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the
child.
(Ord. 1841, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 1871, passed 10-18-1965; Ord. 3759, passed
10-12-2009)
§ 31-8.1 SCHOOL YEAR CURFEW — MINORS 14 AND UNDER.
   No minor of the age of 14 years or under, from Monday through Thursday,
during the school year, shall loiter, idle, congregate or be in or on any
public street, highway, alley, park or public place between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the minor child is accompanied by a parent or
guardian or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the
child. Section
31-8 shall be applicable when school is not in session.
(Ord. 3759, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 31-9 CURFEW — MINORS UNDER 17.
   No minor under the age of 17 years shall loiter, idle, congregate or be in
or on any public street, highway, alley, park or public place between the hours
of midnight and 6:00 a.m., immediately following, except where the minor is
accompanied by a parent or guardian or some adult over the age of 21 years,
delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor child or where the
minor is upon an errand or other legitimate business directed by his parent or
guardian.
(Ord. 1841, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 1871, passed 10-18-1965; Ord. 3759, passed
10-12-2009)
§ 31-9.1 SCHOOL YEAR CURFEW — MINORS UNDER 17.
   No minor under the age of 17 years or under, from Monday through Thursday,
during the school year, shall loiter, idle, congregate or be in or on any
public street, highway, alley, park or public place between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the minor child is accompanied by a parent or
guardian or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the
child. Section
31-9 shall be applicable when school is not in session.
(Ord. 3759, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 31-9.2 DAYTIME CURFEW — MINORS UNDER 17.
   No minor under the age of 17 years shall loiter, idle, congregate or be in
or on any public street, highway, alley, park or public place between 9:00 a.m.
and 2:00 p.m. during the school year, except where the minor is accompanied by
a parent or guardian or some adult over the age of 21 years, delegated by the
parent or guardian to accompany the minor child or where the minor is upon an
errand or other legitimate business directed by his or her parent or guardian.
“School year” is defined by the minor’s assigned school.
(Ord. 3685, passed 1-22-2007; Ord. 3759, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 31-9.3 CURFEW — FAILURE OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN TO COLLECT MINOR.
   Any guardian or parent of a minor child who is notified that his or her
minor child has been taken into custody for a violation of the Flint City Code,
and who thereafter fails or refuses to collect the minor child from the
authorities or make provisions therefor within a period of three hours after
notification shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction of a violation
of this section, a parent also shall be subject to costs in the amount of the
actual cost to the Police Department in arresting and detaining the minor
child.
(Ord. 2719, passed 7-9-1979; Ord. 3151, passed 11-12-1990; Ord. passed 4-17-
1993; Ord. 3272, passed 3-14-1994; Ord. 3685, passed 1-22-2007; Ord. 3759,
passed 10-12-2009)
§ 31-10 SAME — PERSONS 17 OR OVER ABIDING OR ABETTING VIOLATIONS.
   Any person seventeen (17) years of age or older, who assists, aids or abets,
allows, permits or encourages any minor under the age of seventeen (17) years
to violate the Flint City Code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1841, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 2451, passed 8-12-1974; Ord. 3151, passed
11-12-1990)
§ 31-11 DISORDERLY HOUSE — FREQUENTING; WHAT CONSTITUTES; PROOF OF CHARACTER OF
HOUSE.
   No person shall knowingly attend or frequent a disorderly house, room or
place as herein defined.
   DISORDERLY HOUSE, ROOM or PLACE. Is one which any or all of the following
occur:
   (a)   One in which unlicensed gaming or gambling is suffered or permitted or
a common gaming or gambling house or room.
   (b)   A house of prostitution or ill repute or a house, room or place in
which prostitutes resort.
   (c)   One in which intoxicating liquors are illegally sold, given or
dispensed.
   (d)   One in which gaming devices, lottery, policy, pool or numbers slips,
papers, memorandums, books of account, apparatus, or material for gambling are
unlawfully kept or used.
   (e)   One in which controlled substances are delivered, used, sold or
maintained. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES, for the purpose of this section, shall have
the same meaning as, and shall include the same substances as, the State
Controlled Substances statute, being MCLA §§ 333.7101 et seq., being MSA §§
14.15(7101) et seq.
(Ord. 1155, passed 1-18-1954; Ord. 1437, passed 6-2-1958; Ord. 2852, passed 9-
13-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Public Health Code, see MCLA 333.701 et seq.
§ 31-12 DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND DISORDERLY PERSONS.
   (a)   A person is a disorderly person if the person does any of the
following:
      (1)   a.   Commits an assault or battery upon any person.
         b.   Commits an assault or an assault and battery upon a spouse,
former spouse, or a person residing or having resided in the same household as
the perpetrator. This section shall be enforced in accordance with MCLA §§
750.81, 764.15a and 769.4a.
      (2)   Engages in any fight in a public place except when doing so solely
in self-defense.
      (3)   Remains in any public place after its regular closing hours after
being told to leave by one authorized to give such an order.
      (4)   Conducts himself in any public place, or joins with one or more
persons in a public place, if he knows or should know that, singly or together
with others with whom he has joined, he is unreasonably obstructing the free
and uninterrupted passage of the public along any street or sidewalk, provided
that this paragraph is not to be interpreted to conflict with the regulations
of the National Labor Relations Board regarding picketing in labor disputes.
      (5)   Persists in disturbing the public peace and quiet by loud or
aggressive conduct, having once been clearly informed by persons affected that
he is in fact unreasonably causing such a disturbance, provided, however, that
notice need not be given when such persons affected reasonably believe that to
do so would constitute a risk to their personal safety.
      (6)   Persists in disturbing the peace and orderly conduct of any meeting
of a public body or any meeting open to the general public by any conduct or
communication which by its very existence inflicts injury or tends to incite an
immediate breach of peace or which prevents the peaceful and orderly conduct of
such meeting after having been clearly informed that he is in fact unreasonably
causing such disturbance.
      (7)   Knowingly transport any person, for consideration, or the offer of
consideration, to a place where the business of prostitution, gambling, or
illegal sale of liquor or a controlled substance is carried on, for the purpose
of enabling such person to be a customer of any such business.
      (8)   Knowingly harasses any other person. HARASS is defined as any
repeated nonverbal conduct which is specifically intended to frighten,
embarrass, or anger the person or persons who are the object of such conduct,
or which the person accused has reason to know is likely to produce such
reactions or any repeated verbal communication which by its very utterance
inflicts injury or incites an immediate breach of peace.
      (9)   Urinates or defecates on any public street or sidewalk, or on the
floor of that part of any building open to the public or any other place in
view of the public not specifically designated for that purpose.
      (10)   Throws any object from any moving vehicle, or toward any person or
moving vehicle if he knows or should know that damage to person or property, or
alarm which may foreseeably produce damage to person or property is likely to
result.
      (11)   Knowingly destroys, damages or defaces or removes any public
property or other property not his own.
      (12)   Summons, without good reason therefor, by telephone or otherwise,
the Police or Fire Department, any public or private ambulance, or any other
service of any kind, to go to any address where the service call is not needed.
      (13)   Knowingly take possession of and rides or takes away any bicycle,
without the express or implied permission of the owner.
      (14)   For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any street,
alley, park, government-owned or government-controlled building, common hallway
or public room of any dwelling greater than two (2) units, or any other place
to which the public has lawful access, as well as any motor vehicle used to
provide public transportation. Masculine pronouns in this section shall be
construed to include both male and female persons.
      (15)   Intentionally makes or causes to be made any open exposure of the
human male or female genitals, pubic area, buttocks or female breast in any
street, alley, park, sidewalk, public building, school or building open to or
frequented by the public or any other place which is open to the public view or
to which the public has access.
      (16)   Loiters, frequents, or remains on or in any public place or
private property:
         a.   For the purpose of unlawfully using, possessing, offering for
sale, selling, furnishing or dispensing any controlled substance and/or drug
paraphernalia; or
         b.   Who has knowledge that controlled substances and/or drug
paraphernalia are, or recently have been, unlawfully used, possessed, offered
for sale, sold, dispensed, furnished, given away or stored on or near the
property.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section:
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Shall be defined as it is in the Controlled
Substances Act of the State of Michigan, MCLA §§ 333.7101 et seq., being MSA §§
14.15(7101) et seq., as amended.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Any item which is used or intended for use with a
controlled substance. USED OR INTENDED FOR USE WITH A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE
means:
         a.   The item was primarily designed or adapted, because of its
objective physical features, for use with a controlled substance; or
         b.   The item was intended by an individual for use with a controlled
substance; or
         c.   An individual would know, or should have known, that the item was
intended for use with a controlled substance.
(Ord. 2641, passed 5-22-1978; Ord. 2670, passed 10-23-1978; Ord. 2943, passed
2-11-1985; Ord. 3011, passed 10-13-1986; Ord. 3116, passed 10-9-1989; Ord.
3165, passed 4-22-1991; Ord. 3192, passed 1-13-1992)
§ 31-12.1 HINDERING OR ASSAULTING CITY EMPLOYEES; INJURY TO CITY VEHICLES.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or willfully
obstruct, resist, oppose, assault, beat or wound any employee of the City of
Flint while said employee is engaged in the lawful performance of his official
duties.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, mark, scratch, damage or
destroy the body, sides, top or any of the accessories, equipment,
appurtenances or attachments of any motor vehicle of the City of Flint being
used by an employee of the City or City official who is engaged in lawful
performance of his official duties.
(Ord. 2718, passed 7-9-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without warrant for assault of individual having child in common,
household resident, dating relationship, or spouse or former spouse, see MCLA
764.15a
   Assault and battery, see MCLA 750.81
   Assault on spouse, see MCLA 769.4a
   Public Health Code, see MCLA 333.701 et seq.
§ 31-13 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense of larceny by
taking any property not his own and to which he has no claim or right with the
intent of permanently depriving the owner of lawful possession, or receive or
possess any such property knowing the same to be stolen.
(Ord. 2641, passed 5-22-1978)
§ 31-13.1 FORFEITURE.
   (a)   Any vehicle used in furtherance of larceny of aluminum siding, copper
pipe, copper wire, manhole covers, household fixtures, or other scrap metal
from either a public or private owner shall be forfeited to the City of Flint.
   (b)   The Chief Legal Officer shall institute forfeiture proceedings in the
name of the City of Flint in the Genesee County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 3799, passed 8-22-2011; Ord. 3803, passed 9-12-2011)
§ 31-13.2 PENALTIES.
   (a)   Any person convicted of larceny of aluminum siding, copper pipe,
copper wire, manhole covers or other scrap metal from either a public or
private owner shall serve a mandatory ninety (90) day jail term in the Genesee
County Jail. A jail term imposed under this section shall not be suspended nor
any credit given for good time or trustee status. The person subject to the
sentence mandated by this section is not eligible for probation during the
mandatory term imposed.
(Ord. 3800, passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 3804, passed 9-26-2011)
§ 31-14 BEGGING OR PANHANDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to go about from person to person or from place to
place, soliciting contributions for oneself or others; provided, however, that
soliciting of charitable contributions pursuant to a permit issued by the City
Clerk is not prohibited.
(Ord. 2849, passed 8-30-1982)
§ 31-15 RIOTERS; COLLECTORS OF CROWDS AND THE LIKE.
   All persons who shall make, aid or assist in making any riot, disturbance or
improper diversion, or who shall aid or assist in collecting a crowd for any
unlawful purpose, or who shall commit any breach of the peace, shall be deemed
to be disorderly persons.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-14-1924)
§ 31-16 PROWLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly prowl about premises owned
or leased by another in the nighttime, without the express or implied consent
of that person.
(Ord. 2641, passed 5-22-1978)
§ 31-17 WINDOW PEEPERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly go upon the property owned
or leased by another and peep through the window of a building on the property
of any person, without the express or implied consent of that person.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-14-1924; Ord. 1362, passed 1-21-1957; Ord. 2641, passed 5-
22-1978)
§ 31-18 ARREST PROCEDURES.
   The Chief of Police or any police officer in the City of Flint may, and it
shall be the duty of each of them, to arrest without process any person found
by them, or by either of them, violating any of the provisions of this
ordinance hereof and forthwith bring such person before a Judge or Magistrate
in said City to be dealt with according to law, within twenty-four (24) hours
after said arrest, except in case said arrest shall be made in the night or on
Sunday, or on a legal holiday, or in case no Justice or Magistrate can be found
in his office, the officer making the arrest shall convey the person or persons
so arrested to the jail of Genesee County or other place of confinement
provided by the City, and the keeper thereof shall safely keep such persons
therein until taken away by the officer making the arrest, or by some other
officer having legal authority to remove the person, or until such person shall
have remained in said jail or such place of confinement twenty-four (24) hours;
or in case of arrest was made in the nighttime or on Sunday, or on a legal
holiday; then until the hour of 9:00 a.m. of the day next thereafter upon which
a Court may be legally held.
   The officer so taking a person so arrested by him to said jail or place of
confinement shall bring the person, or cause said person to be brought by some
officer having like powers, before the Municipal Court of said City within the
time fixed for his detention.
(Ord. 186, passed 10-14-1924; Ord. 1210, passed - -)
§ 31-19 FALSE REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, co-partnership or
corporation to report or cause to be reported any felony or misdemeanor, or
give any information relating to any such felony or misdemeanor, to the
Department of Police of the City of Flint, or to any member of such Police
Department by telephone, in writing or by other means of communication, knowing
that no such felony or misdemeanor had in fact been committed.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, co-partnership or
corporation to give information or report to the Department of Police of the
City of Flint, or to any member of such Police Department relating to any
felony or misdemeanor, which information or report is false and which
information or report such persons know to be false.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to give any
information, knowing it to be false, to any member of the Department of Police
of the City of Flint, when said member of the Police Department of the City of
Flint is in the performance of his official duties.
(Ord. 200, passed 1-10-1938; Ord. 1406, passed 11-4-1957)
Statutory reference:
   False reports to police radio, see MCLA 750.509
   Reporting fictitious crimes to peace officers, see MCLA 750.411a
§ 31-19.1 ALARM SYSTEM USER.
   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall have
the meaning indicated unless their context requires a different meaning.
   ALARM CONTRACTOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity
appropriately licensed as an alarm contractor by the State of Michigan, State
Electrical Administrative Board.
   ALARM SYSTEM.  A device or an assembly of equipment or devices arranged to
signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to which police
officers and/or firefighters are expected to respond.
   ALARM USER. Any person, whether owner, occupant, or tenant, on whose
premises an alarm system maintained within the City except for alarm systems on
motor vehicles. If, however, an alarm system on a motor vehicle is connected
with an alarm system at a premises, the person using such alarm system is an
ALARM USER. Also excluded from this definition and from the coverage of the
ordinance are persons who use alarm systems to alert or signal persons within
the premises in which the alarm system is located, of an attempted unauthorized
intrusion or hold-up attempt. If such a system, however, employs an audible
signal emitting sounds or flashing lights or beacon designed to signal persons
outside the premises, such system shall be within the definition of an alarm
system and shall be subjected to §§
31-19.1 through
31-19.6.
   FALSE ALARM. Any alarm condition which is reported to the City of Flint 911
Center for the response of the Flint Police Department and Fire Department that
is not the result from the activity for which the alarm was intended. A FALSE
ALARM may include, but is not limited to, activation of an alarm system through
any of the following:
      (1)   Negligent or intentional use or misuse of the system;
      (2)   Mechanical failure;
      (3)   Malfunction;
      (4)   Improper installation; or
      (5)   Low battery conditions.
   FIRE OR BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEM. Any device or equipment designed to signal
visibly, audibly, electronically, mechanically or by any combination of these
methods, and to which the Department(s) are trained to respond.
   LETTER FOR EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS. A notification provided to an alarm
contractor by the Department for two (2) or more false alarms within a 12-month
calendar year.
   PREMISES. Any building or structure in which an alarm system is installed.
   QUALIFIED ALARM TECHNICIAN. Any person who inspects, installs, repairs or
performs maintenance on alarm systems and is factory trained and/or licensed by
the State of Michigan.
   RECORD OF COMPLETION. The form required to be filed with the City pursuant
to the National Fire Protection Association’s National Fire Alarm Code (NFPA
72).
   REPORT OF CORRECTIVE MEASURES AGAINST IMPROPER USE. Documentation in a
format acceptable to the City of Flint 911 Enforcement Official that verifies
the alarm contractor has taken appropriate corrective measures to prevent
future improper use of an alarm system.
   REPORT OF SERVICE/REPAIR. Documentation in a format acceptable to the
Enforcement Official that verifies proper repairs or maintenance have been
performed by both the alarm contractor and the alarm user.
   SERVICE FEE. The monetary charge for responding to false alarms.
(Ord. 3376, passed 7-27-1998; Ord. 3753, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 31-19.2 FALSE ALARM FEE.
   (a)   The alarm contractor shall be required to pay to the City the false
alarm fee for each false alarm in excess of two false alarm occasions within
any one- year period. No alarm contractor shall be requested to pay the false
alarm fee on the first two occasions of a false alarm during any one-year
period, but the alarm contractor thereafter shall be advised in writing of said
false alarm and of the existence of this §§
31-19.1 through
31-19.6 by the Flint Police Department.
   (b)   Said notice shall direct the alarm contractor to submit a report of
service/repair and/or a report of corrective measures against improper use
within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of said letter to the Department
confirming that:
      (1)   The alarm system has been examined by a qualified alarm technician;
      (2)   A description of the bona fide attempt made to identify and correct
any defect of design, installation, operation, or misuse of the alarm system
which was identified as a possible cause of the false alarm.
   (c)   Failure of the alarm contractor to return a satisfactory report
described herein within the 15-day period shall result in the imposition of a
service fee to the alarm contractor.
   (d)   A false alarm fee shall be assessed for the third and each subsequent
false alarm at the same premises requiring response by the Police/Fire
Department during any calendar year.
   (e)   A false alarm fee required by this article may be imposed on an alarm
contractor up to forty-five (45) days after the date of installation of the
alarm system for existing buildings and forty-five (45) days after the date an
occupancy permit is issued to an alarm user for newly constructed buildings in
which an alarm system is installed.
   (f)   Should any service fee assessed pursuant to this article remain unpaid
in excess of thirty (30) days, a late fee shall be assessed and shall be
payable in addition to the original service fee.
   (g)   The false alarm fee established by this article shall begin at
seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for a Fire Department response and seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) for a Police Department response and shall increase by twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) for each additional false alarm within the calendar year,
and shall be reviewed periodically based on employee labor rates, equipment
costs and Department service costs and established by appropriate resolution
adopted by the Flint City Council. Late fees as previously identified shall be
thirty-five dollars ($35.00) and shall be added to the false alarm fee.
   (h)   Alarm conditions caused by the following extenuating circumstances
shall not constitute a false alarm, and no false alarm fee shall be charged by
the City:
      (1)   Alarm conditions being activated by an agent of the alarm
contractor working on the alarm system or testing the alarm system with prior
notification to the Police or Fire Department of the City.
      (2)   Alarm conditions being activated by severe weather or other violent
conditions beyond the control of the alarm user.
      (3)   Alarm conditions activated by disruption or disturbance of
telephone or other communication systems.
(Ord. 3376, passed 7-27-1998; Ord. 3753, passed 5-20-2009)
§ 31-19.3 INTERFERENCE WITH TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS.
   No person shall sell, install, operate, adjust, arrange for, or contract to
provide a device or combination of devices that will upon activation, either
mechanically, electronically, or by other means initiate the automatic
intrastate calling, dialing, or connection to any telephone number assigned to
any subscriber thereof by a public telephone company, for the purposes of
delivering a recorded message without the proper written consent of such
subscriber.
(Ord. 3376, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 31-19.4 AUDIBLE OR VISUAL SIGNALS.
   No person shall use, install, or direct to be installed any alarm system
which emits a sound and/or visual signal for a period of longer than thirty
(30) minutes from the time of the initial signaling of the devices.
(Ord. 3376, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 31-19.5 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, partnership or any other legal entity who shall
violate or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this ordinance or any
of the regulations adopted pursuant thereto, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof, may be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or in prison not more than ninety (90) days, or both, in the
discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 3376, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 31-19.6 SEVERABILITY.
   If any portion of this ordinance shall be determined invalid or
unconstitutional by the Court, the remainder shall be considered severable and
shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 3376, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 31-19.7 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION.
   (a)   The Chief of Police shall establish written rules and regulations to
implement the provisions of this ordinance. The rules and regulations shall
provide for implementation of this ordinance including tracking of alarms,
notification of false alarms and the appeals procedure and criteria for
removing an alarm response from the false alarm category.
   (b)   All rules and regulations promulgated by the Chief of Police pursuant
to this section shall be submitted to an approved by the City Council before
becoming effective. Following approval, a copy of such rules shall be provided
to the City Clerk and be made available to the public.
(Ord. 3383, passed 9-14-1998)
§ 31-20 FIREARMS — HANDLING, FIRING AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   Definition. The word FIREARM, except as otherwise specifically defined
in this Code, shall be construed to include any weapon from which a dangerous
projectile may be propelled by using explosives, gas or air as a means of
propulsion, except any smooth bore rifle or handgun designed and manufactured
exclusively for propelling BBs not exceeding .177 calibre by means of spring,
gas or air.
   (b)   License required. A person shall not purchase, carry, possess, or
transport a firearm without first having obtained a license for the firearm as
prescribed in MCLA § 28.422.
   (c)   Discharging or brandishing. It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge a firearm or to knowingly brandish a firearm in public, except as
provided in any of the following:
      (1)   A peace officer lawfully performing his duties as a peace officer;
      (2)   A person lawfully engaged in hunting;
      (3)   A person lawfully engaged in target practice;
      (4)   A person lawfully engaged in the sale, purchase, repair or transfer
of that firearm.
   (d)   Observer. Any person observed doing any of those things prohibited by
this section shall be required to represent to any peace officer, forthwith,
evidence of authorization that the person is exempt from the provisions
thereof.
(Ord. 146, passed 10-5-1915; Ord. 1846, passed 9-9-1965; Ord. 2161, passed 9-
29-1969; Ord. 3780, passed 8-23-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Firearms, see MCLA 28.422
§ 31-20.1 SAME — MINORS POSSESSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person seventeen (17) years of age or under to
possess, carry or transport any firearm as defined by MCLA § 750.222, being MSA
§ 28.419, within the City, unless such minor is in possession of a valid
hunting license issued by the State and the rifle or shotgun is being
transported in the manner prescribed by State law.
(Ord. 2822, passed 2-8-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Michigan Penal Code, see MCLA 750.222 et seq.
§ 31-20.2 ACCESS TO FIREARMS BY MINORS.
   (a)   Definition. For the purposes of this section the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated unless their context requires a different meaning.
      AMMUNITION. Any ammunition cartridge, shell or other device containing
explosive or incendiary material designed and intended for use in any firearm.
      FIREARM. A pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, short-barreled rifle, short-
barreled shotgun, or any other firearm, except for an inoperable antique
firearm.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      SUPERVISED MINOR. A minor who is being trained in the use of a firearm by
a person exercising parental authority and refers only to minors over the age
of twelve years who appear to be willing and able to follow safety
instructions.
   (b)   Loaded firearm/ammunition. Except as provided in this section, a
person shall not leave a loaded firearm, or an unloaded firearm in close
proximity to ammunition for it, in any location where it is reasonably
foreseeable that a minor may gain access to the firearm.
   (c)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply where:
      (1)   A supervised minor has access to a firearm and is supervised by:
         (a)   The parent of the minor, or
         (b)   An adult person who customarily acts in the role of parent of
the minor, or
         (c)   An adult person designated in writing by the minor’s parent to
supervise the minor’s use of a firearm.
      (2)   A firearm is in a locked gun cabinet or similar locked location, or
is secured with a trigger lock or other similar device which prevents the
firearm from discharging ammunition;
      (3)   A minor’s access to a firearm was obtained as a result of an
unlawful entry to the premises; or
      (4)   A firearm is in the possession or control of a law enforcement
officer while the officer is engaged in official duties.
   (d)   Firearms dealer; lock; warning text. The following warning shall be
conspicuously posted in every place of business where firearms are sold, “It is
unlawful to leave a loaded firearm with ammunition for it nearby if it is
foreseeable that a minor may gain access to the firearm. We sell trigger locks
and other safety devices.” The letters in the sign shall be in block form not
less than one inch in height.
   (e)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of up
to five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for ninety (90) days, or
both.
(Ord. 3216, passed 9-23-1992)
§ 31-20.3 FIREWORKS.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this chapter:
      CLASS B FIREWORKS. Toy torpedoes, railway torpedoes, firecrackers or
salutes that do not qualify as Class C fireworks, exhibition display pieces,
aeroplane flares, illuminating projectiles, incendiary projectiles, incendiary
grenades, smoke projectiles or bombs containing expelling charges but without
bursting charges, flash powders in inner units not exceeding two ounces each,
flash sheets in interior packages, flash powder or spreader cartridges
containing not more than 72 grains of flash powder each, and other similar
devices.
      CLASS C FIREWORKS. Toy smoke devices, toy caps containing not more than
.25 grains of explosive mixture, toy propellant devices, cigarette loads, trick
matches, trick noise makers, smoke candles, smoke pots, smoke grenades, smoke
signals, hand signal devices, signal cartridges, sparklers, explosive auto
alarms, and other similar devices.
      FIREWORKS. A device made from explosive or flammable compositions used
primarily for the purpose of producing a visible display or audible effect, or
both, by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS includes Class B
fireworks and Class C fireworks.
   (b)   Sale, possession, transportation, use, prohibited. Except as provided
in subsections (c)(2) through (c)(4), a person, firm, partnership, or
corporation shall not offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, keep
with intent to sell at retail, possess, give, furnish, transport, use, explode,
or cause to explode any of the following:
      (1)   A blank cartridge, blank cartridge pistol, toy cannon, toy cane, or
toy gun in which explosives are used.
      (2)   An unmanned balloon which requires fire underneath to propel it and
is not moored to the ground while aloft.
      (3)   Firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman candles, daygo bombs,
bottle rockets, whistling chasers, rockets on sticks, or other fireworks of
like construction.
      (4)   Fireworks containing an explosive or inflammable compound or a
tablet or other device commonly used and sold as fireworks containing nitrates,
fulminates, chlorates, oxalates, sulfides of lead, barium, antimony, arsenic,
mercury, nitroglycerine, phosphorus, or a compound containing these or other
modern explosives.
   (c)   Exceptions. A permit is not required for the following:
      (1)   Flat paper caps containing not more than .25 of a grain of
explosive content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum
explosive content per cap.
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noise makers, and
toy guns of a type approved by the Director of the Department of State Police
in which paper caps as described in subsection (c)(1) are used and which are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for
the explosion and which are not designed to break apart or be separated so as
to form a missile by the explosion.
      (3)   Sparklers containing not more than .0125 pounds of burning portion
per sparkler.
      (4)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding one-eighth inch in
diameter, cone fountains and cylinder fountains.
      (5)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes
with not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sale and if the manufacturer’s
name and the quantity contained in each box are printed on the box; and toy
smoke devices.
      (6)   Possession, transportation, sale or use of signal flares of a type
approved by the Director of the Department of State Police, blank cartridges or
blank cartridge pistols specifically for a show or theater, for the training or
exhibiting of dogs, for signal purposes in athletic sports, for use by military
organizations, and all items described in subsection (b) used by railroads for
emergency signal purposes.
      (7)   The sale of fireworks, provided they are to be shipped directly out
of State pursuant to regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation covering the transportation of explosives and other dangerous
articles by motor, rail, and water.
      (8)   Nothing contained in the exceptions listed in this subsection (c)
shall be construed to alter an individual’s or businesses’ obligation to obtain
a license to sell fireworks pursuant to §
12-260.
   (d)   Permit for use or sale of fireworks; application; purpose of use; age
limitation. 
      (1)   The Fire Marshal, upon application in writing, on forms provided by
the Fire Department, may grant a permit for the use of fireworks otherwise
prohibited by subsection (b), within the corporate limits, manufactured for
outdoor pest control or agricultural purposes, or for public display by
municipalities, fair associations, amusement parks, or other organizations or
groups of individuals approved by the City, if the applicable provisions of
this section are complied with. After a permit has been granted, sales,
possession, or transportation of fireworks for the purposes described in the
permit only may be made. A permit granted under this subsection shall not be
transferable, nor shall a permit be issued to a person under the age of 18
years.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal, upon application in writing, may grant a permit,
on forms provided by the Fire Department, to a resident wholesale dealer or
jobber to have in his/her possession within the corporate limits, fireworks
otherwise prohibited by subsection (b), for sale only to holders of permits as
provided in this section. A permit granted under this subsection is not
transferable, nor shall a permit be issued to a person under the age of 18
years.
      (3)   Before a permit for a pyrotechnic display is issued, the person,
firm, or corporation making application therefor shall furnish proof of
financial responsibility by a bond or insurance in an amount deemed necessary
by the Fire Marshal to satisfy claims for damages to property or personal
injuries arising out of an act or omission on the part of the person, firm, or
corporation, or an agent or employee thereof, in the amount, character, and
form the Fire Marshal determines necessary for the protection of the public.
      (4)   A permit shall not be issued to a nonresident person, firm, or
corporation for conduct of a pyrotechnic display in this State until the
person, firm, or corporation has appointed in writing a resident member of the
bar of this State or a resident agent to be his legal representative upon whom
all process in an action or proceeding against him may be served.
      (5)   The Fire Marshal shall rule on the competency and qualifications of
operators of pyrotechnic displays, as the operator has furnished in his
application form, and on the time, place, and safety aspects of the displays
before granting permits.
   (e)   Storage of fireworks; wholesalers, dealers and jobbers. The storage of
fireworks at the site of a wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, except for a retailer
who has goods on hand for sale to the public in a supervised display area,
shall be as follows:
      (1)   In a one-story, noncombustible building without a basement, which
building is weather resistant, well ventilated, and equipped with a strong door
kept securely locked except when open for business.
      (2)   The location of the storage building shall be approved by the Fire
Marshal, and shall be located not less than the distances, set forth in MCLA §
750.243d(b), from inhabited buildings, passenger railroads, and public highways
according to the number of pounds of fireworks stored, rounded to the nearest
pound.
      (3)   A person shall not cause or allow smoking, matches, open flames,
spark producing devices, or firearms inside of or within 50 feet of a building
used for the storage of fireworks. A person shall not store combustible
materials within 50 feet of a building used for the storage of fireworks.
      (4)   The interior of a building used for the storage of fireworks shall
be kept clean and free from debris and empty containers. A person shall not use
a building used for the storage of fireworks for the storage of any metal tools
or any commodity other than fireworks.
      (5)   A person shall not provide a building used for the storage of
fireworks with heat or lights, except that if lights are necessary, an electric
safety flashlight or safety lantern shall be used.
      (6)   A building used for the storage of fireworks shall bear lettering
on each side and top in letters not less than four inches high, the words
“EXPLOSIVES – KEEP FIRE AWAY.”
      (7)   A building used for the storage of fireworks shall be under the
supervision of a competent person, who shall be not less than 18 years of age.
      (8)   In addition to the requirements of MCLA § 750.243d(b), salutes that
do not qualify as Class C fireworks shall be considered to be hazardous
material and shall be stored in accordance with rules for the storage and
handling of hazardous material promulgated under Section 3c of Public Act 207
of 1941, as amended, being MCLA § 29.3c.
   (f)   Penalty; misdemeanor.
      (1)   Any person, firm, copartnership or corporation, who violates any of
the provisions of subsections (a) to (c) or who violates the terms of any
permit issued thereunder, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by 90 days in
jail and/or a $500.00 fine. Nothing in this section shall preclude additional
penalties for violations of the Michigan Fireworks Act that are also violations
of this fireworks ordinance.
      (2)   Any member of the City Police Department or Fire Marshal may
confiscate any fireworks found within the City in violation of Federal or State
law, or in violation of the City Code (including any quantity of otherwise
lawful fireworks in excess of ten pounds gross weight or one hundred pounds
gross weight in the case of a licensed retail dealer).
(Ord. 3472, passed 5-29-2001)
Statutory references:
   See MCLA § 29.3c, § 750.243a, § 750.243b, § 750.243d, § 750.243e
§ 31-21 FIXTURES AND THE LIKE FOR LIGHTING PUBLIC PLACES — DAMAGING OR
DESTROYING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or destroy any lighting
fixture, bulb, cable, wire, insulator, transformer or any other equipment
designed for the illumination of any public street, park, playground, or other
public place, or any equipment designed for the production or transmission of
electrical current for the illumination.
(Ord. 2020, passed 12-11-1967)
§ 31-22 GAMBLING HOUSE — KEEPING.
   No person or persons shall keep any house, building, room, shed, yard,
garden or dependency thereof, to be used or occupied for gambling or gaming,
and no person or persons, being the owner or owners of any such house,
building, room, shed, yard or garden, shall rent or lease the same to be used
or occupied for gambling or gaming.
(Ord. 144, passed 3-10-1902)
Cross-reference:
   Gambling at airport, see §
5-15
   Games of skill or chance at carnivals and the like, see §
8-53
   Mechanical amusement device with automatic payoff prohibited, see §
12-36
Statutory reference:
   Gambling, see MCLA 750.301 et seq.
§ 31-23 SAME — PERMITTING HOUSE TO BE USED FOR GAMBLING.
   If any person or persons being the owner or owners, lessee or lessees or
managers of any house, building, room, shed, yard or garden shall know that any
gambling or gaming table, implement or apparatus for gambling or gaming are
kept or used in such house, building, room, shed, yard or garden for winning or
gaining money or other valuable thing, and shall not forthwith cause a
complaint to be made against the person or persons so keeping or using such
house, building, room, shed, yard or garden, such person or persons shall be
taken, held and considered to have knowingly permitted the same to be used and
occupied for gaming or gambling.
(Ord. 144, passed 3-10-1902)
§ 31-24 SAME — FREQUENTING.
   No person or persons shall resort to any house, building, room, shed, yard,
garden or other place within the City of Flint, for the purpose of gaming or
gambling, or aiding or abetting therein, and no person shall, while in any
saloon, or in or at any other place whatsoever in the City, engage in gaming or
gambling, or aid or abet therein, by advising or assisting the principals, or
by buying any check, slip, card or ticket to represent money to be used in
betting on the result of any game.
(Ord. 144, passed 3-10-1902)
§ 31-25 SAME — RIGHT OF ENTRY OF POLICE; SEIZURE AND DISPOSITION OF GAMBLING
DEVICES.
   The Chief of Police or any member of the Police force of the City may enter
any house, building, room, shed, yard, garden or other place where they have
good reason to believe and do believe any gaming or gambling is going on, or
any gaming instrument or device or thing used for the purpose of gaming on or
with, by which money or other valuable thing may be lost or won is used, kept
or concealed, and no person or persons shall in any manner refuse to admit such
officers, when admittance is demanded by them, or in any manner hinder or delay
them from entering upon demand; said officers may seize or direct to be seized
any such instrument, device or thing used for the purpose of gaming on or with
by which money or other valuable thing may be lost or won, and all such
instruments, devices and things may be demolished or destroyed under the
direction of the Chief of Police in case the person or persons in whose
possession the same were found shall be convicted of gambling. If such articles
are not found in the immediate possession of any person, they shall be kept for
a claimant, any person claiming to have been the owner thereof at the time of
the taking of the same as aforesaid, shall be as aforesaid upon giving
sufficient surety to keep the peace, entitled to a return of such articles, if
not convicted.
(Ord. 144, passed 3-10-1902)
§ 31-26 GLUE, MARIHUANA, CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND OTHER TOXIC SUBSTANCES —
DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN TERMS.
   As used in this ordinance:
   MODEL AIRPLANE GLUE. Any glue or cement of the type commonly used in the
building of model airplanes, boats and automobiles, containing toluene,
acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, ethylene dichloride, benzene, carbon
tetrachloride, chloroform and other ketones, esters, alcohols, or other solvent
or chemical having the property of releasing toxic vapors.
   OTHER TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Naphtha, methanol, toxic esters, ethanol, ester,
methyl cellusolve acetate or other volatile substances containing naphtha,
methanol or ethanol as active ingredients.
(Ord. 1899, passed 4-18-1966)
§ 31-27 SAME — PURCHASE, SALE AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to violate
any provision of §§
31-27.1 through
31-31, intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer possession or receive
possession of any model airplane glue, marihuana or other toxic substances.
(Ord. 1899, passed 4-18-1966; Ord. 2982, passed 3-10-1986)
§ 31-27.1 SAME — UNLAWFUL DELIVERY OF AND UNLAWFUL POSSESSION WITH INTENT TO
DELIVER.
   (a)   For the purpose of this section:
      DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer from
one person to another of marihuana, whether or not there is an agency
relationship, whether or not there is an exchange for money or any other thing
of value.
      MANUFACTURE. The preparation, compounding, conversion, planting,
cultivating, growing, harvesting or processing of marihuana either directly or
indirectly by extraction from substances of natural origin, or independently by
means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical
synthesis, and includes any packaging or repackaging of the substance.
      MARIHUANA. All parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa L. whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the
plant, its seeds or resin. It does not include the mature stalks of the plant,
fiber produced from stalks, oil or cakes made from the seeds of the plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the
mature stalks, except the resin extracted therefrom, fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or
association, or any other legal entity.
      POSSESSION. Knowingly or intentionally to exercise dominion or control
over a controlled substance.
   (b)   Except as authorized by Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, known as
the Public Health Code, it is unlawful for any person to manufacture, deliver
or possess with intent to deliver marihuana.
   (c)   Except as authorized by Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, known as
the Public Health Code, it is unlawful for any person to possess marihuana.
(Ord. 2677, passed 11-13-1978; Ord. 2715, passed 6-25-1979; Ord. 2982, passed
3-10-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Public Health Code, see MCLA 333.1101 et seq.
§ 31-27.1.1 MEDICAL EXEMPTION FOR POSSESSION AND USE OF MARIHUANA AND MARIHUANA
PARAPHERNALIA.
   (a)   The provisions of §
31-11(e), §
31-12(a)(16), §
31-26, §
31-27, §
31-27.1, §
31-27.2, §
31-27.3, and §
31-27.3.1 shall not apply to those persons who use or possess marihuana or
marihuana paraphernalia for medical purposes, under the recommendation and
direction of a physician, and who possess written proof of same, and shall not
apply to caregivers who possess marihuana or marihuana paraphernalia for
delivery to such persons.
   (b)   CAREGIVER shall be construed to mean such a person or persons who bear
substantial responsibilities for meeting the medical needs of a person who
possesses or uses marihuana or marihuana paraphernalia under the recommendation
and direction of a physician.
(Ord. 3695, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 31-27.2 DEFINITIONS RELATIVE TO CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   COCAINE SPOON. A spoon with a bowl so small that the primary use for which
it is reasonably adapted or designed is to hold or administer cocaine, and
which is so small as to be unsuited for the typical, lawful use of a spoon. A
COCAINE SPOON may or may not be merchandised on a chain and may or may not be
labeled as a “cocaine” spoon or “coke” spoon.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor enumerated
in Sections 7210 – 7220, Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, as amended,
commonly known as the Public Health Code.
   MARIHUANA or HASHISH PIPE. A pipe characterized by a bowl which is so small
that the primary use for which it is reasonably adapted or designed is smoking
of marihuana or hashish, rather than lawful smoking of tobacco, and which may
or may not be equipped with a screen.
   PARAPHERNALIA. An empty gelatin capsule, hypodermic syringe or needle,
cocaine spoon, marihuana pipe, hashish pipe, or any other instrument, implement
or device which is primarily adapted or designed for the administration or use
of any controlled substance.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision
or agency, trust, business trust, estate, partnership or association.
(Ord. 2981, passed 2-24-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Public Health Code, see MCLA 333.1101 et seq.
§ 31-27.3 USE OF PARAPHERNALIA FOR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, display,
furnish, supply or give away any empty gelatin capsule, hypodermic syringe or
needle, cocaine spoon, marihuana pipe, hashish pipe, or other instrument,
implement or device that is primarily adapted or designed for the
administration or use of any controlled substance as enumerated in Sections
7210 – 7220, Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, as amended, commonly known as
the Public Health Code, being MCLA §§ 333.1101 et seq. and MSA §§ 14.15(1101)
et seq.
   (b)   The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to
manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, licensed medical technicians,
technologists, nurses, hospitals, research teaching institutions, clinical
laboratories, medical doctors, osteopathic physicians, dentists, chiropodists,
veterinarians, pharmacists or embalmers in the normal, lawful course of their
respective businesses or professions, nor to common carriers or warehouses or
their employees engaged in the lawful transportation of such paraphernalia, nor
to public officers or employees while engaged in the performance of their
official duties, nor to persons suffering from diabetes, asthma, or any other
medical condition requiring self- injections.
   (c)   The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to persons
who are participants of the Wellness AIDS Service Incorporated Approved Syringe
Exchange Program.
(Ord. 2981, passed 2-24-1986; Ord. 3763, passed 1-11-2010; Ord. 3797, passed 8-
8-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Public Health Code, see MCLA 333.1101 et seq.
§ 31-27.3.1 NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF § 31-27.3.
   Before a person can be arrested or charged with a violation of §
31-27.3 hereof, the Chief Legal Officer for the City of Flint shall notify the
person in writing, not less than two (2) days before the person is to be
arrested or charged, that the person is in possession of a specific material
that has been determined by the Chief Legal Officer to be unlawful under the
terms of §
31-27.3 hereof. The notice shall request that the person refrain from offering
the material for sale, and shall further state that no arrest will be made or
charges filed in the event that person complies with the notice. Compliance
shall be complete defense to prosecution under §
31-27.3 so long as compliance continues.
(Ord. 3097, passed 4-24-1989)
§ 31-27.4 PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS OF §§ 31-27.2 AND 31-27.3.
   A person who violates any provision or provisions of §§
31-27.2 and
31-27.3, upon conviction, shall be punished with a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for a period not to exceed ninety
(90) days, or both, in the discretion of the Court. Each day of the violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2981, passed 2-24-1986)
§ 31-28 PROOF THAT PURCHASER OF MODEL AIRPLANE GLUE IS 17 OR OLDER.
   Any person who offers for public sale any model airplane glue as defined
herein shall first require proof that the purchaser is seventeen years of age
or older and shall require identification in the nature of a driver’s license
or other valid proof of age.
(Ord. 1899, passed 4-18-1966)
§ 31-29 RECORDS OF SELLER OF MODEL AIRPLANE GLUE.
   Any person, firm or corporation who offers for public sale any model
airplane glue shall be required to maintain a permanent record, recording the
name and address of the purchaser and the date, time, substance and quantity
sold to any purchaser of model airplane glue as defined by this ordinance. Said
record shall be available for inspection by any legitimate police officer at
any reasonable time for a period of a least six months.
(Ord. 1899, passed 4-18-1966)
§ 31-30 INHALING OF MODEL AIRPLANE GLUE; USE OF SEEDS.
   (a)   No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of
intoxication, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or dulling of
the senses or nervous system, intentionally smell or inhale the fumes from any
model airplane glue or other toxic substances; provided, however, that this
section shall not apply to the inhalation of any anesthesia for medical or
dental purpose.
   (b)   No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of
intoxication, euphoria, excitement, exhilaration, stupefaction or dulling of
the senses or nervous system, intentionally use any seeds of the plants
botanically known as the family of Ipomoea and Ololiuqui.
(Ord. 1899, passed 4-18-1966)
§ 31-31 DISPLAY OR STORAGE OF SUBSTANCES BY SELLER.
   The substances described in §
31-26 hereof shall not be displayed or stored in such a manner to allow the
purchase of same without a request therefor being made of the vendor by the
vendee.
(Ord. 1899, passed 4-18-1966)
§ 31-32 PROSTITUTION — GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the City of Flint to engage in
prostitution, to patronize a prostitute, to promote prostitution, to permit
prostitution, to solicit or invite another person to commit prostitution, or to
profit from prostitution.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-33 CRIME OF PROSTITUTION.
   A person commits the crime of prostitution if he engages in or agrees or
offers to engage in sexual conduct with another person in return for a fee.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-33.1 PATRONIZING PROSTITUTE.
   A person commits the crime of patronizing a prostitute if:
   (a)   Pursuant to a prior understanding, he pays a fee to another person as
compensation for that person or a third person having engaged in sexual conduct
with him; or
   (b)   He pays or agrees to pay a fee to another person on the understanding
that in return that person or a third person will engage in sexual conduct with
him; or
   (c)   He solicits or requests another person to engage in sexual conduct
with him in return for a fee.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-33.2 SEX OF PARTIES IMMATERIAL IN PROSECUTION FOR PROSTITUTION OR
PATRONIZING PROSTITUTE.
   In any prosecution for prostitution or patronizing a prostitute, the sex of
the two (2) parties or prospective parties to the sexual conduct engaged in,
contemplated, or solicited, is immaterial, and it is no defense that both
persons were of the same sex, or that the person who received, agreed to
receive, or solicited a fee was a male and the person who paid or agreed or
offered to pay the fee was a female.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-33.3 “SEXUAL CONDUCT” DEFINED.
   For purpose of §§
31-32 through
31-33.7, “sexual conduct” shall include the following:
   SEXUAL CONDUCT.
      (1)   Sexual intercourse that has its ordinary meaning and occurs upon
any penetration, however slight. Emission of semen is not required.
      (2)   Deviate sexual intercourse, which means any act of sexual
gratification between persons involving the sex organs of one person and the
mouth or anus of another.
      (3)   Sexual contact, which includes the intentional touching of a
person’s intimate parts or the intentional touching of the clothing covering
the immediate areas of a person’s intimate parts, if the intentional touching
can reasonably be construed as being for the purpose of sexual arousal or
gratification.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975; Ord. 2698, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 3100, passed 6-
26-1989)
§ 31-33.3.1 SEXUAL CONDUCT PERFORMED IN A VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the City of Flint to perform any act
of sexual conduct as defined in §
31-33.3 of the Code of the City of Flint in a vehicle when the vehicle is in
motion, parked, stopped or standing:
   (a)   In a public place; or
   (b)   In an area open to the public; or
   (c)   (1)   On private property when the interior of the vehicle is on view
from a public area or an area open to the public.
      (2)   ON VIEW shall be defined for the purpose of this section as capable
of being seen if the interior of the vehicle is lighted naturally or
artificially, or if unlighted, capable of being seen if it becomes lighted
naturally or artificially, whether the light originates from the interior or
exterior of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2772, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 3100, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 31-33.4 PROMOTING PROSTITUTION.
   (a)   A person commits the crime of promoting prostitution if he knowingly
advances or profits from prostitution.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, a person ADVANCES PROSTITUTION if,
acting other than as a prostitute or a patron of the prostitute, he knowingly
causes or aids a person to commit or engage in prostitution, procures or
solicits patrons for prostitution, provides persons or premises for
prostitution purposes, operates or assists in the operation of a house of
prostitution or a prostitution enterprise, offers to serve as an agent or
manager for prostitution purposes, or engages in any other conduct designed to
institute, aid, or facilitate an act or enterprise of prostitution.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975; Ord. 2848, passed 8-16-1982)
§ 31-33.5 PROFITING FROM PROSTITUTION.
   For the purposes of this ordinance, a person profits from prostitution if,
acting other than as a prostitute receiving compensation for personally
rendered prostitution services, he accepts or receives money or other property
pursuant to an agreement or understanding with any person whereby he
participates or is to participate in the proceeds of prostitution activity.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-33.6 PERMITTING PROSTITUTION.
   A person commits the crime of permitting prostitution if, having possession
or control of premises that he knows are being used for prostitution purposes,
he fails to make reasonable efforts to halt or abate that use.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-33.7 SOLICITING.
   A person commits the crime of soliciting if he:
   (a)   Accosts, solicits, or invites another person in any public place, or
in or from any place, structure, house, building, or vehicle, by word, gesture,
or any other means, to commit prostitution or do any other lewd or immoral or
illegal act; or
   (b)   Receives or admits or offers to receive or admit any person or
knowingly permits any person to remain in any such place for such purpose.
(Ord. 2505, passed 7-28-1975; Ord. 3107, passed 8-14-1989)
§ 31-33.8 PENALTY FOR SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION OF §§ 31-32 – 31-33.7.
   Subject to the maximum penalty set forth in §
1-7 of this Code and subject to other provisions of the law, persons found
guilty of violation of §§
31-32 through
31-33.7 of this Code on a second or subsequent occasion shall be punished by a
fine or imprisonment which shall exceed any previous fine or imprisonment
levied against such person for the last previous offense.
(Ord. 2626, passed 4-10-1978)
§ 31-34 FILING COMPLAINT AGAINST SUSPECTED HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION — ISSUANCE OF
WARRANT; ARRESTS.
   If any person shall make complaint on oath, in writing, before any Court in
the City of Flint, that he suspects or has probable cause to suspect that any
house or building, or other place in the City of Flint, is kept or used as a
bawdy house or house of ill-fame, or place for the resort of prostitutes or
persons for the purpose of prostitution, or to associate with prostitutes, or
that persons do resort to such house, building or other place for the purpose
of prostitution, or to associate with prostitutes, whether the names of the
persons concerned are known to the complainant or not, the Court shall issue a
warrant directed to the Chief of Police or any police officer of the City,
commanding such Chief of Police or police officer to enter into such house,
building or other place, and arrest all prostitutes there found and all persons
appearing to be there for the purpose of prostitution, or for the purpose of
associating with prostitutes, and also the keeper or keepers of said house,
building or place and the dwellers therein, and bring them before said Court to
be dealt with according to law.
(Ord. 43, passed 10-17-1902)
§ 31-35 SAME — EXECUTION OF WARRANT.
   The officer to whom such warrant shall be delivered shall execute the same
according to the command thereof, and shall return it to the Court, and his
return shall specify what persons were arrested by him as prostitutes, and what
persons were arrested by him as keepers of the house, building or place and
dwellers therein, and what persons were arrested by him as being there for the
purpose of prostitution, or associating with prostitutes, and shall retain the
custody of said person or persons until complaint shall be made and a proper
warrant issued and such person or persons arrested thereon; provided, that this
section and §
31-34 shall not be construed to prohibit the issuing of a warrant in the first
instance to arrest any person or persons charged upon oath with violating any
of this ordinance.
(Ord. 43, passed 10-17-1902)
§ 31-36 ICEBOXES, REFRIGERATORS OR OTHER AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS; ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place, leave, or
suffer or permit to remain in any place accessible to children, any icebox,
refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an airtight door, or
lock or device, which may not be released for opening from the inside of said
icebox, refrigerator or container, except an icebox, refrigerator or container
in actual use for the storage of food or drugs and except an icebox,
refrigerator or container used for display purposes inside of any store
building and attended by some employee of such store, unless the door or doors
shall have first been removed from such icebox, refrigerator or container, or
unless the lock or device thereon shall have first been removed so that such
door may be released for opening from the inside of such icebox, refrigerator
or container, or unless a metal strap, band or wire of at least 400 pounds
tensile strength shall have first been tightly and securely placed about said
icebox, refrigerator or other container in such a manner as to effectively
prevent the opening of the door without removing such strap, band or wire, and
which strap, band or wire shall have been mechanically fastened or sealed in
such a manner that the strap, band or wire cannot be removed from said icebox,
refrigerator or container, except by mechanical means, or unless said door
shall have been securely padlocked.
(Ord. 1138, passed 10-19-1953)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see MCLA 750.493d
§ 31-37 DANGEROUS WEAPONS — POSSESSION RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in possession of a knife with a
blade more than three inches in length, any blackjack, slingshot, billy,
metallic knuckles, sand club, sand bag, karate sticks, nunchucks, shurikens
(sharpened stars or discs used for throwing), bludgeon or any other dangerous
or deadly weapon or instrument, in any of the streets, alleys, parks,
boulevards or other public property or schools in the City, or in any dance
hall, theater, amusement park, liquor establishment, store or other private
property generally frequented by the public for purposes of education,
recreation, amusement, entertainment, sport or shopping. The prohibition
contained in this section shall not apply to any person in possession of any
such weapon or instrument when it is used or carried in good faith as a tool of
honest work, trade, business, sport or recreation, when the person in
possession of such weapon or instrument is actively engaged therein or actively
engaged in going to or returning from such honest work, trade, business, sport
or recreation, or is transporting such weapon or instrument directly to that
individual’s residence or place of business immediately after purchase, or
unless such person is licensed by the State of Michigan to carry a concealed
weapon and then only in accordance with any restrictions upon said license.
(Ord. 1840, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 2864, passed 12-20-1982)
Cross-reference:
   Provisions regarding firearms, see §§
31-20,
31-20.1
§ 31-38 SAME — SAME — MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
be in possession of any knife, dart or instrument of any description that could
be used for cutting or stabbing, any blackjack, slingshot, billy, metallic
knuckles, sand club, sand bag, karate sticks, nunchucks, shurikens (sharpened
stars or discs used for throwing) or bludgeon or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument in any streets, alleys, parks, boulevards or other public
property or schools in the City, or in any dance hall, theater, amusement park,
liquor establishment, store or other private property generally frequented by
the public for purposes of education, recreation, amusement, entertainment,
sport or shopping; provided, this section shall not apply to any such person
under the age of eighteen (18) years of age being in possession of any such
weapon or instrument when it is used or carried in good faith as a tool of
honest work, trade, business, sport or recreation, or when used in good faith
as equipment related to and required for any legitimate sport, recreation or
youth character building program, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and the like, when
actively engaged therein or actively engaged in going to or returning from such
honest work, trade, business, sport, recreation or youth character building
program, or unless such person is licensed by the State of Michigan to carry a
concealed weapon, and then only in accordance with any restrictions upon said
license.
(Ord. 1840, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 2864, passed 12-20-1982)
§ 31-39 POSSESSION OR SALE OF SWITCH BLADE.
   (a)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for
sale, keep, possess, use or loan any switch blade or self-opening knife;
provided, that the prohibition of this section shall not apply to any one-armed
person in possession of such a knife in connection with his living
requirements.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DART. A pointed weapon or stick thrown by hand.
      SWITCH BLADE or SELF-OPENING KNIFE. A knife containing a blade which can
be opened by depressing a button, pressure on the handle, release of a spring
or other mechanical contrivance.
(Ord. 1840, passed 5-10-1965)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see MCLA 750.226a
§ 31-40 SAME — SALE, GIFT OR LOAN TO MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away or
loan to any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years any dart or knife,
blackjack, slingshot, billy, metallic knuckles, sand club, sand bag, karate
sticks, nunchucks, shurikens (sharpened stars or discs used for throwing)
bludgeon or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument, when such
person knows or reasonably should have known that the minor child was under
eighteen (18) years of age. Provided, however, that the prohibitions contained
in this article shall not apply when the person selling, offering for sale,
giving away or loaning such weapon or instrument reasonably and in good faith
believes that such weapon or instrument will be used by such minor as equipment
related to and required for any legitimate sport, recreation or youth character
building program, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, and the like, when actively engaged
therein or actively engaged in going to or returning from such honest work,
trade, business, sport, recreation or youth character building program.
(Ord. 1840, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 2864, passed 12-20-1982)
§ 31-40.1 SAME — EXCEPTIONS TO RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITION.
   The prohibitions contained in §§
31-37 and
31-38 shall not apply to any person in possession of any such weapons or
instruments which could be used as a tool of honest work, trade, business,
sport or recreation, in a store or other public or private property generally
frequented by the public provided such person or the employer of such person is
duly licensed for such location by the City of Flint as an initial merchant, or
such other licensing as may be appropriate.
(Ord. 2864, passed 12-20-1982)
§ 31-41 SAME — VIOLATIONS.
   Any police officer may, and it shall be his duty to arrest without process
any person found violating any provision of this ordinance.
(Ord. 1840, passed 5-10-1965)
§ 31-41.1 BRANDISHING TOY, REPLICA OR FACSIMILE FIREARMS.
   (a)   (1)   FIREARM. The same as in § 31-20 hereof.
      (2)   TOY, REPLICA or FACSIMILE OF A FIREARM. Any device or object made
of plastic, wood, metal or any other material which is a replica, facsimile or
toy version of, or is otherwise recognizable as, a pistol, revolver, shotgun,
sawed-off shotgun, rifle, machine gun, rocket launcher or any other firearm. As
used in this section, TOY, REPLICA or FACSIMILE OF A FIREARM. includes all
inoperative firearms or any other device which might reasonably be perceived to
be a real firearm.
   (b)   No person shall market for sale or sell any toy, replica or facsimile
of a firearm in the city to anyone other than an adult, and if given to other
than an adult, the piece shall be painted in illuminating colors or orange,
yellow or lime; tipped, striped or solid. The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to any toy, replica or facsimile of a firearm which, because of
its distinct color, exaggerated size, or other design feature, cannot
reasonably be perceived to be a real firearm.
   (c)   No person shall, except in self-defense, draw, exhibit or brandish a
replica firearm in a threatening manner so as to cause the victim to reasonably
believe that the person is actually in possession of an operable firearm.
   (d)   No person shall draw, exhibit or brandish a toy, replica or facsimile
of a firearm, or simulate a firearm in the presence of a law enforcement
officer, firefighter, emergency medical technician or paramedic engaged in the
performance of his or her duties, when the person committing such brandishing
knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the law enforcement officer,
firefighter, emergency medical technician or paramedic is engaged in the
performance of his duties.
   (e)   Whoever violates subsection (b) hereof is guilty of the unlawful sale
of a toy, replica or facsimile firearm.
   (f)   Whoever violates subsection (c) hereof is guilty of brandishing a toy,
replica or facsimile firearm.
   (g)   Whoever violates subsection (d) hereof is guilty of brandishing a toy,
replica or facsimile firearm in the presence of a public safety officer.
(Ord. 3291, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 31-41.2 PENALTY FOR § 31-41.1.
   Any individual found guilty of a violation of §
31-41.1 hereof shall be subject to a penalty of up to ninety (90) days
imprisonment and/or a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine, at the discretion of
the Court.
(Ord. 3291, passed 2-26-1995)
§ 31-42 LOITERING IN DISTRICT COURT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not being in attendance for transaction
of business with the District Court to loiter or remain standing in the
doorways, hallways, or approaches to the room or rooms in the building provided
by the City of Flint for the use of District Court.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-22-1921)
§ 31-42.1 LOITERING AT THE MTA TRANSPORTATION CENTER.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, not being in attendance for the
transaction of business at the MTA Transportation Center, after having been
ordered by a law enforcement officer to remove himself or herself from the
premises, to loiter or remain standing, sitting or lying down in the doorways,
corridors, approaches, sitting areas, or bus boarding areas when said conduct
has the effect of impeding or obstructing legitimate transportation center
customers or employees from moving about in or around the Transportation
Center.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, not being in attendance for the
transaction of business at the MTA Transportation Center, after having been
ordered by a law enforcement officer to remove himself or herself from the
premises, to loiter or remain standing, sitting or lying down in the doorways,
corridors, approaches, sitting areas, or bus boarding areas when said conduct
has the effect of intimidating others from using the Transportation Center.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, not being in attendance for the
transaction of business at the MTA Transportation Center, after having been
ordered by a law enforcement officer to remove himself or herself from the
premises, to loiter or remain standing, sitting or lying down in the doorways,
corridors, approaches, or bus boarding areas when said conduct is for the
purpose of socializing or resting at the Transportation Center.
   (d)   Prior to issuing a warning, a law enforcement officer must have a
reasonable and articulable suspicion that a suspected perpetrator is not in
attendance at the Transportation Center for the transaction of business.
   (e)   Any violation of subsections (a), (b) or (c) is a misdemeanor
punishable by 90 days in jail and/or a $500.00 fine.
(Ord. 3449, passed 1-10-2000)
§ 31-43 MAGAZINES AND THE LIKE APPEALING TO PRURIENT OR VIOLENT INTERESTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to display for
sale, or otherwise, in a place frequented by persons under the age of eighteen
(18), and in such a position as to be readily accessible to such persons, any
magazine, book, newspaper, tabloid, picture or any other article which depicts
sadistic or masochistic acts, contains lewd and lascivious pictures or
descriptions or contains materials otherwise designed to appeal primarily to
prurient, violent, sadistic or masochistic interests or which contains
classified advertising designed to create acquaintanceships between persons of
the opposite sex. It is the intent of this ordinance to specifically prohibit
the display of “sun bathing” magazines, tabloid-type newspapers containing,
primarily, accounts of crime and violence and magazines containing numerous
photographs or drawings of nude persons. The foregoing enumeration is not
intended to exclude from the ambit of this ordinance other materials designed
to appeal to prurient, violent, sadistic or masochistic interests.
(Ord. 2024, passed 1-22-1968)
§ 31-43.1 SAME — SALE, DISTRIBUTION AND THE LIKE.
   No person, firm or corporation within the City of Flint shall knowingly
either sell, lend, lease, show or distribute, or offer to sell, lend, lease,
show or distribute any obscene book, newspaper, pamphlet, writing, magazine,
photograph, picture, film recording, figure or image.
(Ord. 153, passed 5-31-1921; Ord. 2176, passed 12-8-1969)
§ 31-43.2 POSSESSION OF PRINTED MATERIAL, VISUAL REPRESENTATION OR SOUND
RECORDING DEPICTING OR DESCRIBING BODY OR CONDUCT OF CHILD FOR PURPOSE OF
SEXUAL STIMULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, exhibit, sell, deliver,
provide, purchase or knowingly receive, or offer or agree to make, exhibit,
sell, deliver, provide, purchase or knowingly receive, or have in his
possession with intent to exhibit, sell, deliver, provide, purchase or
knowingly receive, any printed matter, visual representation or sound
recording, including but not limited to books, magazines, motion picture films,
pamphlets, newspapers, pictures, photographs, drawings, sculptures, tape or
wire recordings, which depict or describe the body or conduct of a minor child
under eighteen (18) years of age engaged either actively or passively in sexual
conduct, or the creation of which entailed the use of a minor child under
eighteen (18) years of age engaged either actively or passively in sexual
conduct.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, homosexuality, lesbianism, bestiality,
sexual intercourse or physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed
genitals, pubic area, buttocks or the breast or breasts of a female for the
purpose of sexual stimulation, gratification or perversion. Also the condition
of the human male or female genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or
arousal.
(Ord. 2593, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 31-43.3 DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATERIALS.
   (a)   Viewing in vehicle. A person in a vehicle equipped with a television
viewer, screen, or other means of visually receiving or displaying a television
or video broadcast or prerecorded audio-visual presentation shall not operate
the device upon a highway or other place open to the general public or
generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles, in such a way that obscene material on the device can be
viewed by anyone outside the vehicle when the person has knowledge of the
content and character of the obscene material.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONTEMPORARY COMMUNITY STANDARDS. The customary limits of candor and
decency in the City of Flint at or near the time of the alleged violation of
this act.
      DISPLAY. To show or exhibit to the public not for commercial gain.
      KNOWLEDGE OF CONTENT AND CHARACTER. Having general knowledge of the
nature and character of the material involved. KNOWLEDGE OF CONTENT AND
CHARACTER may be proven by direct evidence or by circumstantial evidence, or
both.
      MATERIAL. Anything tangible that is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse prurient interest, whether through the medium of reading, observation,
sound, or in any other manner, including, but not limited to anything printed
or written, any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, picture, drawing,
pictorial representation, motion picture, photograph, video tape, video disk,
film, transparency, slide, audiotape, audiodisk, computer tape, or any other
medium used to electronically produce or reproduce images on a screen, or any
mechanical, chemical, or electronic reproduction. MATERIAL includes undeveloped
photographs, molds, printing plates, and other latent representational objects
whether or not processing or other acts are required to make the content of the
material apparent.
      OBSCENE. Any material that meets all of the following criteria:
         a.   The average individual, applying contemporary community
standards, would find the material, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient
interest.
         b.   The reasonable person would find the material, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value.
         c.   The material depicts or describes sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way.
      PERSON. An individual, or a sole proprietorship, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity, or an agent or servant of an
individual or legal entity.
      PRURIENT INTEREST. A shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or
excretion.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. One or more of the following:
         a.   Representations or descriptions of ultimate sexual acts, normal
or perverted, actual or simulated.
         b.   Representations or descriptions of masturbation, excretory
functions, or a lewd exhibition of the genitals.
      SIMULATED. The explicit depiction or description of any of the types of
conduct set forth in the definition of sexual conduct above, which creates the
appearance of such conduct.
      ULTIMATE SEXUAL ACTS. Sexual intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, anal
intercourse, or any other intrusion, however slight, of any part of a person’s
body or of any object into the genital or anal openings of another person’s
body, or depictions or descriptions of sexual bestiality, sadomasochism,
masturbation, or excretory functions.
   (c)   Violation. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3621, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 31-44 RESERVED.
§ 31-45 MUNICIPAL CENTER; PRESENCE IN BUILDINGS AFTER 11:00 P.M.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to remain within the
Municipal Center buildings beyond 11:00 p.m. except by specific authorization
from the Chief Administrative Officer of the City of Flint, provided, however,
that officers, officials, and employees of the City of Flint, performing their
assigned duties, shall be permitted in said buildings beyond such hour.
(Ord. 2174, passed 12-6-1969)
§§ 31-45.1, 31-45.2 RESERVED.
§ 31-45.3 PICKETING; CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any person or persons to hinder or prevent by mass picketing,
unlawful threats or intimidation or force the pursuit of any lawful work or
employment;
      (2)   To obstruct or interfere with entrance to or egress from any place
of employment;
      (3)   To obstruct or interfere with free and uninterrupted use of public
roads, streets, highways, railways, airports, or other ways of travel or
conveyance; or
      (4)   To engage in picketing a private residence by any means or methods
whatever; provided, that picketing, to the extent that the same is authorized
under constitutional provisions, shall in no manner be prohibited.
   (b)   Violations of this section shall be a misdemeanor and punishable as
such.
(Ord. 2069, passed 7-22-1968)
§ 31-45.4 POSSESSION OF CERTAIN CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES WITHOUT PRESCRIPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not licensed by the State of Michigan or
Federal government to have in possession, or sell, or use chemical substances
known as methaqualone and flurazepam hydrochloride, unless sold, used or
possessed as the result of a prescription issued by one licensed for that
purpose by the State of Michigan, and in no event shall such prescription be
issued for more than thirty (30) pills, capsules or equivalent liquid dosage.
(Ord. 2364, passed 10-9-1972)
§ 31-46 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS, DRUGS OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES —
RESTRICTED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (a)   Be present in any public place with his ability to walk, talk, or see
significantly impaired by the use of intoxicating liquor or drugs so that he is
either endangering directly the safety of another person or of the property or
is acting in a manner that causes public disturbances.
   (b)   Be present in any public place with his ability to walk, talk, or
significantly impaired by the use of any controlled substance as defined by
Public Act 196 of 1971, as amended, provided however, that this subsection
shall not be construed to apply to a person whose faculties have been impaired
by medication prescribed by a physician and taken as directed.
(Ord. 143, passed 5-31-1921; Ord. 2641, passed 5-22-1978)
Statutory reference:
   “Controlled substance” defined, see MCLA 257.8b
§ 31-47 SAME — ARREST AND DETENTION.
   Police officers and peace officers of said City may, and it shall be the
duty of each of them, to arrest with or without process, any person found by
them or either of them within the City, violating §
31-46 and may convey him or her to the common jail of the County, or some other
place of confinement provided by the City till such person become sober, when
the officer making such arrest shall take such person before the District Court
of said City and if not already made, make a complaint against him or her for
violation of that section. The keeper of said jail or place of confinement
shall safely keep such person therein until taken away by the officer making
the arrest, or by some other person having legal authority to remove him or
her, until such person shall have remained in such jail or place of confinement
24 hours. Or should the arrest be made on Saturday or should Sunday or a legal
holiday intervene, then until the hours of 12:00 of the day next thereafter
upon which a Court may be legally held.
(Ord. 143, passed 5-31-1921)
§ 31-48 PUBLIC STRUCTURES; DEFACING, MARRING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, mar or disfigure any hall,
stairway, interior or exterior finish, restroom, toilet, washroom, furniture or
equipment of any kind in any public building, church or other public structure
within the limits of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 195, passed 10-19-1925; Ord. 1932, passed 9-12-1966)
§ 31-48.1 REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI.
   (a)   All graffiti, including but not limited to writing, symbols, spray
painting, drawings, or defacing of the exterior of any building or structure,
shall be removed, covered or repainted by the building or property owner or
occupant in such a manner as to render the graffiti unseeable within seven days
after the building or structure was defaced.
   (b)   The removal or repair of the graffiti, or defacing shall restore the
exterior of the building or structure as near as possible to its original
condition or color.
   (c)   Upon the property or building owner’s or occupant’s failure to remove
or correct the graffiti or defacing, in addition to the penalties contained in
Chapter 1, §§
1-10 through
1-21 herein, the City may remove or correct the defacing and the cost thereof
shall be charged against the owner or occupant of the property and payment
thereof shall be enforced as a special assessment as provided in the City
Charter and Code of Ordinances.
   (d)   Each day that violation of this section continues to exist shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Ord. 3338, passed 9-23-1996; Ord. 3559, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 31-49 SMOKING ON BUSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, while riding or being in or upon any
electric trolley car, common carrier bus, used or operated on any public street
in the City of Flint for the carriage of passengers for hire, to produce or
cause to be produced by means of a pipe, cigar or cigarette, or other means,
any tobacco smoke except in a compartment therein, if any, designated as a
smoking compartment by the operator of such trolley car or bus.
(Ord. 214, passed 7-25-1926)
§ 31-50 SMOKING OR CARRYING LIGHTED TOBACCO IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or carry lighted tobacco in any
form in any of the following areas:
   (a)   Any portions of a retail establishment where dry goods, fabrics or
clothing are sold.
   (b)   Any public place, at a meeting of a public body and a state or local
governmental agency, food service establishment or any nonsmoking area of a
casino.
   (c)   Any passenger elevator used by the public. The owner or person in
control of any building in which such an elevator is situated shall post signs
clearly visible to all persons entering such elevator.
   (d)   Any hospital or nursing home.
   (e)   Any seating areas of theatres, motion picture theatres, music and
concert halls and libraries.
   (f)   Any display areas of museums.
   (g)   Any area of a business establishment frequented by the public which
has been designated by the owner or person in charge of such establishment and
marked with a sign or signs.
   (h)   A publicly owned hospital campus and publicly owned property
immediately adjacent to a publicly owned hospital campus, any health care
facility or any children’s center.
   (i)   Smoking shall not be permitted on the following streets and sidewalks
internal to the Hurley Medical Center Campus: Sixth Avenue from Grand Traverse
Street to the Hurley Medical Center, Begole Street from Fifth Avenue to the
Hurley Medical Center, Seventh Avenue from Grand Traverse to the Hurley Medical
Center, and Patrick Street from Fifth Avenue to Eighth Avenue.
   (j)   Any hotels, motels and other lodging facilities.
   (k)   Failure to comply shall result in a fine of $25.00 for the first
offense. The fine may be increased by an additional penalty of $25.00 for each
subsequent offense.
(Ord. 2506, passed 7-28-1975; Ord. 3787, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 31-51 DESIGNATION OF AREAS WHERE SMOKING PROHIBITED — DUTY OF OWNER.
   The owner of person in charge of any area where fifty (50) or more persons
gather in an enclosed public space for religious, recreational, political or
social purposes shall designate a reasonable portion of the seating area in
which smoking is not permitted for the use of those persons present who desire
to be separate from persons who are smoking. It shall be unlawful for any
person to smoke in an area so designated.
(Ord. 2506, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-52 SAME — POSTING OF SIGNS.
   In all areas where smoking is prohibited or specifically permitted, the
owner or person in charge of the area must so designate it with a sign or
signs. Such signs shall contain lettering not less than one and one-half inches
in height and state either, “Smoking Prohibited by City Ordinance” or “Smoking
Permitted” and shall be so located as to be clearly visible to the public.
(Ord. 2506, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-53 EFFECTIVE DATE OF SMOKING REGULATIONS.
   This ordinance shall be in full effect and enforceable as of the date
required signs are posted or 30 days from the final passage of this ordinance,
whichever occurs first. It shall also be effective and enforceable upon posting
of required signs or within 30 days any new area described herein is opened to
the public.
(Ord. 2506, passed 7-28-1975)
§ 31-54 ENTRANCE UPON LANDS OR PREMISES OF ANOTHER; FAILURE TO LEAVE UPON
REQUEST.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully enter upon the lands or
premises of another without lawful authority or if contrary to the expressed
wish of the owner, lessee, managing agent or person in control or charge of the
building or premises, or for any person being upon the land or premises of
another upon being notified to depart therefrom by the owner, or occupant, the
agent or servant of either, without lawful authority, neglect or refuse to
depart therefrom.
(Ord. 2594, passed 3-28-1977)
§ 31-55 ACTIONS BLOCKING OR OBSTRUCTING VEHICULAR OR PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC.
   No person, without authority, shall loiter, linger, stay, saunter, delay or
stand around, or do any other act so as to block, obstruct, impede or otherwise
interfere with the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic upon any
public street or highway, sidewalk or any other public place or public building
or an business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon such public street,
highway, public sidewalk or other public place or public building, by means of
a barricade, object or device, or with his person, all or any of which prevents
the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein, thereon or
thereto. This section shall not apply to persons maintaining, rearranging or
constructing public utility facilities in or adjacent to a street or sidewalk,
nor shall it apply to persons peacefully picketing upon places other than a
public street or highway.
(Ord. 2601, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 2862, passed 12-8-1982)
§ 31-56 RESERVED.
§ 31-57 FLINT RIVER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to narrow the channel of Flint River
within the limits City of Flint by means of construction of any wall,
embankment, building or other structure within the channel thereof, or by
placing earth, ashes, cinders, logs, or other material therein that will tend
to diminish the flow of water or obstruct the natural watercourse as it now
exists.
(Ord. 152, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 31-58 HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS OR VISITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to telephone, visit or otherwise
communicate with any person repeatedly or cause the same to be done for the
primary purpose of harassing such other person or his family.
(Ord. 1619, passed 12-19-1960; Ord. 2641, passed 5-22-1978)
§ 31-58.1 SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE —  DEFINED.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. An area on or within five hundred (500) feet of any
building or grounds thereof, or any fields or recreational area or other
grounds lawfully used for school activities by any public, private or parochial
school or community college or university or in any building located within a
SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE.
(Ord. 3153, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 31-58.2 SAME — VIOLATIONS THEREIN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any Flint
city ordinance or State statute within the school safety zone.
(Ord. 3153, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 31-58.3 HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS.
   (a)   Any person is guilty of a misdemeanor who maliciously uses any service
provided by a communications common carrier with intent to terrorize, frighten,
intimidate, threaten, harass, molest or annoy any person, including 911
emergency dispatchers, or to disturb the peace and quiet of any person,
including 911 emergency dispatchers by any of the following:
      (1)   Threatening physical harm or damage to any person or property in
the course of a telephone conversation;
      (2)   Falsely and deliberately reporting by telephone or telegraph
message that any person has been injured, has suddenly taken ill, has suffered
death, or has been the victim of a crime, or of an accident;
      (3)   Deliberately refusing or failing to disengage a connection between
a telephone and another telephone or between a telephone and other equipment
provided for the transmission of messages by telephone, thereby interfering
with any communications service;
      (4)   Using any vulgar, indecent, obscene or offensive language or
suggesting any lewd or lascivious act in the course of a telephone
conversation.
   (b)   Violation.
      (1)   Any person who violates this division is guilty of a misdemeanor
which is punishable by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or a
maximum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00), or both.
      (2)   Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation for the purpose of the Court imposing punishment under this division.
(Ord. 3341, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 31-59 CREATING DISTURBANCE, UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY, FIREARMS, DANGEROUS WEAPONS
ON SCHOOL PROPERTY AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person found to be creating a disturbance
on any private, public or parochial school or community college or university
or on the grounds thereof, or on fields or recreational areas or other grounds
lawfully used for school activities while such activities are in progress, to
remain on the premises after being directed to leave by the principal or by any
other authorized personnel.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter and remain in any public,
private or parochial school or community college or university building during
regular or special sessions or other authorized activities of such schools,
unless said person is a regularly enrolled student, teacher, authorized
volunteer or other school district employee, unless he shall have first and
immediately proceeded to the administrative offices and identified himself to
the principal or any other authorized personnel.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter and remain in any public,
private or parochial school, community college or university or on surrounding
grounds of the school building after being requested to leave by the principal
or any other authorized personnel.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a person licensed by
the State of Michigan to carry a concealed weapon to possess, carry or
transport onto or into any private, public or parochial school or community
college or university or on any property under the supervision or jurisdiction
of any private, public or parochial school or community college or university
any pistol or other firearm or any dagger, dirk, razor, stiletto, knife or
other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly have any pistol or
other firearm or any dagger, dirk, razor, stiletto, knife or other dangerous
weapon or instrument in any area under his control such as, but not limited to,
a locker or automobile in any private, public or parochial school or community
college or university or on any grounds surrounding any such school, community
college or university, unless such person is licensed by the State of Michigan
to carry a concealed weapon, and then only in accordance with the restrictions
upon said license.
(Ord. 2641, passed 5-22-1978; Ord. 2823, passed 2-8-1982; Ord. 3008, passed 8-
25-1986)
§ 31-60 FILING UNTRUE COMPLAINT WITH KNOWLEDGE OF UNTRUTH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to file, or cause
to be filed, a complaint with the Ombudsman, when such person, firm or
corporation knows said complaint or the alleged facts on which it is based are
untrue.
(Ord. 2644, passed 5-22-1978)
§ 31-61 GIVING FALSE STATEMENTS UNDER OATH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to knowingly give
or cause to be given under oath a false statement or statements, knowing that
said statement or statements are untrue, to any official of the City of Flint
while in the performance of official duties.
(Ord. 2644, passed 5-22-1978)
§ 31-62 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the offense of larceny, by
stealing the property of another, the value of which does not exceed $200.00.
(Ord. 2657, passed 8-14-1978; Ord. 3397, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 31-63 DESTRUCTION OF OR INJURY TO PROPERTY TO EXTENT OF $100.00 OR LESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and maliciously destroy or
injure the property of another to the extent of $200.00 or less.
(Ord. 2658, passed 8-14-1978; Ord. 3397, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 31-64 DEFRAUDING A BUSINESS.
   (a)   It shall be illegal for any person to put up at any hotel, motel, inn,
restaurant, cafe or place of public accommodation and to procure any food,
entertainment, or accommodation without paying therefor.
   (b)   It shall be illegal for any person to obtain services of any taxicab
or other vehicle for hire licensed by the City of Flint without paying
therefor.
(Ord. 3230, passed 3-8-1993)
§§ 31-65 – 31-69 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. NOISE CONTROL
§ 31-70 SHORT TITLE.
   This article may be cited as “The Noise Control Ordinance of the City of
Flint.”
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
§ 31-71 DEFINITIONS.
   COMMERCIAL AREA. A parcel of land zoned for or legally used for commercial
purposes. A parcel of land which is zoned D-2, D-3, D-4, D-5 or D-6 is legally
being devoted to use which is a principal permitted use in such zoning
districts is presumed to be such an area.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration or similar action, but excluding demolition.
   CONTINUOUS NOISE. Any noise whose level varies less than 5 dB(A) during a
period of at least five (5) minutes.
   DAYTIME. Unless otherwise specifically noted, means the hours from 8:00 a.m.
to 9:00 p.m.
   dB(A). Decibels on the A-weighted network of a sound level meter as
specified in American National Standards Institute Standard 5-1.4 — 1971.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction, or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-way surfaces, or similar
property.
   EMERGENCY. Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma or property damage which demands immediate action.
   IMPULSIVE NOISE. A short burst of sound not exceeding ten (10) seconds in
duration.
   INDUSTRIAL AREA. A parcel of land zoned for or used for industrial purposes.
A parcel of land which is zoned E, F or G, or is legally being devoted to a use
which is a principal permitted use in such zoning districts is presumed to be
such an area.
   INTERMITTENT NOISE. Any noise whose level remains constant which goes on and
off during a course of measurement of at least ten (10) seconds, or goes on and
off during a period of at least five (5) minutes, but which exceeds ten (10)
seconds in duration each time it is on.
   NIGHTTIME. Unless otherwise specifically noticed, means the hours between 9:
00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   NOISE. Any sound occurring on either a perpetual, continuous, intermittent
or impulsive basis. It also means the intensity, frequency, duration and
character of sound, including sound and vibration and subaudible frequencies.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals; or
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensibilities; or
      (3)   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
   PERPETUAL NOISE. Any noise whose level varies less than 3 dB(A) during a
period of at least thirty (30) minutes.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation, and
includes the City and other governmental entities.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. Any imaginary line along the ground surface, and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another person, but not including intrabuilding real property
divisions.
   RECEIVING LAND USE. The use (commercial, industrial or residential) of the
land on or at which a noise is received.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. A parcel of land zoned for or legally used for residential
purposes. A parcel of land which is zoned A-1, A-2, B, C-1, C-2 and D-1 or is
legally being devoted to a use which is a principal permitted use in such
zoning districts is presumed to be such an area.
   WEEKDAY. Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday.
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
§ 31-72 NOISE DISTURBANCES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to unreasonably make, continue, or
cause to be made or continued any noise disturbance. Noncommercial public
speaking and public assembly activities conducted on any public space or public
right-of-way shall be exempt from the operation of this section.
   (b)   The following acts, and the causing thereof are declared to be in
violation of this section.
      (1)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments and similar devices.
Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier, or similar
device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound:
         a.   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary;
         b.   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at fifty (50)
feet (15 meters) from such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a
public right-of-way or public space, or in a boat on public waters;
         c.   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier.
      (2)   Loudspeakers/public address systems.
         a.   Using or operating for noncommercial purposes any loudspeaker,
public address system or similar device during the nighttime, so that the sound
therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real or property
boundary.
         b.   Using or operating for any commercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system, or similar device so that:
            1.   The sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary; or
            2.   During a nighttime or on a public right-of-way or public
space.
         c.   Using or operating for any noncommercial purpose any loudspeaker
attached to a motor vehicle outside of the cab of the vehicle and which
amplifies radio broadcast or recorded sound.
      (3)   Street sales. Offering for sale or selling anything by shouting, or
outcry within any residential or commercial area of the City except with a
permit or license issued pursuant to any other provision of the Flint City
Code.
      (4)   Animals and birds. Owning, possessing or harboring any animal or
bird which frequently or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks
or makes other sounds which create a noise disturbance across a residential
real property boundary.
      (5)   Loading or unloading. Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other
handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans or
similar objects during the nighttime in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary.
      (6)   Vehicle or motorboat repairs and testing.  Repairing, rebuilding,
modifying or testing any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or motorboat in such a
manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary.
      (7)   Places of public entertainment. Operating, playing, or permitting
the operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical
instrument, sound amplifier, or similar device which produces, reproduces, or
amplifies sound in any place of public entertainment at a sound level greater
than 100 dB(A) as read by the slow response on a sound level meter at any point
that is normally occupied by a customer, unless a conspicuous and legible sign
is located outside such place, near each public entrance, stating: “Warning:
Sound Levels Within May Cause Permanent Hearing Impairment.”
      (8)   Explosives, firearms, and similar devices. The use or firing of
explosives, firearms, or similar devices which create impulsive sound so as to
cause a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or in a public space
or right-of-way.
      (9)   Motorboats. Operating or permitting the operation of any motorboat
in any lake, river, stream, or other waterway in such a manner as to exceed a
sound level or 85 dB(A) at fifty (50) feet (15 meters) or the nearest
shoreline, whichever distance is less.
      (10)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the operation of any
mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool,
snowblower, or similar device used outdoors in residential areas during the
nighttime so as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary, except in an emergency.
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979; Ord. 3179, passed 7-22-1991)
§ 31-73 IMPULSIVE NOISE LEVELS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate, cause or permit to be operated any source
of impulsive noise within the City which exceeds the maximum permissible sound
levels established herein, when measured at or within the real property
boundary line of the receiving land use.
   (b)   Maximum permissible sound levels. Maximum permissible sound levels for
receiving land uses are hereby established as follows:
 
Land Use         Daytime   Nighttime
Residential area 80 dB(A)  70 dB(A)
Commercial area  90 dB(A)  80 dB(A)
Industrial area  100 dB(A) 90 dB(A)
 
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
§ 31-74 INTERMITTENT NOISE LEVELS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate, cause or permit to be operated any source
of intermittent noise within the City which exceeds the maximum permissible
sound levels established herein, when measured at or within the real property
boundary line of the receiving land use.
   (b)   Maximum permissible sound levels. Maximum permissible sound levels for
receiving land uses are hereby established as follows:
 
Land Use         Daytime  Nighttime
Residential area 70 dB(A) 60 dB(A)
Commercial area  75 dB(A) 65 dB(A)
Industrial area  80 dB(A) 55 dB(A)
 
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
§ 31-75 CONTINUOUS NOISE LEVELS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate, cause or permit to be operated any source
of continuous noise within the City which exceeds the maximum permissible sound
levels established herein, when measured at or within the real property line of
the receiving land use.
   (b)   Maximum permissible sound levels. Maximum permissible sound levels for
receiving land uses are hereby established as follows:
 
Land Use         Daytime  Nighttime
Residential area 60 dB(A) 50 dB(A)
Commercial area  65 dB(A) 60 dB(A)
Industrial area  70 dB(A) 65 dB(A)
 
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
§ 31-76 PERPETUAL NOISE LEVELS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Prohibition. Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate, cause or permit to be operated any source
of perpetual noise within the City which exceeds the maximum permissible sound
levels established herein when measured at or within the real property boundary
line of the receiving land use.
   (b)   Maximum permissible sound levels. Maximum permissible sound levels for
receiving land uses are hereby established as follows:
 
Land Use         Daytime  Nighttime
Residential area 50 dB(A) 45 dB(A)
Commercial area  55 dB(A) 50 dB(A)
Industrial area  60 dB(A) 55 dB(A)
 
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
§ 31-77 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following:
   (a)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency.
   (b)   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
   (c)   Warning devices necessary for public safety such as police, fire and
ambulance sirens and horns.
   (d)   Motor vehicles and equipment for which noise levels are regulated by
Act 73 of the Public Acts of 1978, as amended, and/or the City of Flint Motor
Vehicle or Traffic Code.
   (e)   Aircraft and trains.
   (f)   The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building:
      (1)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on weekdays; or
      (2)   At any other time if a permit for same has been secured from the
Department of Building and Safety Inspection. Such permit may be issued if the
Department of Building and Safety Inspection finds the following facts to
exist:
         a.   Issuance of the permit is in the interest of public health or
safety; or
         b.   The public health and safety will not be impaired; or
         c.   The permit is necessary to avoid substantial loss or
inconvenience to an interested party.
   (g)   The operation of domestic tools such as lawn mowers, snowblowers,
edgers and the like, when such tools are operated in a manner and frequency
that is normal and customary in the community.
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Noise limitations; prohibitions, see MCLA 257.707c
§ 31-78 PENALTY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   A person who shall violate any provision of this article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than$1,500.00 or by
imprisonment of not more than ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (b)   A person served with an appearance ticket for a violation of this
article may waive his or her rights to an arraignment on such charge and
voluntarily enter a plea of guilty thereto and pay a fine of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) at the office of the District Court Clerk, but only if said
person has never before been convicted of any violation of this article.
   (c)   A citizen will not be required to sign a complaint for a violation of
this ordinance if such complaint can be validly signed by the enforcing
officer.
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
§ 31-79 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this article is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise
invalid by any Court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of
this ordinance shall not be invalidated.
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
ARTICLE III. BLIGHT VIOLATIONS
§ 31-80 CREATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BUREAU.
   Pursuant to MCLA § 117.4q, the City of Flint hereby establishes an
Administrative Hearings Bureau to adjudicate and impose sanctions for blight
violations.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010)
§ 31-81 BLIGHT VIOLATION.
   (a)   For purposes of this article, BLIGHT VIOLATION means a violation of
the following Flint City Code sections: §§
30-3,
30-7,
30-8,
30-9,
30-11,
30-12,
30-13,
30-15,
30-30.1,
39-1,
39-5,
39-7,
39-9,
39-10,
39-32,
39-43 and 39-43.1.
   (b)   BLIGHT VIOLATION also means a violation of Flint City Code §§
11-1 and
24-1 if the violation relates to the condition of the exterior of a building or
property maintenance.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010)
§ 31-82 HEARING OFFICER.
   (a)   A Hearing Officer shall preside over contested blight violation
hearings. The Hearing Officer shall play no role in enforcement activities.
   (b)   The Hearing Officer shall be a licensed attorney and otherwise meet
all the qualifications as set forth in MCLA § 117.4q(11).
   (c)   The Hearing Officer will be appointed in a manner that is consistent
with the Charter for the appointment of municipal officers or employees and
shall only be removed for reasonable cause.
   (d)   The Hearing Officer shall have the following authority and duties:
      (1)   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the blight violation.
      (2)   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon request of a party or a party’s attorney.
      (3)   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing.
      (4)   Issuing a determination, based upon the evidence presented at the
hearing, whether a blight violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall include written findings of fact, a decision and an order.
The City shall have the burden of establishing the responsibility of the
alleged violator by a preponderance of the evidence. Unless the burden is met,
the matter shall be dismissed. A decision and an order shall not be made except
upon consideration of the record as a whole or a portion of the record as may
be cited by any party to the proceeding and as supported by and in accordance
with the competent, material, and substantial evidence. A decision and order
finding the alleged violator responsible for the violation shall include the
civil fine, if any, or any action with which the violator must comply, or both.
      (5)   Imposing reasonable and proportionate sanctions consistent with
applicable ordinance provisions and assessing costs upon a finding that the
alleged violator is responsible for the alleged violation.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010)
§ 31-83 INITIATION OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (a)   To initiate a proceeding for a blight violation, the City shall issue
and serve upon an alleged violator a written violation notice on which an
authorized local official records the occurrence or existence of 1 or more
blight violations by the person cited and which directs the named person to pay
a civil fine for the violation or appear at the Administrative Hearings Bureau
as provided in this section. A violation notice to appear at an Administrative
Hearings Bureau shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the notice occurred in the presence of the authorized local official signing
the violation notice and if the notice contains the following statement
immediately above the date and signature of the official: “I declare under the
penalties of perjury that the statements above are true to the best of my
information, knowledge, and belief”. An authorized local official may issue a
violation notice to appear if, based upon the investigation, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for a blight
violation and if the Chief Legal Officer or an Assistant City Attorney approves
in writing the issuance of the violation notice.
   (b)   Any person authorized to issue a blight violation is also authorized
to order the towing of abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010; Ord. 3790, passed 2-14-2011)
§ 31-84 RESPONSE TO VIOLATION NOTICE.
   The person named in the violation notice shall appear on or before the time
specified in the violation notice and may respond to the allegations in the
notice, as follows.
   (a)   If the alleged violator wishes to admit responsibility for the blight
violation, the person may do so by appearing in person, by representation, or
by mail. If appearance is made by representation or mail, the Administrative
Hearings Bureau may accept the admission as though the person personally
appeared. Upon acceptance of the admission, a Hearing Officer may order any of
the sanctions permitted under this section.
   (b)   If the alleged violator wishes to deny responsibility for the blight
violation, or admit responsibility with an explanation, the person may do so by
appearing in person on the date scheduled for the administrative hearing for
the purpose of adjudicating the alleged violation.
   (c)   If the alleged violator fails to appear, a decision and order of
default may be entered.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010)
§ 31-85 HEARINGS.
   (a)   A party shall be provided with the opportunity for a hearing during
which they may be represented by counsel, present witnesses, and cross-examine
witnesses. A party may request the Hearing Officer to issue subpoenas to direct
the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of
relevant documents. Hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness,
except that for hearings scheduled in all nonemergency situations the alleged
violator, if he or she requests, shall have at least 14 days after service of
process to prepare for the hearing. For purposes of this subsection,
NONEMERGENCY SITUATION means any situation that does not reasonably constitute
a threat to the public interest, safety, or welfare. If service is provided by
first class mail, the 14-day period begins to run on the day that the notice is
deposited in the mail.
   (b)   In an administrative hearing under this section, the rules of evidence
as applied in a nonjury civil case in Circuit Court shall be followed as far as
practicable, but the Hearing Officer may admit and give probative effect to
evidence of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the
conduct of their affairs. Irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious
evidence may be excluded. Effect shall be given to the rules of privilege
recognized by law. Objections to offers of evidence may be made and shall be
noted in the record. Subject to these requirements, the Hearing Officer, for
the purpose of expediting hearings and when the interests of the parties will
not be substantially prejudiced thereby, may provide in an administrative
hearing or by rule for submission of all or part of the evidence in written
form.
   (c)   Any final decision by a Hearing Officer that a blight violation does
or does not exist constitutes a final decision and order for purposes of
judicial review and may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by
a Court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010)
§ 31-86 PENALTIES.
   The penalty for a blight violation shall be a civil fine of up to $500.00.
The Hearing Officer may also order action with which the violator must comply.
However, the Hearing Officer may waive a fine for a blight violation at an
owner-occupied dwelling for a first-time offender if the offender has corrected
the circumstances for the violation. But in all cases the Hearing Officer shall
impose a judicial system assessment of $10.00 for each blight violation
determination. Upon payment of the assessment, the City shall transmit the
assessment to the State Treasury.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010)
§ 31-87 DEFAULT JUDGMENTS.
   An alleged violator may seek to set aside the entry of a decision and order
of default within 14 days after the Bureau sends notice of the decision and
order to the violator. The request must be written, must explain the reason for
the nonappearance of the violator, and must state a defense to or an
explanation of the alleged violation. For good cause, the Bureau may set aside
the default and direct that a hearing on the violation take place.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010)
§ 31-88 APPEAL.
   (a)   A party may file an appeal within 28 days after entry of the decision
and order by the Hearing Officer. An appeal of a final decision and order of an
Administrative Hearing Officer is to the Circuit Court.
   (b)   An alleged violator who appeals a final decision and order to Circuit
Court shall post with the Administrative Hearings Bureau, at the time the
appeal is taken, a bond equal to the fine and costs imposed. A party who has
paid the fine and costs is not required to post a bond. If a party who has
posted a bond fails to comply with the requirements of Supreme Court rules for
an appeal to the Circuit Court, the appeal may be considered abandoned, and the
Bureau may dismiss the appeal on seven days’ notice to the parties. The
Administrative Hearings Bureau must promptly notify the Circuit Court of a
dismissal, and the Circuit Court shall dismiss the claim of appeal. If the
appeal is dismissed or the decision and order are affirmed, the Administrative
Hearings Bureau may apply the bond to the fine and costs. An appeal by the City
must be asserted by the City’s Attorney and a bond is not required.
   (c)   An appeal to Circuit Court shall be a review by the Court of the
certified record provided by the Administrative Hearings Bureau. Pending
appeal, and subject to the bond requirement, the Hearing Officer may stay the
order and any sanctions or costs imposed. Once an appeal is filed, and subject
to the bond requirement, the Court may stay the order and any sanctions or
costs imposed. The Court, as appropriate, may affirm, reverse, or modify the
decision or order, or remand the matter for further proceedings. The Court
shall hold unlawful and set aside a decision or order of the Hearing Officer if
substantial rights of an alleged violator have been prejudiced because the
decision or order is any of the following:
      (1)   In violation of the Constitution or a statute, Charter, or
ordinance.
      (2)   In excess of the authority or jurisdiction of the agency as
conferred by statute, Charter, or ordinance.
      (3)   Made upon unlawful procedure resulting in material prejudice to a
party.
      (4)   Not supported by competent, material, and substantial evidence on
the whole record.
      (5)   Arbitrary, capricious, or clearly an abuse or unwarranted exercise
of discretion.
      (6)   Affected by other substantial and material error of law.
(Ord. 3772, passed 6-28-2010)
APPENDIX: MAXIMUM LEVELS IN dB(A)s
 
            Impulsive    Intermittent      Continuous Noise
Receiving   Noise        Noise             (5 mins.-30       Perpetual Noise
Land Use    (0-10 secs.) (10 secs.-        mins.)            (over 30 mins.)
                         5 mins.)
            Day    Night Day      Night    Day      Night    Day      Night
Residential 80 dB  70 dB 70 dB(A) 60 dB(A) 60 dB(A) 50 dB(A) 50 dB(A) 45 dB(A)
            (A)    (A)
Commercial  90 dB  80 dB 75 dB(A) 65 dB(A) 65 dB(A) 60 dB(A) 55 dB(A) 50 dB(A)
            (A)    (A)
Industrial  100 dB 90 dB 80 dB(A) 75 dB(A) 70 dB(A) 65 dB(A) 60 dB(A) 55 dB(A)
            (A)    (A)
 
   Act 73 of the Public Acts of 1978, referred to in §
31-77, establishes the following levels for motor vehicles:
 
Vehicle Size
Speed Limit 8,500 lbs. or More Motorcycles or Mopeds All Others
35 mph      86 dB(A)           82 dB(A)              76 dB(A)
Over 35 mph 90 dB(A)           86 dB(A)              82 dB(A)
 
Noise Around Our Homes
Noise Source Sound Level for Operator (in dB(A))
Noise Source            Sound Level for Operator (in dB(A))
Refrigerator            40
Floor fan               38 to 70
Clothes dryer           55
Washing machine         47 to 78
Dishwasher              54 to 85
Hair dryer              59 to 80
Vacuum cleaner          62 to 85
Sewing machine          64 to 74
Electric shaver         75
Food disposal (grinder) 67 to 93
Electric lawn edger     81
Home shop tools         85
Gasoline power mower    87 to 92
Gasoline riding mower   90 to 95
Chain saw               100
Stereo                  Up to 120
 
Intensity Levels and Human Speech-Hearing
dB
dB
140 Threshold of pain
130 Feeling of tickle
120 Average threshold of discomfort for pure tones
110 Loud shout at one-foot distance
100 Discomfort for speech begins around this level
90
80  Loud speech
70
60  Average speech conversational level
50
40  Faint speech at three-foot distance
30  Whisper (average)
20  Very quiet speech (faint)
10
0   Threshold of hearing (young adult)
 
(Ord. 2741, passed 10-22-1979)
CHAPTER 32: RESERVED
Editor’s note:
   The material formerly located in Article I of this chapter, Mid-City Parking
System, was repealed in the 1994 codification. The material formerly located in
Article II of this chapter, Open Parking Systems, has been moved to
Chapter 12.
CHAPTER 33: PARKS
Section
Article I. In General
   
33-1   Placing building or obstruction on public park and the like
   
33-2   Removing or injuring posts, fences and the like
   
33-3   Defacing trees
   
33-4   Picking or breaking flowers, plants and the like
   
33-5   Removing of turf and the like
   
33-6   Placing rubbish or filth in public parks and the like
   
33-7   Posting notices, signs and the like; exception
   
33-8   Wading or throwing stones in pools, fountains and the like
   
33-8.1   Vandalism; reimbursement for damage; responsibility for minors
   
33-9   Use of parks for sports and hobbies
   
33-10   Hawking or peddling goods without permit
   
33-11   Indecent exposure, disorderly conduct and the like
   
33-12   Walking, riding, taking dog and the like where sign forbids the same
   
33-13   Playing musical instrument, displaying flag and the like
   
33-14   Discharging firearms, building fires and the like
   
33-15   Operation of vehicles
   
33-15.1   Roller skates, skateboards and the like in Riverbank Park
   
33-16   Practicing or playing golf
   
33-16.1   Hours; exceptions
   
33-17   Dort Memorial Park System
   
33-18   Division of Park System
Article II. Thread Lake Lagoon
   
33-19   Established
   
33-20   Fishing permitted
   
33-21   Same — by persons 15 and over; exception
   
33-22   Same — uses of nets or set hook lines; ice fishing
   
33-23   Control and supervision; adoption of rules and regulations
   
33-24   Throwing or placing certain items in lagoon
   33-25 – 33-32   Reserved
Article III. Flint River
   
33-33   Fishing
   
33-34   Swimming or wading prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol, possession and consumption in parks,see §
6-6
   Department of Parks and Recreation, see §§
2-90 –
2-98
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 33-1 PLACING BUILDING OR OBSTRUCTION ON PUBLIC PARK AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall place any building or obstruction of any kind on any public
park, public ground, boulevard or parkway within the city.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-2 REMOVING OR INJURING POSTS, FENCES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall take down, climb over, interfere with, disturb, displace,
mar, deface or injure any rails, posts, chains or fences enclosing any public
ground or park, or within the limits of any public boulevard within the city.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-3 DEFACING TREES.
   No person shall climb, peel, cut, deface, remove, injure or destroy any tree
in any public park or ground or on any boulevard within the city.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-4 PICKING OR BREAKING FLOWERS, PLANTS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall pluck, break, trample or interfere with any flower, plant or
shrub in any public park, ground or boulevard.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-5 REMOVING OF TURF AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall take, remove or carry away any sward, gravel, sand, turf or
earth in any public park, ground or boulevard.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-6 PLACING RUBBISH OR FILTH IN PUBLIC PARKS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall place or deposit any dead carcass, filth, dirt, stone or
other matter or substance on any public park, ground or boulevard.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-7 POSTING NOTICES, SIGNS AND THE LIKE; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall hang, post, place or put any bill, notice, sign, placard,
carpet or other encumbrance on any tree, fountain, post, railing, fence or
other erection in or surrounding any public ground or boulevard. This section
shall not prohibit the posting of advertisements on public grounds designated
as municipal golf courses, provided that prior approval is obtained in writing
from the Department of Parks and Recreation and the sign conforms to all
standards and regulations promulgated by the Department of Parks and
Recreation.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908; Ord. 3506, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 33-8 WADING OR THROWING STONES IN POOLS, FOUNTAINS AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   No person shall throw any wood, sand, stone, thing or substance into
any basin, pool or fountain in any public park, ground or boulevard.
   (b)   No person shall swim in any basin, pool or fountain in any public
park, ground or boulevard, except:
      (1)   In a swimming pool; or
      (2)   Where the Director of the Department of Parks and Recreation has
posted signs allowing swimming.
   (c)   No person shall wade in any basin, pool or fountain in any public
park, ground or boulevard except:
      (1)   In a swimming pool; or
      (2)   Where the Director of the Department of Parks and Recreation has
posted signs allowing wading.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908; Ord. 2783, passed 10-27-1980)
§ 33-8.1 VANDALISM; REIMBURSEMENT FOR DAMAGE; RESPONSIBILITY FOR MINORS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, damage, deface,
remove, injure or in any other manner vandalize any property owned by or under
the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation of the City of
Flint.
   (b)   Any person convicted of vandalism of any property owned by or under
the jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation shall reimburse the
City of Flint for up to three times the amount of damages as determined by the
court and as provided for in Public Act 280 of 1969, as amended, being MCLA §
318.251 and MSA § 13.1064(1).
   (c)   The parents, guardians or other persons having control of any minor
child shall be held liable for the violation of any of the provisions of this
section by the minor child.
(Ord. 2813, passed 10-26-1981)
§ 33-9 USE OF PARKS FOR SPORTS AND HOBBIES.
   No person shall play at any game or sport in any enclosed public park,
ground or on any boulevard except as authorized in specific areas by the
Director of Parks and Recreation. The Director of Parks and Recreation may
designate specific park areas and the like for the sole use of certain hobbies
or sports.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908; Ord. 2783, passed 10-27-1980)
§ 33-10 HAWKING OR PEDDLING GOODS WITHOUT PERMIT.
   No person shall hawk or peddle any goods or articles of any nature or
description within any of the public parks, grounds or boulevards without first
obtaining a permit so to do from the Recreation and Park Board.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-11 INDECENT EXPOSURE, DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND THE LIKE.
   No indecent exposure of person, disorderly conduct, noise, riot or breach of
the peace nor the use of obscene language shall be permitted in any public
park, ground or boulevard.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-12 WALKING, RIDING, TAKING DOG AND THE LIKE WHERE SIGN FORBIDS THE SAME.
   (a)   No person shall stand, walk, ride or lie upon any place laid out and
appropriated for shrubbery or grass when the Department of Parks and Recreation
has placed thereon a sign forbidding the same in any public park, ground or
boulevard.
   (b)   No person shall take any dog into any public park, ground or
boulevard, when the Department of Parks and Recreation has placed thereon a
sign forbidding the same.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908; Ord. 2783, passed 10-27-1980; Ord. 2844, passed 7-
26-1982)
§ 33-13 PLAYING MUSICAL INSTRUMENT, DISPLAYING FLAG AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall play upon any musical instrument, except by authority of the
Department of Parks and Recreation, nor carry or display any flag, target or
transparency. No person shall do or perform any act tending to congregate
persons in any public park, ground or boulevard.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908; Ord. 2783, passed 10-27-1980)
§ 33-14 DISCHARGING FIREARMS, BUILDING FIRES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall fire or discharge any gun or pistol, carry firearms, kindle
or build fires or throw stones or other missiles within any public park, ground
or boulevard.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908)
§ 33-15 OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate any automobile or other means of conveyance, upon
any public park or golf course in the City; provided, that bicycles and other
means of conveyance authorized by the Department of Parks and Recreation shall
operate only in areas duly designated by the Department and at a speed and in a
manner prescribed by the Department. The authorization contemplated herein
shall be by official action of the Director of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908; Ord. 1929, passed 8-22-1966; Ord. 1933, passed 9-
12-1966; Ord. 2783, passed 10-27-1980)
§ 33-15.1 ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE IN RIVERBANK PARK.
   (a)   Roller skates, skateboards or other similar devices are prohibited in
Riverbank Park except as a scheduled event by the Department of Parks and
Recreation or the Downtown Development Authority.
   (b)   Violations of this section shall be a civil infraction punishable by a
fine of not more than $35.00.
(Ord. 2999, passed 7-14-1986; Ord. 3005, passed 7-28-1986)
§ 33-16 PRACTICING OR PLAYING GOLF.
   No person shall play or practice the game of golf in or upon any public
park, ground or boulevard; provided, that nothing contained herein shall
prohibit the playing of golf at established golf courses; provided further,
that all practicing of golf on an established golf course shall be confined to
those areas designated by the Department of Parks and Recreation as practice
areas.
(Ord. 109, passed 6-16-1908; Ord. 1848, passed 6-28-1965; Ord. 2783, passed 10-
27-1980)
§ 33-16.1 HOURS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person or persons shall enter into or remain in any public park or ground
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except those persons attending
an activity supervised by or being conducted under a permit issued by the
Director of the Department of Parks and Recreation or the Flint Board of
Education. Any permit issued by the Director of the Department of Parks and
Recreation or the Flint Board of Education shall specify the time at which the
activity shall terminate; provided, however, that for those facilities designed
for specific activities which are illuminated by special lighting equipment,
the hours during which any person or persons shall be prohibited from being on
the premises shall begin when the illumination ceases and continue until 6:00
a.m.; provided, further, that nothing herein, shall be construed as limiting
the hours of use of Riverbank Park and that the park shall be open at all
times.
(Ord. 2452, passed 8-12-1974; Ord. 2783, passed 10-27-1980)
§ 33-17 DORT MEMORIAL PARK SYSTEM.
   The park system, consisting of the various parkways and parks owned by the
City, shall be hereafter known as the Dort Memorial Park System.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938)
§ 33-18 DIVISION OF PARK SYSTEM.
   The Dort Memorial Park System of the City shall be divided into four
parkways, to be hereafter known as Washington Parkway, McKinley Parkway,
Lincoln Parkway and Grant Parkway, and Central Parks which shall consist of
isolated parks not embraced by the four parkways above named.
(Ord. 235, passed 4-25-1938)
ARTICLE II. THREAD LAKE LAGOON
§ 33-19 ESTABLISHED.
   The body of water lying in the northwest park of Thread Lake Park, being
within the west half of the west half of Section 20, T7N, R7E, City of Flint,
County of Genesee, State of Michigan, is established and designated as Thread
Lake Lagoon.
(Ord. 916, passed 5-22-1950)
§ 33-20 FISHING PERMITTED.
   Fishing shall be allowed in Thread Lake Lagoon, subject to the provisions of
this article.
(Ord. 916, passed 5-22-1950)
§ 33-21 SAME — BY PERSONS 15 AND OVER; EXCEPTION.
   No person of the age of 15 or more years shall fish or otherwise catch, kill
or remove fish from Thread Lake Lagoon; provided, that any person of the age of
15 or more years may instruct or teach persons of that age the art and manner
of fishing, which instruction may include demonstration of acts of fishing by
the person so instructing, and only by permission of Recreation and Park Board
officials.
(Ord. 916, passed 5-22-1950)
§ 33-22 SAME — USES OF NETS OR SET HOOK LINES; ICE FISHING.
   No person shall use or set any kind of net or set hook lines or attempt to
take any kind of fish with a net or set hook lines or use spears, nor shall any
person fish through the ice, otherwise known as “ice fishing” in Thread Lake
Lagoon.
(Ord. 916, passed 5-22-1950)
§ 33-23 CONTROL AND SUPERVISION; ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Thread Lake Lagoon shall be under the control and jurisdiction of the
Recreation and Park Board of the City. The Recreation and Park Board may adopt
such reasonable rules and regulations, pertaining to the maintenance of, use of
and fishing in Thread Lake Lagoon and adjacent premises, as it deems necessary
to effect the objects and purposes of this article.
(Ord. 916, passed 5-22-1950)
§ 33-24 THROWING OR PLACING CERTAIN ITEMS IN LAGOON.
   No person shall place, throw, empty, or permit to be placed, thrown or
emptied into Thread Lake Lagoon any dead carcass or any unwholesome, unhealthy
or obnoxious animal, vegetable or mineral matter or any oil, coal tar or
sawdust, or any other substance of an unwholesome, unhealthy or obnoxious
nature.
(Ord. 916, passed 5-22-1950)
§§ 33-25 – 33-32 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. FLINT RIVER
§ 33-33 FISHING.
   (a)   Fishing shall be allowed in the Flint River, except as provided
otherwise herein, subject to the rules and regulations and laws of the State of
Michigan.
   (b)   Fishing shall be prohibited at all times from the north and south
banks of the Flint River between Beach Street and Saginaw Street.
   (c)   Bowhunting and/or spearing of fish shall be prohibited at all times
from the north and south banks of the Flint River between the Hamilton Avenue
Dam and the Grand Traverse Street Bridge.
   (d)   No fish shall be cleaned within 300 feet of the edge of the water
along the north and south banks of the Flint River between the Hamilton Avenue
Dam and the Grand Traverse Street Bridge.
   (e)   No fishing shall be allowed along the north and south banks of the
Flint River between Harrison Street and Beach Street during any performance or
activity in the amphitheater area located south of the Flint River and west of
Saginaw Street.
(Ord. 2784, passed 12-8-1980)
§ 33-34 SWIMMING OR WADING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall wade or swim in the Flint River within the corporate limits
of the City.
(Ord. 2843, passed 7-26-1982)
CHAPTER 34: RESERVED
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL *
Section
Article I. City of Flint Defined Contribution Pension Plan
   
35-1   Establishment of City of Flint Defined Contribution Pension Plan
   35-2 – 35-5   Reserved
Article II. Retirement System
   
35-6   Definitions
   
35-7   Established
   
35-8   Administration of system; Board of Trustees; composition
   
35-9   Trustees’ term of office; oath of office
   
35-10   Board vacancy; how filled
   
35-11   Meetings of Board; records; compensation
   
35-12   Quorum of Board; vote
   
35-13   Officers and employees of Board
   
35-14   Annual report of Board; adoption of experience tables; data to be kept
by Secretary
   
35-15   Membership of system
   
35-15.1   Election to terminate participation in the City of Flint employees
retirement system and to participate in the City of Flint Defined Contribution
Pension Plan; irrevocability
   
35-16   Former plan police officers and firefighters
   
35-16.1   Increase in benefits for Charter plan firefighters
   
35-16.1.1   Increase in benefits for Charter retirees
   
35-16.2   Increase in benefits for persons retired pursuant to former City
Charter
   
35-16.2.1   Blue Cross/Blue Shield coverage for eligible surviving spouses of
Charter pension retirees
   
35-16.3   Increase in service pensions
   
35-16.4   Additional annual payment; determination and distribution thereof;
eligible retirants
   
35-16.5   Contingent benefit payment for eligible Charter plan retirees
   
35-17   Termination of membership; reinstatement
   
35-18   Service credit
   
35-18.1   Credit for certain prior City service (CETA)
   
35-19   Credit for time in armed services
   
35-19.1   Emergency reemployment
   
35-20   Creating member’s service account
   
35-21   Voluntary retirement
   
35-22   Mandatory retirement — general member; firefighter
   
35-22.1   Mandatory retirement — police officer member
   
35-23   Age and service pension — general members
   
35-23.1   Age and service pension — “pop- up” options for certain general
members
   
35-23.2   Definitions
   
35-23.3   Plan participation
   
35-23.4   Alternative pension plan description
   
35-23.5   Hurley modified contributory plan
   
35-23.6   Termination and transfer of participation in the retirement system to
the Municipal Employees Retirement System of Michigan of certain Hurley Medical
Center participants
   
35-24   Age and service pension — firefighters
   
35-24.1   Age and service pension — police officers
   
35-25   Deferred pension
   
35-26   Pension options
   
35-26.1   Actuarial equivalencies
   
35-27   Retirement for total and permanent disability
   
35-28   Disability pension — general member
   
35-29   Disability pension — police officers and firefighters
   
35-30   Examination of disability retirants; restoration of disability retirant
to service
   
35-31   Ordinary death pension — general members, police officers
   
35-31.1   Ordinary death pension — firefighters
   
35-32   Death in the line of duty — general members, police officers
   
35-32.1   Death in the line of duty — firefighters
   
35-33   Offset of workers’ compensation benefits against pensions
   
35-34   Refunds of accumulated contributions
   
35-34.1   Eligible rollover distributions
   
35-35   Employee savings fund
   
35-36   Retirement reserve fund
   
35-37   Pension reserve fund
   
35-38   Expense fund
   
35-39   Management of funds of system
   
35-40   Allowance of regular interest
   
35-41   Assignments prohibited; exceptions
   
35-42   Correction of errors in records
   
35-43   Subpoena attempt
   
35-44   Hearings; findings; review of Board actions
   
35-45   Waiver of privilege
   
35-46   Internal Revenue Code qualifications
   
35-46.1   Termination of retirement system
   
35-46.2   Benefit limitations
   
35-46.3   Diversion of assets prohibited
   
35-46.4   Commencement and payment of pensions
   
35-46.5   Uniformed service requirements
Article III. Residency Requirements
   
35-47   Residency within City required
   
35-48   “Residence” defined
   
35-49   Enforcement; development of criteria for determining domicile
   
35-50   Waiver of residency requirements
   
35-51   Requests for waivers
   
35-52   Residency requirements for levels 23 and above
   
35-53   Residency requirements for levels 22E and below
   35-54 – 35-61   Reserved
Article IV. Uniform Pay Plan
   
35-62   Applicability of classifications of Personnel Director
   
35-63   Compensation plan; payment schedule; contracts with bargaining units
   
35-64   Compensation schedules
   
35-65   Reserved
   
35-66   Part-time employees
   
35-67   Appointive officers’ salaries
   
35-68   Unclassified Service pay rates; employment contracts for Ombudsman’s
appointees
   
35-69   School crossing guards
   
35-70   Credit towards step advancements
   
35-71   Normal workweek
   
35-72   Overtime generally
   
35-72.1   Emergency call-in pay
   
35-73   Appointive officials — fringe benefits and working conditions
   
35-74   Night bonus
   
35-75   Employees exempt from overtime provisions
   
35-76   Overtime, holiday rates and night bonuses not to be paid for same work
   
35-77   On-call or stand-by employees
   
35-78   Reserved
   
35-79   Changes in compensation caused by reclassification or reallocation
   
35-80   Indemnification of officials, appointees and employees
   
35-81   Insurance
   
35-82   Armed service credit
   
35-83   Same — probationary employee
   
35-84   Reserved
Article V. Working Conditions
   
35-85   Definitions
   
35-86   Purpose
   
35-87   Annual leave
   
35-88   Sick leave
   
35-88.1   Workers’ compensation supplemental benefits
   
35-88.A.1   Sick leave for unrepresented classified employees
   
35-88.A.2   Same — extended sick leave without pay
   
35-88.A.3   Same — return from sick leave
   
35-89   Holidays
   
35-90   Tuition reimbursement
   
35-91   Military leave
   
35-92   Jury duty
   
35-93   Bereavement leave
   
35-94   Suspension of nonessential services
   
35-95   Crediting of annual leave accumulations while in armed service
   
35-96   Accumulation of sick leave while in armed services
   
35-97   Employees not to receive compensation for time not expended in City
service
   
35-98   Conversion of annual salary to hourly rate; employees employed in dual
classifications
   
35-99   Reserved
   
35-100   Benefits not available to part-time, temporary interim or contractual
employees; exception as to annual leave
   
35-101   Civil Service Commission — created; composition
   
35-102   Same — selection members
   
35-103   Same — qualifications of candidates
   
35-104   Same — submission of nominating petition by candidate
   
35-105   Same — election of member by Board of Hospital Managers employees
   
35-106   Same — powers, duties and terms
   
35-107   Same — election; run-off
   
35-108   Same — form of subpoena by Civil Service Commission
   
35-109   Same — refusal to comply with subpoena
   
35-110   Conditions under which person having a family relationship to
department or division head may be employed
   
35-111   Criminal history background checks of all employees and volunteers
representing the City of Flint at the Berston Field House, Brennan Community
Center, Haskell Community Center, Hasselbring Senior Center and Pierce
Community Center
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see
Ch. 2
   Civil service, see Chart. Sections
5-101 –
5-402
   Pensions, authority to provide, see Chart. Section
1-503
ARTICLE I. CITY OF FLINT DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLAN
§ 35-1 ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY OF FLINT DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLAN.
   The City of Flint Employees Defined Contribution Pension Plan is created by
this article. The terms and conditions are described in the ICMA plan
documents. These documents are on file with the City Clerk and adopted by
resolution of the Flint City Council.
   (a)   Effective date. The effective date of this article and the City of
Flint Defined Contribution Pension Plan shall be September 1, 2002.
   (b)   Implementation date. The implementation date of the City of Flint
Defined Contribution Pension Plan shall be established by resolution.
   (c)   Plan year. The first plan year for the City of Flint Defined
Contribution Pension Plan shall be the partial year commencing the effective
date and ending on December 31, 2002. Thereafter, the plan year shall be the
calendar year.
   (d)   Eligible employees. Employees eligible to participate in the City of
Flint Defined Contribution Pension Plan shall be all employees of the City
hired after the implementation date who are not members of a recognized
bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, as long as
the employees are not employed in a position that is part-time, seasonal,
temporary, provisional or school crossing guards. This definition includes
persons employed as members of the City Council, Judges of the 68th Judicial
District, the City Administrator, appointees of the City Council, appointees of
the Ombudsman, and appointees serving at the pleasure of the Mayor, provided
that, as to Judges of the 68th Judicial District, compensation shall be limited
to the portion of annual compensation paid by the City.
   (e)   Eligibility conditions. An eligible employee who was hired by the City
prior to the implementation date shall have an opportunity to elect irrevocably
to terminate his or her membership in the employees retirement system, commence
participation in the City of Flint Defined Contribution Pension Plan and
transfer the actuarial present value of his or her accrued benefit under the
employees retirement system to an individual account to be administered on his
or her behalf in the City of Flint Defined Contribution Pension Plan. Any
eligible employee whose employment with the City commences on or after the
implementation date shall become a participant in the City of Flint Defined
Contribution Pension Plan on his or her employment commencement date. An
employee of the City who transfers employment into the class of eligible
employees after the implementation date shall have a 30-day period commencing
on the date of his or her transfer into the class of eligible employees to make
the elections described in the first sentence of this subsection.
   (f)   Vesting. A participant’s employee contribution account, including
interest in the account balance, if any, derived from assets transferred on his
or her behalf from the employees retirement system, shall be fully vested and
non-forfeitable at all times.
   (g)   Limitations on allocations of contributions. In the event that a
participant participates in more than one qualified pension plan, the
participant’s contributions under this plan shall be reduced, if necessary, to
satisfy the limitations of Section 415 of the Code.
   (h)   Appointment of plan administrator. By resolution of its Council the
City shall designate a plan administrator for the City of Flint Defined
Contribution Pension Plan, which designation can be altered or amended from
time to time.
   (i)   Receipt of assets transferred from employees retirement system. The
City of Flint Defined Contribution Pension Plan shall accept transfers of the
actuarial present value of an electing eligible employee’s accrued benefit
under the employees retirement system and shall credit those assets to the
individual account maintained for the eligible employee under the City of Flint
Defined Contribution Pension Plan.
(Ord. 3496, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3498, passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 3583, passed 6-
24-2004)
§§ 35-2 – 35-5 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. RETIREMENT SYSTEM
§ 35-6 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases as used in this article, unless a different
meaning is clearly required by the context, shall have the following meanings.
The masculine gender shall include the feminine gender; the words of the
singular shall include the plural number and vice versa.
   ACCUMULATED CONTRIBUTIONS. The sum of all amounts deducted from the
compensation of a member and credited to his or her individual account in the
employee savings fund together with regular interest thereon.
   ANNUAL RATE OF COMPENSATION. A member’s salary or wages earned and received
annually over the course of 26 pay periods. Annual compensation shall not
include income received during the 26 pay periods which was not also earned
during the 26 pay periods. Annual compensation shall be consistent with the
compensation schedules established by the City Council which are on file in the
City Clerk’s Office.
   APPOINTMENT. In the case of elective officials means the date of taking
office as a result of either appointment or vote of the people.
   BENEFICIARY. Any person, except a retirant, who is in receipt of or has
entitlement to, a pension or other benefit payable by the retirement system.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or BOARD. The Board of Trustees provided in the retirement
plan.
   CITY. The municipal government of the City of Flint, including the
Recreation and Park Board as it existed prior to the effective date of the
Charter adopted by the electors in November 1974, and the Board of Hospital
Managers.
   CITY COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The City Council of the City of Flint.
   COMPENSATION.
      (1)   A member’s salary or wages paid by the City for personal services
rendered by him or her to the City, and including workers’ compensation paid in
accordance with State law and supplemental pay which may have been paid in
accordance with contracts in existence between the City and recognized
bargaining units and ordinances of the City.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the
compensation of a member of the retirement system shall be taken into account
for any year under the retirement system only to the extent that it does not
exceed the compensation limit established in Section 401(a)(17) of the Internal
Revenue Code, as adjusted by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue.
   CREDITED SERVICE. The number of years and months of service standing to a
member’s credit in his or her service account.
   FINAL AVERAGE COMPENSATION. 
      (1)   Except as herein otherwise provided, means the average of the
highest annual compensation paid a member during any period of five years of
his or her credited service contained within his or her ten years of credited
service immediately preceding the date his or her employment with the City last
terminates. In the event he or she has less than five years of credited
service, his or her final average compensation shall be the average of his or
her annual compensation for his or her total years of credited service.
      (2)   In the case of persons elected to the City Council, District Judges
of the 68th Judicial District, the City Administrator, appointees of the City
Council, appointees of the Mayor provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint, general members not represented by
recognized bargaining units not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers,
general members represented by Local 1799, American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, firefighter members and police officer
members, effective July 1, 1976 as to general members represented by Local
1600, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO,
and effective July 1, 1977, as to general members represented by Local 1918,
Chapter B-1, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-
CIO, shall mean the average of the highest annual compensation paid the members
by the City of Flint during any period of three years of their credited service
contained within their five years of credited service immediately preceding the
date of their employment with the City last terminates. Provided, however, for
firefighter members, police officer members, general members represented by
Locals 1600, 1799, Chapter B-1 of 1918, the City Administrator, appointees of
the City Council, appointees of the Mayor and general members not represented
by recognized bargaining units and not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers hired after January 1, 1978, payment of accumulated, unused sick leave
and/or annual leave shall not be used in computing “final average
compensation.”
      (3)   General members not represented by recognized bargaining units and
employed by the Board of Hospital Managers who are hired, promoted or
transferred into an exempt classification after March 1, 1989, shall not have
the payment of accumulated sick leave used in the computation of “final average
compensation.” No portion of payment upon retirement to classified employees
not represented by a collective bargaining agent in a collective bargaining
unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers who retire on or after
January 16, 1995 for accumulated sick leave between 60 days and 120 days shall
be included in the computation of final average compensation for any
unrepresented employee including those unrepresented employees who otherwise
receive final average compensation fold-in of sick and/or annual leave.
   FINAL COMPENSATION. A member’s annual rate of compensation at the time his
or her employment with the City last terminates.
   FIREFIGHTER MEMBER(S). An employee of the Division of Fire of the City,
holding the rank of firefighter, including probationary firefighter, or higher
rank and shall include civilian employees of the Division of Fire. The term
shall not include:
      (1)   Persons who are privately employed as firefighters;
      (2)   Persons who are temporarily employed as firefighters, during an
emergency; nor
      (3)   Former plan firefighters who did not elect to become members of the
retirement system.
   FORMER PLAN POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS. Persons who are eligible to
participate in the pension benefits provided by Sections 202 et seq. of the
City Charter or any amendment thereto.
   GENERAL MEMBER. Any member of the retirement system, except police officer
and firefighter members, and includes persons employed in the positions of
Assistant Chief of Police or Deputy Chief of Police.
   INSURABLE INTEREST. Any person who would suffer pecuniary loss upon the
death of the second person.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
   MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE. Except as herein otherwise provided, shall mean
65, and shall not apply to persons holding elective office, the City
Administrator, appointees of the City Council or appointees of the Mayor
provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
      (1)   “Mandatory retirement age for firefighter members” shall mean age
62.
      (2)   “Mandatory retirement age for police officer members” shall mean
the age at which the police officer member acquires 25 years of credited
service.
   MEMBER. Any person who is included in the membership of the retirement
system.
   PENSION RESERVE. The present value of all payments to be made on account of
any pension. The PENSION RESERVE shall be computed upon the basis of such
mortality and other tables of experience, as the Board of Trustees shall from
time to time adopt and regular interest.
   PENSION. An annual amount payable by the retirement system throughout the
future life of a person, or for a temporary period, as provided in the
retirement plan. All PENSIONS shall be paid in equal monthly installments.
   POLICE OFFICER MEMBER(S). An employee of the Division of Police of the City
of Flint holding the rank of patrol officer, including probationary patrol
officer or higher rank. The term shall not include:
      (1)   Persons employed in the positions of Assistant Chief of Police or
Deputy Chief of Police;
      (2)   Civilian employees of the Division of Police;
      (3)   Persons who are privately employed as police officers;
      (4)   Persons who are temporarily employed as police officers, during an
emergency; nor
      (5)   Former plan police officers who did not elect to become members of
the retirement system.
   REGULAR INTEREST. In the case of a refund of accumulated contributions to a
member by reason of his or her separation from service prior to his or her
retirement means 1% per annum, compounded annually, and for all other purposes
of the retirement system means 6% per annum, compounded annually, effective
January 1, 1975, 5% per annum, compounded annually, for the period of January
1, 1973 through December 31, 1974; 3.5% per annum, compounded annually, for the
period January 1, 1968 through December 31, 1972 and 3% per annum, compounded
annually, prior to December 31, 1967.
   RETIRANT or RETIREE. A member who retires with a pension payable by the
retirement system and shall include a “deferred” retirant.
   RETIREMENT. A member’s withdrawal from the employ of the City with a pension
payable by the retirement system.
   RETIREMENT PLAN or PLAN. Ordinance 625, adopted April 22, 1946 and effective
April 29, 1946, as amended, and as replaced by Ordinance 1860 and as it might
from time to time be amended.
   RETIREMENT SYSTEM or SYSTEM. The City of Flint Employees Retirement System.
   SERVICE. Personal service rendered to the City by an officer or employee of
the City.
   VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT AGE. Except as herein otherwise provided, shall mean
age 60.
      (1)   “Voluntary retirement age for persons elected to the City Council
and District Judges of the 68th Judicial District” means age 55 or the age at
which the members acquired 25 years of credited service.
      (2)   “Voluntary retirement age for firefighter members” shall mean the
age at which the firefighter member acquires 23 years of credited service or
attains age 55, whichever is first to occur.
      (3)   “Voluntary retirement age for police officer members” shall mean
the age at which the police officer member acquires 23 years of credited
service.
      (4)   “Voluntary retirement age for the City Administrator, appointees of
the City Council, appointees of the Mayor provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint, members represented by Locals 1600,
1799 and 1973, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME), AFL-CIO, and general members not represented by recognized bargaining
units are not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers” means age 60 or the
age at which the employee acquires 25 years of credited service.
      (5)   “Voluntary retirement age for general members not represented by
recognized bargaining units and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers,
and general members represented by Local 1603A, American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO” means age 60, age 55 if the
member has ten years or more of credited service, or the age at which the
member acquires 25 years of credited service.
      (6)   “Voluntary retirement age for members represented by the Public
Health Nurses Organization” means age 60 or age 55 years if the member has 25
years or more of credited service.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2013, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 2206, passed 4-
13-1970; Ord. 2277, passed 8-9-1971; Ord. 2314, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2354,
passed 8-21-1972; Ord. 2375, passed 10-18-1972; Ord. 2370, passed 12-11-1972;
Ord. 2403, passed 8-20-1973; Ord. 2432, passed 3-11-1974; Ord. 2446, passed 7-
1-1974; Ord. 2453, passed 8-19-1974; Ord. 2457, passed 10-7-1974; Ord. 2473,
passed 12-30-1974; Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 2519, passed 10-13-1975;
Ord. 2543, passed 2-2-1976; Ord. 2558, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 2583, passed 1-
17-1977; Ord. 2648, passed 6-26-1978; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 3088,
passed 2-13-1989; Ord. 3297, passed 5-22-1995; Ord. 3451, passed 3-27-2000;
Ord. 3584, passed 6-24-2004; Ord. 3643, passed 4-25-2005)
§ 35-7 ESTABLISHED.
   The City employees’ retirement system, hereinafter referred to as the
retirement system, is hereby established for the purpose of providing
retirement allowances and death benefits to persons holding elective office,
the City Administrator, appointees of the City Council or appointees of the
Mayor provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-8 ADMINISTRATION OF SYSTEM; BOARD OF TRUSTEES; COMPOSITION.
   (a)   The general administration, management and responsibility for the
proper operation of the retirement system, and for construing and making
effective provisions of the retirement plan shall be vested in a Board of
Trustees and all provisions hereinbefore and hereinafter provided for shall be
operative from and after July 1, 1965.
   (b)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of nine Trustees to be selected by
the City Council, as follows:
      (1)   A City Councilperson to be selected by the City Council, to serve
at the pleasure of the Council;
      (2)   City Administrator;
      (3)   Director of Finance;
      (4)   President and CEO of Hurley Medical Center or a designee selected
by him or her to serve in his or her place;
      (5)   A police officer or firefighter member to be elected by the police
officer and firefighter members;
      (6)   A presently employed general member who is not employed by the
Board of Hospital Managers to be elected by the general members who are not
employed by the Board;
      (7)   Two general members who are presently employed by the Board of
Hospital Managers to be elected by the general members who are employed by the
Board; and
      (8)   A member who has retired from the system, elected by retirants of
the system.
   (c)   (1)   The elections of Trustees provided in the above subsections (b)
(5), (6), (7) and (8) above shall be held under such rules and regulations as
the Board of Trustees shall from time to time adopt.
      (2)   An alternate member for each of the members set forth in
subsections (b)(5), (6), (7) and (8) above shall be elected at the same
election and in the same manner in which the member is elected, and the
alternate member shall serve in the absence of the regularly elected member. In
subsection (b)(7) the alternates for the general members employed by the Board
of Hospital Managers shall be alternates to the Trustees as follows: the
individual who receives the third highest number of votes shall be the first
alternate and the individual who receives the fourth highest number of votes
shall be the second alternate. The first alternate shall serve only in the
absence of one Trustee member and the second alternate shall serve only in the
event that both Trustees are absent.
   (d)   An alternate member for the member set forth in subsection (b)(1)
shall be selected by and serve at the pleasure of the City Council.
   (e)   An alternate member for the member set forth in subsection (b)(2)
shall be selected by the City Administrator.
   (f)   An alternate member for the member set forth in subsection (b)(3)
shall be selected by the Director of Finance.
   (g)   An alternate member for the member set forth in subsection (b)(4)
shall be selected by the President and CEO of Hurley Medical Center.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 2558, passed 6-
14-1976; Ord. 2649, passed 7-24-1978; Ord. 2811, passed 10-26-1981; Ord. 2960,
passed 6-24-1985; Ord. 3370, passed 4-27-1998; Ord. 3767, passed 5-24-2010)
§ 35-9 TRUSTEES’ TERM OF OFFICE; OATH OF OFFICE.
   (a)   The Trustee provided for in §
35-8(b)(8) shall be elected in 1975 for a four-year term. The term of office
for Trustees provided for in §
35-8(b)(5), (6) and (7) serving at the time of election of the Trustee provided
for in §
35-8(b)(8) shall be extended for one year and thereafter the term of office for
Trustees provided in §
35-8(b)(5), (6), (7) and (8) shall be four years, the term of one such Trustee
to expire each year. A Trustee shall continue to serve until his or her
successor has qualified.
   (b)   Each Trustee shall, within ten days after his or her appointment or
election, take and subscribe to an oath to support the Constitutions of the
United States and the State of Michigan and to faithfully perform the duties of
Trustee to the best of his or her ability.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 35-10 BOARD VACANCY; HOW FILLED.
   (a)   The position of Trustee shall be deemed to be vacated by a Trustee
provided in §
35-8(b)(5), (6), (7) or (8) if he or she:
      (1)   Resigns from the Board during his or her term as Trustee;
      (2)   Leaves the employ of the City;
      (3)   Transfers out of the division of government which he or she was
elected or appointed to represent; or
      (4)   Dies or is physically incapacitated.
   (b)   If the vacancy occurs in the position of Trustee provided in §
35-8(b)(5), (6), (7) or (8), the alternate member provided for the respective
Trustee position shall fill the vacancy. Any alternate member that fills a
vacancy for §
35-8(b)(5), (6), (7) or (8) shall hold the office of Trustee until the next
election is held for each respective Trustee position. In the event the
alternate member position for §
35-8(b)(5), (6), (7) or (8) is vacated, the Board shall fill the vacancy from
the ranks of the respective group from which the Trustee member was elected. A
vacancy in the position of Trustee provided in §
35-8(b)(1) shall be deemed to occur if the Trustee shall cease to be a member
of the City Council while serving as Trustee, or in the event he or she resigns
from the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2149, passed 8-18-1969; Ord. 2496, passed 5-
19-1975; Ord. 2558, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 2891, passed 1-9-1984; Ord. 3768,
passed 5-24-2010)
§ 35-11 MEETINGS OF BOARD; RECORDS; COMPENSATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall hold meetings regularly, at least one in each
month, and shall designate the time and place thereof. The Board of Trustees
shall adopt its own rules or procedure and shall keep a record of its
proceedings. All meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be in public. The
Trustees shall serve without additional compensation for their services as
Trustees.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-12 QUORUM OF BOARD; VOTE.
   Five Trustees shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the Board of
Trustees. Each Trustee shall be entitled to one vote on each question before
the Board and at least five concurring votes shall be necessary for a decision
by the Board.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 35-13 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF BOARD.
   (a)   The Board of Trustees shall elect from its own number a Chairperson
and a Vice-Chairperson.
   (b)   The Director of Finance shall be the Secretary of the Board of
Trustees and he or she shall serve as the administrative officer of the
retirement system.
   (c)   The City Treasurer shall be treasurer of the retirement system and the
custodian of its funds. All payments from the funds of the system shall be made
by the Treasurer, countersigned by the Director of Finance, only upon a
specific or continuing resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees authorizing
the payment or payments.
   (d)   The Chief Legal Officer shall be the legal advisor to the Board of
Trustees.
   (e)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint an Actuary to advise it regarding
the operation of the retirement system. The Actuary shall perform such other
duties as are required by him or her under the retirement plan.
   (f)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint as Medical Director a physician
who is not eligible for membership in the retirement system. He or she shall be
responsible to and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Trustees.
He or she shall arrange for and pass upon all medical examinations required
under the provisions of the retirement plan; he or she shall investigate all
essential statements and certificates of a medical nature made by or on behalf
of a member, retirant or beneficiary in connection with an application for
disability or death benefits; and he or she shall report in writing to the
Board his or her conclusion on medical matters referred to him or her by the
Board of Trustees.
   (g)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint an Investment Counselor who is a
chartered investment counselor or a chartered financial analyst to advise the
Secretary and the Board of Trustees regarding the investment of all funds of
the system.
   (h)   The Board of Trustees may employ such professional and other services
as are required for the proper operation of the retirement system. The
compensation for all services rendered to the Board shall be fixed by the City
Council.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2558, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 35-14 ANNUAL REPORT OF BOARD; ADOPTION OF EXPERIENCE TABLES; DATA TO BE KEPT
BY SECRETARY.
   (a)   The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, such data as shall be
necessary for an actuarial valuation of the assets and liabilities of the
retirement system. The Board of Trustees shall render a report to the City
Council, on or before November 1 of each year, showing the fiscal transactions
of the system for the year ended the preceding June 30; and a balance sheet
showing the financial condition of the system by means of an actuarial
valuation of its assets and liabilities; and any other information as the City
Council may request.
   (b)   The Board of Trustees shall adopt such mortality and other tables of
experience as are necessary, or in its opinion advisable, in the operation of
the retirement system on an actuarial basis.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-15 MEMBERSHIP OF SYSTEM.
   (a)   The membership of the retirement system shall include all employees
and officers of the City who are now or who hereafter become employed by the
City, except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this section.
   (b)   Persons who have been employed as members of the City Council, Judges
of the 68th Judicial District, the City Administrator, appointees of the City
Council, appointees of the Ombudsman, and appointees of the Mayor provided for
in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint who were members of the retirement
system before implementation of the City of Flint Employees Defined
Contribution Pension Plan are eligible to remain members of the retirement
system.
   (c)   The membership of the retirement system shall not include:
      (1)   Any person whose services are compensated on a contractual or fee
basis;
      (2)   Any person whose compensation is less than $1,000.00 a year;
      (3)   Any person represented by the medical technologist organization at
Hurley Medical Center who works less than 80 hours per month;
      (4)   The Medical Director;
      (5)   The Actuary;
      (6)   Members as such of multiple member boards;
      (7)   School crossing guards who have attained the age of 65 years, or
who are precluded from participation in the retirement system as set forth in §
35-69 hereof;
      (8)   Temporary employees employed by the Hurley Medical Center Board of
Hospital Managers, and not represented by a recognized bargaining unit;
      (9)   Employees hired after the implementation of the City of Flint
Employees Defined Contribution Plan who are not members of a recognized
bargaining unit, and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers;
      (10)   Employees who are not members of a recognized bargaining unit, and
not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, who have elected to terminate
their membership in the retirement system under §
35-15.1;
      (11)   Persons who become employed after implementation of the City of
Flint Employees Defined Contribution Pension Plan as members of the City
Council, Judges of the 68th Judicial District, the City Administrator,
appointees of the City Council, appointees of the Ombudsman, and appointees of
the Mayor specifically provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint;
      (12)   Persons employed in positions that are part-time, seasonal,
temporary or provisional; or
      (13)   Groups of employees employed by the City or the Hurley Board of
Managers that leave the retirement system by the express approval of its
Finance Director and relevant bargaining unit if any.
   (d)   Persons who have City service that is precedent to this amendment and
that has never been credited either to the system or a deferred compensation
plan may, at the same time, and in the same manner as is provided for
participation in the retirement system in subsection (c) elect to have the
service credited to the system.
   (e)   Appointed officials serving at the pleasure of the Board of Hospital
Managers may, within 30 days of hire or within one year from the effective date
of this provision, whichever is last to occur, elect to participate in an
alternate plan as approved and established by the Board of Hospital Managers in
lieu of participating in the retirement system. The election shall be
irrevocable and shall be made in writing in accordance with procedures adopted
by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2314, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2322, passed 4-
10-1972; Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 2558, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 2583,
passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2628, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979;
Ord. 2800, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. 2893, passed 2-13-1984; Ord. 2933, passed 1-
28-1985; Ord. 3201, passed 5-11-1992; Ord. 3303, passed 7-24-1995; Ord. 3462,
passed 9-25-2000; Ord. 3496, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3585, passed 6-24-2004;
Ord. 3639, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35-15.1 ELECTION TO TERMINATE PARTICIPATION IN THE CITY OF FLINT EMPLOYEES
RETIREMENT SYSTEM AND TO PARTICIPATE IN THE CITY OF FLINT DEFINED CONTRIBUTION
PENSION PLAN; IRREVOCABILITY.
   (a)   The retirement system shall provide an opportunity for each member who
is a member prior to the implementation date of the City of Flint Defined
Contribution Pension Plan, the date being established by resolution of the City
Council and incorporated herein by reference, and who is not a member of a
recognized bargaining unit, and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers,
to elect in writing: to terminate membership in this retirement system and
elect to become a participant in the City of Flint Employees Defined
Contribution Pension Plan. An election made by a member under this subsection
is irrevocable. The retirement system shall accept written elections under this
subsection from members during a window established by resolution of the City
Council incorporated herein by reference. A member who does not make a written
election or who does not file the election during the period specified above
continues to be a member of this retirement system. A member who makes and
files a written election, elects to do all of the following:
      (1)   Cease to be a member of this retirement system effective 12:00
midnight, in accordance with a date set forth by resolution of the City Council
incorporated herein by reference;
      (2)   Become a participant in the City of Flint Employees Defined
Contribution Pension Plan effective 12:01 a.m., in accordance with a date set
forth by resolution of the City Council incorporated herein by reference;
      (3)   Waive all of his or her rights to a pension, an annuity, a
retirement allowance or any other benefit under this retirement system
effective 12:00 midnight, in accordance with a date set forth by resolution of
the City Council incorporated herein by reference;
      (4)   Acknowledge and approves the transfer of his or her actuarial
present value of his or her accrued retirement benefit as provided in
subsection (c) below.
   (b)   An election under this section is subject to the Eligible Domestic
Relations Order Act, Act 46 of the Public Acts of 1991, being MCLA §§ 38.1701
through 38.1711.
   (c)   Transfer of lump sum amount. For a member who elects to terminate
membership in this retirement system under subsection (a) above, the retirement
system shall direct the custodian of the funds of the retirement system to
transfer a lump sum amount from the appropriate funds of the retirement system
to the City of Flint Employees Defined Contribution Pension Plan in accordance
with a date set forth by resolution of the City Council incorporated herein by
reference.
   (d)   The retirement system shall calculate the amount to be transferred,
which shall be equal to the sum of the following:
      (1)   The member’s accumulated contributions, if any, from the employees’
savings fund as of 12:00 midnight, in accordance with a date set forth by
resolution of the City Council incorporated herein by reference; and
      (2)   The excess, if any, of the actuarial present value of the member’s
accumulated benefit obligation, over the amount specified in subsection (d)(1),
from the pension reserve fund. For the purposes of this section, the present
value of the member’s accumulated benefit obligation is based upon the member’s
credited service and final average compensation as of 12:00 midnight in
accordance with a date set forth by resolution of the City Council incorporated
herein by reference. The actuarial present value shall be computed as of 12:00
midnight of a date set forth by resolution of the City Council incorporated
herein by reference in accordance with the following:
         a.   Seven and three-fourths effective annual interest, compounded
annually;
         b.   A 50% male and 50% female unisex blend of the 83-gam mortality
tables used to project retirant longevity in the most recent actuarial
valuation report;
         c.   A benefit commencement age, based upon the member’s estimated
credited service as of 12:00 midnight in accordance with a date set forth by
resolution of the City Council incorporated herein by reference. The benefit
commencement age shall be the member’s earliest retirement age at which the
member could receive an unreduced retirement benefit (excluding a disability
retirement) or the member’s current age, if greater;
         d.   Interest on any amounts determined in subsections (d)(1) and (d)
(2), to the date of the transfer, based upon 7.75% annual interest, compounded
annually.
   (e)   If the City of Flint or the retirement system receives notification
from the Internal Revenue Service that this section or any portion of this
section will cause the retirement system to be disqualified for tax purposes
under the Internal Revenue Code, then the portion that would cause the
disqualification will not apply.
(Ord. 3496, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3498, passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 3586, passed 6-
24-2004; Ord. 3640, passed 4-15-2005)
§ 35-16 FORMER PLAN POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   Any former plan police officer or firefighter who, within the provisions of
Section 201-A of the former City Charter, shall elect not to be covered by the
pension plan provided in Sections 202 and 211 of the former Charter and to
become a member of this retirement system shall be given service credit for all
service rendered the City prior to July 1, 1947. He or she shall also, as of
the date of his or her election, be credited with a contribution to the
employee savings fund of this retirement system in an amount equal to the
aggregate amount of his or her contributions to either the police service
pension fund of the fire service pension fund provided in Section 207 of the
former Charter. The employee savings fund credit shall in all respects, from
the date of the credit, inure to the benefit of the employee as though created
by original payroll deduction under the terms of this retirement system;
except, that upon death or separation from service, the employee or his or her
survivors or legal representative shall not be entitled to reimbursement
therefor out of funds of this retirement system as would otherwise be the case
under the provisions of §
35-35, unless the transfer of funds above provided for has been completed. Any
such former plan police officer or firefighter so electing to become a member
of this retirement system shall at that time irrevocably authorize and direct
the Director of Finance to pay into this retirement system as of one day prior
to the date the electing employee shall become a member of the retirement
system any sum which under the terms of Section 202 and 211 of the former
Charter would otherwise be payable as a contribution refund to the employee or
his or her representative. The payment so made shall be considered only as
reimbursement to the retirement system for the employee savings fund credit
above set forth.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-16.1 INCREASE IN BENEFITS FOR CHARTER PLAN FIREFIGHTERS.
   Those firefighters, the amount of whose pension is determined by Section 203
of the former Charter of the City, shall receive in addition thereto, an amount
which will increase the pension each year by 2% for a consecutive ten-year
period, such 2% to be computed on the original pension as follows: At the end
of the first year 102%, at the end of the second year 104%, at the end of the
third year 106%, at the end of the fourth year 108%, at the end of the fifth
year 110%, at the end of the sixth year 112%, at the end of the seventh year
114%, at the end of the eighth year 116%, at the end of the ninth year 118%,
and at the end of the tenth year 120%.
(Ord. 2134, passed 6-23-1969)
§ 35-16.1.1 INCREASE IN BENEFITS FOR CHARTER RETIREES.
   Retirees from the City Police and Fire Departments who are commonly known as
“Charter retirees,” in recognition for their service to the City, shall be paid
an increase equal to 7% of their annual City pensions, as the pension exists as
of July 1, 1990. This increase in pension shall be retroactive to July 1, 1990.
The initial payment shall be made as near the effective date of this section as
practicable.
(Ord. 3147, passed 9-24-1990)
§ 35-16.2 INCREASE IN BENEFITS FOR PERSONS RETIRED PURSUANT TO FORMER CITY
CHARTER.
   Effective August 1, 1978, as to persons who have attained age 62 and
effective on the first day of the month following attainment of age 62 for all
others, the appropriate City officials shall increase any pension payable
pursuant to Sections 202 through 211 of the former City Charter in an amount
sufficient, when added to the pension presently payable to the person will
increase that person’s annual pension in the amount of $3,000.00 per annum with
further increases of 2.5% per annum thereafter. The increase in the annual
pension shall take effect as of September 1, 1997 and shall be payable in such
manner and under such conditions as provided in Sections 202 through 211 of the
former City Charter.
(Ord. 2654, passed 7-24-1978; Ord. 2973, passed 10-28-1985; Ord. 3012, passed
10-13-1986; Ord. 3270, passed 3-14-1994; Ord. 3298, passed 5-22-1995; Ord.
3357, passed 11-10-1997; Ord. 3364, passed 2-23-1998; Ord. 3587, passed 6-24-
2004)
§ 35-16.2.1 BLUE CROSS/BLUE SHIELD COVERAGE FOR SURVIVING SPOUSES OF CHARTER
PENSION RETIREES.
   (a)   The appropriate City officials shall make available Blue Cross/Blue
Shield or like benefit to all eligible surviving spouses of Charter pension
retirees of the City not currently receiving the benefits and who submitted
their request by December 31, 1984; or whose spouse has been deceased after
that date, and until such time as they are covered by another plan or
remarried, and who, individually, request the coverage.
   (b)   Commencing at age 65, the coverage provided shall be Blue Cross-65
Supplementary.
(Ord. 2917, passed 8-13-1984; Ord. 2942, passed 2-11-1985)
§ 35-16.3 INCREASE IN SERVICE PENSIONS.
   The City shall, in the year 1980, cause to be made a review of the annual
service pension being paid by the retirement system to retirants who completed
15 or more years of service with the City prior to retirement. If, as a result
of the review a determination is made that a significant number of the
retirants are receiving annual service pensions below the level of low income
budget for a retired couple published by the U.S. Department of Labor, the
Board may adopt such formula as it deems appropriate for the improvement of
annual service pensions payable to the retirants following a determination by
the actuary that the improvement proposed is actually sound and capable of
being funded from revenue available in the retirement system. Any formula
adopted by the Board shall recognize the effective date of retirement, the age
of the retirant at the time of retirement, and the years and months of service
upon retirement. The amount of the improvement computed in accordance with the
formula shall not, when added to the original service pension payable to any
retirant, result in an annual pension which exceeds the level of the low income
budget for a retired couple published by the U.S. Department of Labor. The
adjusted annual service pension shall be payable thereafter in equal monthly
installments throughout the life of the retirant.
(Ord. 2771, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2966, passed 8-26-1985)
§ 35-16.4 ADDITIONAL ANNUAL PAYMENT; DETERMINATION AND DISTRIBUTION THEREOF;
ELIGIBLE RETIRANTS.
   (a)   At the end of each calendar year, the Consultant shall determine the
rate of investment return earned on retirement system assets during the
calendar year based upon if the retirement system is a minimum of 90% funded,
as determined by the actuary following sections shall be applicable.
   (b)   At the end of each calendar year, the retirement system’s Actuary
shall determine the present value of pensions to be paid after the end of the
calendar year to eligible retirants and retirement allowance beneficiaries in
receipt of pensions at the end of the calendar year. The assumed interest rate
used in the determination shall be 8% per year compounded annually.
   (c)   The distribution of income at the end of each calendar year shall be
equal to the product of the present value of pensions determined in subsection
(b) at the end of the calendar year times the positive excess, if any, of the
rate of investment return determined in subsection (a) exceeding 8%. Commencing
with the distribution of income for 2004 and continuing for any subsequent
year, the amount distributed during any year shall not exceed $3,000,000.00 or
the amount of excess earnings determined by the above formula, whichever is
less.
   (d)   After the end of each calendar year, each eligible retirant and
pension beneficiary in receipt of a pension at the end of the calendar year
shall be credited with distribution units equal to the number of full years
between the effective date of retirement and the end of the calendar year
multiplied by the number of full years of service credit in force on the
effective date of retirement. Distribution units shall not accumulate from one
year to the next.
   (e)   The distribution amount for an eligible retirant or pension
beneficiary shall be equal to the product of the distribution income determined
in subsection (c) times the individual’s number of distribution units
determined in subsection (d) divided by the total number of distribution units
for all eligible retirants and pension beneficiaries in receipt of pensions at
the end of the calendar year.
   (f)   The distribution amount for each eligible retirant or pension
beneficiary shall be payable in the form of a supplemental payment prior to
October 1, commencing with the calendar year 1985. If an eligible retirant dies
before receipt of the retirant’s distribution amount, the payment shall be made
to the retirant’s pension beneficiary, if any. If a pension beneficiary dies
before receipt of the pension beneficiary’s distribution amount, no payment
shall be made.
   (g)   Eligible retirants and beneficiaries are those who meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Commencing with the distribution of income for 2004 and continuing
for any subsequent year, the annual amount of pension paid is less than or
equal to the specified base amount of $24,852.00, adjusted annually by the City
Council in accordance with the Consumer Price Index. If the retiree elected to
avail himself or herself of the option of annuity withdrawal, the amount being
paid for the purposes of this subsection (g)(1) shall be considered to be the
annual amount which would have been paid if the annuity had not been withdrawn;
      (2)   The retirant or pension beneficiary in receipt of a pension must
have attained 55 years of age;
      (3)   The retirant must have retired at least one year prior to January 1
of the year in which the thirteenth check payment is made; and
      (4)   The retirant must not have retired under Sections 202 through 211
of the former City Charter.
(Ord. 3641, passed 4-11-2005; Ord. 3662, passed 7-11-2005; Ord. 3765, passed 4-
12-2010)
§ 35-16.5 CONTINGENT BENEFIT PAYMENT FOR ELIGIBLE CHARTER PLAN RETIREES.
   Persons identified as “Charter retirees,” per Section
9-204 of the City Charter, shall be paid an annual payment equal to 5% of their
annual City pensions, as such pensions exist as of January 1, 2002. The payment
shall be retroactive to January 1, 2002, and shall not be included in
calculating the Charter retirees’ annual pension amount. This payment shall be
made only when the Charter retirees are not entitled to a payment under §
35-16.2(a). Any payment due under this section shall be made in October, and a
retiree must have received a pension for the entire preceding calendar year to
be eligible. The initial payment under this section shall be made as soon as
practicable after the effective date of this section.
(Ord. 3636, passed 3-14-2005)
§ 35-17 TERMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP; REINSTATEMENT.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this retirement plan, should any
member(s) leave the employ of the City or Hurley Medical Center for any reason,
except his or her retirement or death, he or she shall thereupon cease to be a
member and his or her credited service at the time shall be forfeited by him or
her. In the event he or she is reemployed by the City or Hurley Medical Center
prior to his or her attainment of age 70 years if he or she is a firefighter
member of acquiring 25 years of credited service, if he or she is a police
officer member, or age 70 years if he or she is a general member he or she
shall again become a member. If his or her reemployment occurs within a period
of five years from and after the date of his or her last separation from City
employment his or her credit service last forfeited by him or her shall be
restored to his or her credit, subject to §
35-35(d). Provided, however, that as to members represented by Local 1799,
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), AFL-CIO,
if the reemployment occurs within a period of ten years from and after the date
of their last separation from City employment, and as to general members not
represented by recognized bargaining units and not employed by the Board of
Hospital Managers if the reemployment occurs within a period of 12 years from
and after the date of their last separation from City employment, their
credited service last forfeited by them shall be restored to their credit,
subject to §
35-35(d). A member who becomes a retirant or dies shall thereupon cease to be a
member.
   (b)   General members, not represented by recognized bargaining units and
not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, subject to reinstatement of
membership under this section, who between termination and subsequent
reemployment may have credited service from the temporary employment by
contribution to the employees’ savings fund of an amount equal to that which
the member would have contributed had he or she been a member during the period
of temporary employment and shall include interest computed in accordance with
§
35-6.
   (c)   Present and future supervisory and administrative employees of the
City of Flint, who are not represented by a collective bargaining unit, and who
are not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, may make application to buy
back prior governmental service, and periods when the employees were employees
of the City of Flint but, however, were temporarily laid off, or were on a
leave of absence without pay (including maternity leave) consistent with the
provisions of this section, provided however, that for these employees the
computation of the payment to the retirement system shall be computed using the
appropriate formula in effect as of the date of application as if the credit
were for prior military service under §
35-19. Provided further, that any prior governmental time purchased before
January 15, 1997, may be used for retirement purposes only including any
minimum length of service or membership requirements. In addition, present and
future supervisory or administrative employees of Hurley Medical Center who are
otherwise excluded from membership in recognized bargaining units may make
application to buy back prior governmental service consistent with the
following terms and conditions. To be effective the application must be filed
between the effective date of this section and the effective date of the
member’s retirement. The Secretary shall compute the amount to be required as a
contribution to this system on the same basis as if the compensation has been
paid by the City of Flint or Hurley Medical Center and shall include the
employee’s and employer’s contributions with interest, computed in accordance
with §
35-6 hereof. The payment shall be equal to the actuarial present value as of
the date of the buy-back of the person payable by this system attributable to
the prior governmental service. The amount so determined shall be paid into the
system by the applicant in one installment, payable not less than 90 days from
the date the petition is filed. For present and future supervisory or
administrative employees of Hurley Medical Center not represented by a
recognized bargaining unit the amount so determined shall be paid into the
system by the applicant in one installment, payable not more than 90 days from
the date the application is filed and in case later than the effective date of
the member’s retirement. In the event the required contribution is not made
within that time, no credit shall be given for the prior service. The maximum
credit for prior service with other governmental units shall be ten years and
the member shall be required to complete a minimum of 15 years as a member of
this system before becoming eligible for benefits under this section. Provided,
however, that any applicant under this section who has vested pension rights
with another governmental pension system shall not be entitled to any pension
benefits under this section other than those earned for service with the City.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 2558, passed 6-
14-1976; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 2897,
passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 3172, passed 5-28-1991; Ord. 3201, passed 5-11-1992;
Ord. 3280, passed 7-25-1994; Ord. 3282, passed 10-24-1994; Ord. 3326, passed 3-
11-1996)
§ 35-18 SERVICE CREDIT.
   The Board of Trustees shall fix and determine by appropriate rules and
regulations the amount of service to be credited to a member in any year;
provided, that in no case shall less than ten days of service rendered in any
calendar month be credited as a month of service; nor shall less than ten
months of service rendered in any year be credited as a year of service, nor
shall more than one year of service be credited any member for all service
rendered by him or her in any one year.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-18.1 CREDIT FOR CERTAIN PRIOR CITY SERVICE (CETA).
   (a)   Persons employed by the City, who are not members of a recognized
bargaining unit, and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, as of the
effective date of this amendment, who have previous City employment funded
pursuant to the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act (CETA), for which
they have not received retirement credit, may, within one year following the
effective date of this amendment, elect to receive credit, for retirement
purposes only, for the above previous employment. Credit shall be given only
upon payment to the retirement system of a contribution calculated on the same
basis as if employee contributions had been made to the system at the same time
as the compensation was received and shall include interest equivalent to that
which would have accumulated had the contributions been originally made to the
system.
   (b)   The contribution shall be made in one installment, payable not later
than five years from the date of election.
(Ord. 3075, passed 10-10-1988; Ord. 3083, passed 11-28-1988)
§ 35-19 CREDIT FOR TIME IN ARMED SERVICES.
   (a)   (1)   Should an employee(s), who is/were employed by the City, be
called to or enter, or was/were called to or entered, any armed service of the
United States during any period of compulsory military service, he or she shall
have such armed service actually required of him or her credited him or her as
City service, provided that:
         a.   He or she is reemployed by the City within 90 days from and after
the date the armed service actually required of him or her terminates;
         b.   He or she returns to employees’ savings fund all amounts he or
she might have withdrawn therefrom at the time he or she entered, or while in,
the armed service, together with regular interest thereon from the date of
withdrawal to the date of repayment; and
         c.   In no case shall more than five years of service be credited to
him or her for all such armed service rendered by him or her.
      (2)   In any case of doubt as to the period to be credited, the Board of
Trustees shall have final power to determine the period. During the period of
such armed service and until their return to City employment their
contributions to the employees’ savings fund shall be suspended and their
balance therein shall be accumulated at regular interest.
   (b)   Credit for prior military service.
      (1)   General members regularly employed in full-time, permanent
positions represented by Locals 1600 and 1799 American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, firefighters and police officer
members holding the rank of sergeant, and any person hereafter employed in any
of these positions, may on or before 60 days of the effective date of this
section or within 60 days of appointment to any of the above positions, and not
thereafter, or general members not represented by a collective bargaining unit
and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers allocated to level 22-E or
below, at any time on or prior to January 15, 1997, or general members employed
by the Board of Hospital Managers and allocated to level 22-C or below and not
represented by a recognized bargaining unit and any person hereafter employed
in any of the positions may at any time between the effective date of this
section and the member’s effective date of retirement, once and not thereafter,
elect to receive credit for retirement purposes only, for time served in the
armed forces of the United States on active duty for other than training
purposes, and for which they received an honorable discharge. Provided,
however, general members represented by Local 1600, American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, firefighter members and police
officer members holding the rank of sergeant shall not be permitted to use the
military time to meet the minimum requirements set forth in this Code for
deferred retirement or voluntary retirement. The maximum amount of military
service for which they may receive credit shall be 36 months, and the credit
shall be given only upon payment to the retirement system of a contribution
computed in the following manner:
   Induction rate for the classification the employee hired into as a regular
full-time permanent employee in effect at the time of making the election,
multiplied by the number of years or months of military service, plus interest
computed at the rate established by the Director of Finance, computed from the
date of hire. Provided further, that after January 15, 1995, general members
not represented by a collective bargaining agent in a collective bargaining
unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers allocated to level 22-
E or below, may at any time prior to the member’s effective date of retirement,
once and not thereafter, elect to receive credit for prior military service, as
above, except that payment to the retirement system shall be equal to the
actuarial present value as of the date of the buy-back of the pension payable
by the system attributable to the prior military service.
      (2)   The contribution shall be made in one installment, payable not
later than five years from the date of election, and in no case later than the
effective date of the member’s retirement for those general members employed by
the Hurley Medical Center and not represented by a recognized bargaining unit.
In the event the required deposit is not made within 90 days of the date of
election, additional interest at the rate of 3/4% per month from the date of
election to the date of payment shall be paid by the applicant.
      (3)   No credit shall be granted for any military service for which the
employee is receiving a pension or which has been used in establishing
entitlement to a pension from any other governmental entity, nor shall the
credit be granted prior to the submission of appropriate documentation from the
proper military authorities indicating the character of the service and nature
of separation.
   (c)   (1)   A general member hereafter regularly employed in a full-time
permanent position allocated to level 23 or above, not represented by a
recognized bargaining unit or persons elected to the City Council, District
Judges of the 68th Judicial District, the City Administrator, appointees of the
City Council, and appointees of the Mayor provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter, may on or before January 15, 1997, and not thereafter, or
general members employed by Hurley Medical Center and allocated to level 23 and
above and not represented by a recognized bargaining unit and any person
hereafter employed in any of these positions may at any time between the
effective date of this section and the member’s effective date of retirement,
once and not thereafter, elect to receive credit for retirement purposes only,
for the time served in the armed forces of the United States on active duty for
other than training purposes, and for which they received and honorable
discharge. The maximum amount of military service for which they may receive
credit shall be 36 months, and the credit shall be given only upon payment to
the retirement system of a contribution computed in the following manner:
   Induction rate for the position the employee hired into as a regular full-
time permanent employee in effect at the time of making the election,
multiplied by the number of years or months of military service, plus interest
computed at the rate established by the Director of Finance, from the date of
hire. Provided further, that after January 15, 1997, general members not
represented by a collective bargaining agent in a collective bargaining unit
and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers and allocated to level 23 or
above, may at any time prior to the member’s effective date of retirement, once
and not thereafter, elect to receive credit for prior military service, as
above, except that the payment to the retirement system shall be equal to the
actuarial present value as of the date of the buy-back of the pension payable
by the system attributable to the prior military service.
      (2)   The contribution shall be made in one installment, payable not
later than five years from the date of election. For general members employed
by the Hurley Medical Center and allocated to levels 23 and above and not
represented by a recognized bargaining unit and any persons hereafter employed
in any one of the positions shall make the contribution in one installment
payable within five years of the election, and in no case later than the
effective date of the member’s retirement. In the event the required deposit is
not made within 90 days of the date of election, additional interest at the
rate of 3/4% per month from the date of election to the date of payment shall
be paid by the applicant.
      (3)   No credit shall be granted for any military service for which the
employee is receiving a pension or which has been used in establishing
entitlement to a pension from any other source, nor shall credit be granted
prior to the submission of appropriate documentation from the proper military
authorities indicating the character of the service and the nature of
separation.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 2903, passed 4-
9-1984; Ord. 3201, passed 5-11-1992; Ord. 3280, passed 7-25-1994; Ord. 3326,
passed 3-11-1996)
§ 35-19.1 EMERGENCY REEMPLOYMENT.
   (a)   Reemployment generally.
      (1)   In the public interest in time of emergency so declared by the City
Council, persons of the following types employed thereunder shall be employed
according to civil service procedure as provided for this type of employment,
and shall be employed under the applicable provisions thereof.
      (2)   The Civil Service Commission shall certify to the proper appointing
officer of the City department or board involved that requisition has been made
for replacement and that no eligible list can be established for the position
or positions in which the person is to be employed, proper efforts having been
made for recruitment.
      (3)   Any person so employed by the City may continue in the City service
only such period of time until eligible list for the emergency position held by
him or her can be established, or until his or her service are held to be
unsatisfactory by his or her appointing officer, whichever period time is
shorter.
   (b)   Emergency reemployment of retired members.  Any former member of the
retirement system who was retired by the Board of Trustees, with or without a
retirement allowance, may be reemployed with his or her consent. As a condition
of the emergency reemployment of the former retired member by the City:
      (1)   He or she shall not again become a member of the retirement system
and he or she shall not, in any manner, be entitled to any retirement system
rights and privileges by virtue of his or her emergency reemployment; and
      (2)   The payment of his or her retirement allowance, if any, granted him
or her upon his or her previous retirement from service shall be suspended and
shall not accrue during his or her emergency reemployment, and shall be resumed
immediately following the termination of his or her emergency reemployment
according to the same conditions, in all respects, as his or her retirement
allowance was originally granted; provided, his or her annuity, if any, payable
to him or her at the time of termination of his or her the emergency
reemployment shall be recomputed upon the basis of:
         a.   His or her annuity reserve at the time his or her emergency
reemployment began;
         b.   His or her age at the time his or her emergency reemployment
terminated; and
         c.   The option originally elected by him or her.
   (c)   Emergency employment of over-age personnel. Persons who have attained
the age beyond the age of compulsory retirement as provided in §
35-21 may be employed. As a condition of the emergency employment of the over-
age person by the City, he or she shall not become a member of the retirement
system and he or she shall not, in any manner, be entitled to any retirement
system rights and privileges by virtue of the emergency employment.
(Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975)
§ 35-20 CREATING MEMBER’S SERVICE ACCOUNT.
   The Board of Trustees shall credit each member’s service account with the
number of years and months of service to which he or she is entitled.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-21 VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT.
   A member who has attained or attains his or her voluntary retirement age and
has ten or more years of credited service may retire upon his or her written
application filed with the Board of Trustees setting forth at what time, not
less than 30 days nor more than 90 days subsequent to the execution and filing
thereof, he or she desires to be retired. A member may not extend his or her
application for retirement more than three times within a three-year period
from the date of initial application. The application shall, absent the mutual
agreement of the member and the employer, be deemed irrevocable 30 days
preceding the effective date of retirement. Unless otherwise designated, the
Personnel Director shall, for purposes of this section, be deemed the employer.
Upon his or her retirement he or she shall receive a pension provided in §
35-23 if he or she is a general member, or, as provided in §
35-24.1 if he or she is a police officer member.
(Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 2895, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 35-22 MANDATORY RETIREMENT — GENERAL MEMBER; FIREFIGHTER.
   (a)   The first day of the calendar month next following the month in which
a general member or firefighter member attains mandatory retirement age, he or
she shall be retired, provided, in either case he or she has ten or more years
of credited service and is neither an appointee of the City Council, an
appointee of the Mayor provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint nor an elected officer or District
Judge of the City; provided, however, that as to members represented by Local
1799 American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, an
extension of employment up to a maximum of six months beyond mandatory
retirement age shall be granted upon approval and recommendation of the City
Administrator. Upon his or her retirement he or she shall be entitled to a
pension provided in §
35-24 if he or she is a firefighter member or as provided in §
35-23 if he or she is a general member.
   (b)   Upon written request of a general member or firefighter member who has
attained or attains mandatory retirement age, approved by his or her department
head, the Board may continue the member in service for periods not to extend
beyond his or her attainment of age 70 years.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2206, passed 4-13-1970; Ord. 2446, passed 2-
7-1974; Ord. 2558, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 35-22.1 MANDATORY RETIREMENT — POLICE OFFICER MEMBER.
   (a)   Until January 1, 1975, a police officer member shall be separated from
City employment on the first day of the calendar month next following the month
in which he or she acquires 25 years of credited service or attains age 55
years, whichever is last to occur.
   (b)   Effective January 1, 1975, a police officer member shall be separated
from City employment not later than December 31 of the calendar year in which
he or she acquires 25 years of credited service. Upon his or her retirement he
or she shall be entitled to a pension as provided in §
35-24.1.
(Ord. 2446, passed 7-1-1974)
§ 35-23 AGE AND SERVICE PENSION — GENERAL MEMBERS.
   (a)   Upon his or her retirement, as provided in the retirement plan, a
general member shall receive a straight life pension and he or she shall have
the right to elect to receive his or her pension under an option provided in §
35-26 in lieu of his or her straight pension.
   (b)   Except as provided in subsections (c), (d), (e), (f) and (h) hereof,
his or her straight life pension shall be equal to 1.5% of his or her final
average compensation multiplied by the number of years, and fraction of a year,
of his or her credited service, except as provided in subsections (c) and (d)
hereof.
   (c)   A general member represented by Locals 1603A, 1973 and 825 American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, a general member
allocated to level 22B and below not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers, and effective July 1, 1976, a general member represented by the
Public Health Nurses Organization shall receive a straight life pension equal
to 2% of his or her final average compensation multiplied by the number of
years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited service, not to exceed 25
years. Provided, however, effective March 15, 1979, as to a general member
allocated to level 22B or below not represented by a recognized bargaining unit
and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, the pension shall be
computed in accordance with subsection (f) hereof.
   (d)   A general member represented by Local 1600, American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, shall receive a straight life
pension equal to 2% of his or her final average compensation multiplied by the
number of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited service, not to
exceed 25 years and effective July 1, 1978, the general member shall receive a
straight life pension equal to 2.2% of his or her final average compensation
multiplied by a number of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited
service.
   (e)   A general member represented by Local 1799, American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, shall receive a straight life
pension equal to 2% of his or her final average compensation multiplied by the
number of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited service, not to
exceed 25 years, and fraction of a year of his or her credited service in
excess of 25 years and effective July 1, 1978, the general member shall receive
a straight life pension equal to 2.4% of his or her final average compensation
multiplied by the number of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her
credited service.
   (f)   (1)   A general member allocated to level 23 and above not represented
by a recognized bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers, persons elected to the City Council, District Judges of the 68th
Judicial District, the City Administrator, appointees of the Mayor provided for
in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint shall receive a straight life pension
equal to 2.2% of his or her final average compensation multiplied by the number
of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited service. Effective
March 15, 1979, a general member not represented by a recognized bargaining
unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, persons elected to the
City Council, District Judges of the 68th Judicial District, the City
Administrator, appointees of the City Council, and appointees of the Mayor
provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint shall receive a straight life pension
equal to 2.4% of his or her final average compensation multiplied by the number
of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited service.
      (2)   Effective July 1, 1976, the pension herein provided shall be
supplemented by increasing the original pension by 2% each year for ten
consecutive years so that the increased pension shall be equal to the following
percentages based on the original pension: At the end of the first year 102%,
at the end of the second year 104%, at the end of the third year 106%, at the
end of the fourth year 108%, at the end of the fifth year 110%, at the end of
the seventh year 114%, at the end of the eighth year 116%, at the end of the
ninth year 118% and at the end of the tenth year 120%. This subsection (2)
shall not apply to employees hired or promoted to become an exempt after
January 1, 1985.
   (g)   According to such rules and regulations as the Board of Trustees shall
from time to time adopt, any general member who retires before reaching the
minimum age at which they can receive an unreduced social security primary
insurance amount, may elect to have their straight life pension actuarially
equated to provide an increased pension payable until they reach the minimum
age at which they can receive an unreduced social security primary insurance
amount, and a reduced pension payable thereafter. The increased pension payable
until they reach the minimum age at which they can receive an unreduced social
security primary insurance amount, shall approximate the sum of the reduced
pension payable upon reaching the minimum age at which they can receive an
unreduced social security primary insurance amount and the estimated social
security primary insurance amount.
   (h)   A general member employed by the Board of Hospital Managers whose
retirement date is effective during the period from May 1, 1985 through
December 31, 1985 shall receive a straight life pension equal to 2% of his or
her final average compensation multiplied by the number of years, and fraction
of a year, of his or her credited service not to exceed 25 years plus 1.5 of
his or her final average compensation multiplied by the number of years and
fraction of a year of his or her credited service in excess of 25 years.
   (i)   (1)   General members not represented by a collective bargaining agent
in a collective bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers, who were employed in such status on January 4, 1994, and who
attained, or will attain, 20 or more years of credit service as of their date
of retirement, and who retire between November 1, 1994 and January 15, 1995,
will be credited with five additional years of service which may be used for
retirement purposes only, including meeting any length of service eligibility
requirements, provided that the employee applies for retirement on or before
October 15, 1994.
      (2)   General members not represented by a collective bargaining agent in
a collective bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers
and allocated to level 23 or above who are appointed by the Mayor pursuant to §
4-401, persons elected to the City Council, District Judges of the 68th
Judicial District, the City Administrator, Appointees of the City Council, and
Appointees of the Mayor provided in Sections 4-202 and 4-203 of the Charter,
who were employed in that status on January 4, 1994, and who attained, or will
attain, 20 or more years of credited service as of the date of their
retirement, and who retire between November 1, 1995 and January 15, 1996, will
be credited with five additional years of service which may be used for
retirement purposes only, including meeting any length of service eligibility
requirements, provided that any such employee applies for retirement on or
before October 15, 1994.
   (j)   (1)   General members not represented by a collective bargaining agent
in a collective bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers, and who were employed by the City but not employed by the Board of
Hospital Managers on January 4, 1994, and who attained, or will attain, 20 or
more years of service as of their date of retirement, and who retire between
November 1, 1996 and January 15, 1997, will be credited with five additional
years of service which may be used for retirement purposes only, including
meeting any length of service eligibility requirements, provided that the
employee applies for retirement on or before October 15, 1996.
      (2)   General members not represented by a collective bargaining agent in
a collective bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers
and allocated to level 23 or above who are appointed by the Mayor pursuant to §
4-401, persons elected to the City Council, District Judges of the 68th
Judicial District, the City Administrator, Appointees of the City Council, and
Appointees of the Mayor provided in Sections 4-202 and 4-203 of the Charter,
who were employed in that status on January 4, 1994, and who attained, or will
attain, 20 or more years of service as of the date of their retirement, and who
retire between November 1, 1996 and January 15, 1997 will be credited with five
additional years of service which may be used for retirement purpose only,
including meeting any length of service eligibility requirements, provided that
any such employee applies for retirement on or before October 15, 1996.
   (k)   General members who are not represented by a collective bargaining
unit, and who are not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, may make
application between January 15, 1998 and February 15, 1998 to purchase a
maximum of 60 months of service credit (generic time) for retirement purposes
only, including any minimum length of service or membership requirements, and
the credit shall be given only upon payment to the retirement system, no later
than February 15, 1998, of a contribution equal to the actuarial present value
as of the date of the purchase of the pension payable by the retirement system
attributable to the generic time and further if the general member makes timely
application to purchase the generic time and further makes timely payment for
same, then the general member must retire no later than March 31, 1998.
   (l)   General members who are to be laid off due to a permanent elimination
of the employee’s position and not represented by a collective bargaining agent
in a collective bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers, who were employed in the same status on January 4, 1994, and who will
have attained 20 or more years of credit service as of their date of
retirement, and who retire between April 23, 2001 and August 31, 2001 may elect
to be credited with five additional years of service which may be used for
retirement purposes or retirees health care cost contribution purposes only,
including meeting any length of service eligibility requirements.
   (m)   General members who are not represented by a collective bargaining
unit may, during the period between April 23, 2001 and August 31, 2001,
purchase for the purpose of retirement eligibility and/or retirement benefit
computation only, the following: prior military service credit under the
formula in effect for the purchase of military service credit as of July 1,
1986. The minimum amount of time for purchase under this subsection shall be 36
months of service. Prior governmental service time with a governmental entity
other than the City, layoff time from the City, sick leave without pay from the
City, leaves of absence without pay from the City, and/or interim or temporary
time with the City. The purchase of generic time by making a contribution equal
to the actuarial present value as of the date of the purchase. In addition,
during the same time period, any employee not represented by a bargaining unit
may make a redeposit of any previously withdrawn employee contribution to the
retirement system. The purchase or redeposit shall be computed on the basis of
the amount the employee withdrew or the amount the employee would have
contributed, in the case of governmental service, layoff time, and/or without
pay time, plus 6% interest compounded annually from the relevant date the
contribution would have been originally made or date of withdrawal. No employee
may purchase or redeposit any time for which the employee is receiving a
pension or which has been used in establishing entitlement to a pension from
any other source nor shall credit be granted prior to the submission of
appropriate documentation from the proper governmental authorities indicating
the character of the employment.
   (n)   No purchase of time shall total a period greater than 84 months of
retirement service credit. Employees who are not represented by a collective
bargaining unit may accomplish the purchase or redeposit of time in whole or in
part by “selling” back to the City accumulated annual and/or sick leave; it
being understood that employees retiring on or before August 31, 2001 may sell
back accumulated annual and/or sick leave out of their final check.
   (o)   Any employee who is not represented by a collective bargaining unit
who held a position eliminated by reason of layoff prior to April 23, 2001 and
who elects to retire on or before August 31, 2001 will have their final average
compensation calculated on the basis of the pay rate in effect immediately
prior to his or her layoff.
   (p)   General members who are to be laid off due to a permanent elimination
of the employee’s position and who are not represented by a collective
bargaining agent in a collective bargaining unit and not employed by the Board
of Hospital Managers and who will have attained ten years of service as of the
date of the severance may elect to receive a severance payment equal to the
employee’s hourly base rate multiplied by 1040 with that severance payment
included in the employee’s final average compensation for retirement purposes.
The election shall not be effective unless the employee takes a deferred
retirement at the same time as the election on or before August 31, 2001. The
severance payment must be reimbursed to the City prior to the re-employment of
the employee by the City in any capacity.
   (q)   General members who are to be laid off due to a permanent elimination
of the employee’s position and are not represented by a collective bargaining
agent in a collective bargaining unit, and not employed by the Board of
Hospital Managers, who were employed in the same status on January 1, 2008 and
who attained, or will attain, 20 or more years of credited service as of their
date of their job elimination, and who retire between June 30, 2008 and October
1, 2008 will be credited with five additional years of service which may be
used for retirement purposes only, including meeting any length of service
eligibility requirements, provided that any such employee applies for
retirement on or before September 1, 2008.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 227, passed 4-25-1938; Ord. 2314, passed 2-
24-1969; Ord. 2375, passed 10-18-1972; Ord. 2370, passed 12-11-1972; Ord. 2403,
passed 8-20-1973; Ord. 2432, passed 3-11-1974; Ord. 2453, passed 8-19-1974;
Ord. 2457, passed 10-7-1974; Ord. 2473, passed 12-30-1974; Ord. 2543, passed 2-
2-1976; Ord. 2558, passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2628,
passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 2929, passed 12-19-1984;
Ord. 2959, passed 6-24-1985; Ord. 3280, passed 7-25-1994; Ord. 3317, passed 12-
20-1995; Ord. 3321, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 3326, passed 3-11-1996; Ord. 3360,
passed 1-12-1998; Ord. 3474, passed 5-29-2001; Ord. 3622, passed 8-23-2004;
Ord. 3720, passed 7-14-2008)
§ 35-23.1 AGE AND SERVICE PENSION — “POP-UP” OPTIONS FOR CERTAIN GENERAL
MEMBERS.
   (a)   (1)   For general members not represented by recognized bargaining
units and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, effective July 1,
1986, pension Option “B” joint and survivor pension as provided in §
35-26, may be selected as “pop-up” options.
      (2)   The “pop-up” options shall provide that when the named beneficiary
dies prior to the retirant, the retirant’s pension shall then be increased to a
straight life pension. Provided that if the actuary can provide the necessary
tables, the pop-up shall also become effective in the event the named
beneficiary is divorced from retirant. Provided, however, that the actuarial
tables used in calculating the Options “B” and “C” with pop-up shall be such
that there is no increased cost to the City or the retirement system.
   (b)   For general members not represented by recognized bargaining units and
employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, and who are members of the
“contributory” program, and who retire after the effective date of this
section, pension Option “B” joint and survivor pension and Option “C” modified
joint and survivor pension, as provided in §
35-26, may be selected as pop-up options. Provided, that if the actuary can
provide the necessary tables, the pop-up shall also become effective in the
event the named beneficiary is divorced from the retirant. Provided, however,
the actuarial tables used in calculating the Options “B” and “C” with pop-up
shall be such that there is no increased cost to the City or the retirement
system.
(Ord. 3023, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 35-23.2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HURLEY ALTERNATIVE PENSION PLAN. The new pension plan hereby established as
a non- contributory plan for employees of the Hurley Medical Center electing to
be covered thereby.
   HURLEY ALTERNATIVE PENSION PLAN MEMBER. An employee of Hurley Medical Center
otherwise qualifying for membership in the City retirement system who elects
the provisions of the Hurley alternative plan.
   MODIFIED CONTRIBUTORY PENSION PLAN. That plan agreed to as of January 1,
1987 by the respective employee collective bargaining units at Hurley Medical
Center and as set forth herein, which modifies the “retirement plan” as
generally set forth in Article II with respect to Hurley Medical Center
employees.
   REGULAR RETIREMENT AGE. Age 60 for members of the Hurley alternative pension
plan.
   SPECIAL EARLY RETIREMENT AGE. Age 55 for members of the Hurley alternative
pension plan.
(Ord. 3029, passed 3-9-1987)
§ 35-23.3 PLAN PARTICIPATION.
   All employees of Hurley Medical Center who qualify for membership in the
City Employee Retirement System shall have their pensions determined in
accordance with the modified contributory plan as set forth herein, provided
that:
   (a)   Employees hired after the effective date of this section shall have an
option, exercisable within 30 days, to elect to participate in the Hurley
alternative pension plan.
   (b)   Employee members of the retirement system at the time this section
becomes effective shall have until December 31, 1987 to exercise their option
to participate in the Hurley alternative pension plan. Thereafter, the
employees’ pension shall be determined exclusively under the modified
contribution plan.
   (c)   Current eligible employees who are not members of a recognized
bargaining unit shall have the option of retaining their existing pension plan
or electing to participate in the modified contributory plan or the alternative
pension plan. Employees hired after January 1, 1987 who are not members of a
recognized bargaining unit must select the modified contributory plan or the
alternate non-contributory plan.
   (d)   Current eligible exempt employees not represented by a collective
bargaining unit and who work for the Hurley Medical Center Board of Managers
who have 15 years of credited service as of the earlier of the date the
employee makes an election under this section or June 30, 2000 and elected to
participate in the Noncontributory Hurley Alternative Pension Plan, during the
two-year period beginning July 1, 1998 and ending June 30, 2000, may
irrevocably elect to participate in the modified contributory pension plan in
lieu of the Hurley Alternative Pension Plan and make employee contributions as
described in §
35-23.4(b).
      (1)   In addition to making the employee contributions required under §
35-23.4(b) of the retirement system, an employee who elects to participate in
the modified contributory pension plan under this section shall make a
contribution to a modified contributory pension plan equal to the sum of:
         a.   The amount distributed to the employee in conjunction with the
employee’s election to participate in the Hurley Alternative Pension Plan in
lieu of the old contributory program under the retirement system;
         b.   An amount equal to the contributions which would have been made
to the modified contributory pension plan from the date the employee terminated
participation in the old contributory program under the retirement system
through the date the employee elects to participate in the modified
contributory pension plan; plus
         c.   An amount equal to the interest (7% compounded annually) that
would have accumulated on all such employee contributions described in
subsections (d)(1)a. and (1)b. above. The method and timing of payment by an
employee under this section shall be determined by the Hurley Medical Center
Board of Managers.
      (2)   The contributions to the modified contributory pension plan shall
be deducted by Hurley Medical Center and remitted as employer contributions to
the retirement system pursuant to §
35-35 of the retirement system. An employee eligible under this section who
contributes to the modified contributory pension plan shall be entitled to the
benefits determined in accordance with §
35-23.4 of the retirement system.
      (3)   As authorized by resolution of its governing body, Hurley Medical
Center shall pick up all contributions of employees qualified under this
section made pursuant to §
35-23.4(b) of the retirement system and this section for all compensation
payable to the employees on and after the later of (i) the date the employees
make an election under this agreement, or (ii) July 1, 1998 and reported to the
retirement system. Although considered contributions of a member for certain
purposes under
Chapter 35 of the Code of the City of Flint, all contributions picked up shall
be treated as paid by the employer in lieu of contributions by the employee
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code Section 414(H)2. Electing employees shall
not have the option of choosing to receive contributed amounts directly instead
of having them paid by the employer to the retirement system. Accordingly,
employee contributions picked up by the employer shall not be included in the
gross income of employees until such time as the amounts so contributed are
distributed to employees as refunds or benefit payments. Contributions picked
up as provided in §
35-23.4(b) of the retirement system shall be paid to the retirement system by
the employer from the same source of funds that is used for paying compensation
to the employee. Hurley Medical Center may pick up these contributions by
either a reduction in the employee’s salary increase, or a combination of
reduction of salary and offset against a future salary increase.
      (4)   The compensation of electing employees before reduction for the
foregoing employee contributions shall continue to serve as the basis for
determining the amount of compensation related fringe benefits, including
retirement benefits.
   (e)   Groups of employees employed by the Hurley Board of Managers that
leave the retirement system by the express approval of its finance director and
relevant bargaining unit, if any shall be ineligible to participate in any plan
of the retirement system.
(Ord. 3029, passed 3-9-1987; Ord. 3372, passed 6-8-1998; Ord. 3589, passed 6-
24-2004)
§ 35-23.4 ALTERNATIVE PENSION PLAN DESCRIPTION.
   (a)   Final average compensation determination. Final average compensation
for alternative plan members shall be determined by taking the average of the
highest annual compensation paid a member during any period of five years of
his or her credited service contained within his or her ten years of credited
service immediately preceding the date that his or her employment with Hurley
Medical Center terminates.
   (b)   Employee contributions.
      (1)   There shall be no employee contributions to the alternative plan.
      (2)   Hurley members of the retirement system who elect to become
alternative plan members shall be paid their accumulated contributions standing
to their credit in the employee savings fund as soon as practicable following
the date participation in the alternative plan is commenced. The funds shall be
returned to the employee with interest earned at the rate of 4% per annum,
compounded annually.
   (c)   Straight life pension determination. Alternative plan members shall
receive a straight life pension equal to 1.55 of their final average
compensation multiplied by the number of years, and a fraction of a year, of
his or her credited service. Effective April 1, 2002, for the first 25 years of
service, alternative plan members shall receive a straight life pension equal
to 1.7% of their final average compensation multiplied by the number of years,
and a fraction of a year, of their credited service. For all years of service
exceeding 25 years, the pension shall be computed by taking 1.5% of his or her
final average compensation and multiplying that figure by the number of years
and a fraction of a year of his or her credited service exceeding 25.
   (d)   Vesting requirements. Alternative plan members rights to a pension
shall vest when a member has acquired ten years of credited service.
   (e)   Regular retirement. Upon retirement at the regular retirement age,
alternative plan members shall receive a straight life pension and shall have
the right to elect to receive a pension under an option provided in §
35-26 in lieu of a straight life pension.
   (f)   Special early retirement.
      (1)   Hurley alternative plan members who have attained or attain special
early retirement age and have ten or more years of credited service may retire
upon filing written application with the Board of Trustees setting forth at
what time, not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days subsequent to the
execution and filing of the application, the member desires to be retired.
Members may not extend their application for retirement more than three times
within a three-year period from the date of initial application. An application
shall, absent the mutual agreement of the member and the employer, be deemed
irrevocable 30 days preceding the effective date of retirement. Unless
otherwise designated, the personnel director shall for purposes of this
section, be deemed the employer.
      (2)   Upon special early retirement, Hurley alternative plan members may
elect to receive the actuarial equivalent of their special early retirement
date which shall be payable throughout the member’s life, and the member shall
have the right to elect to receive such actuarially reduced pensions under an
option provided in §
35-26 in lieu of a straight life pension.
   (g)   Other retirement plan provisions.
      (1)   Alternative plan members who are eligible for disability pensions
(§
35-29) and ordinary death pension (§
35-31) shall have those pensions computed in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
      (2)   All other provisions of the retirement plan for the City employees’
retirement system shall remain in full force and effect except as modified by
this section.
   (h)   Plan administration. This plan shall be administered in accordance
with the ordinances governing the administration of the City employees’
retirement system.
   (i)   Pop-up option. Members participating in the alternative plan, and who
elect Option “B” (joint and survivor pension) or Option “C” (modified joint and
survivor pension) under §
35-26 of this Code, shall have these options treated as “pop-up” options so
that when the named beneficiary dies prior to the retirant, or if the named
beneficiary is divorced from the retirant, the retirant’s pension shall then be
increased to a straight life pension. Provided, however, the actuarial tables
used in calculating the Options “B” and “C” with pop-up shall be such that
there shall be no increased cost to Hurley or the retirement system.
(Ord. 3029, passed 3-9-1987; Ord. 3688, passed 3-26-2007)
§ 35-23.5 HURLEY MODIFIED CONTRIBUTORY PLAN.
   (a)   General applicability. The provisions of the modified contributory
program shall apply to all Hurley Medical Center employees except for those
employees who elect, pursuant to §
35-23.3., to participate in the Hurley alternative pension plan or who elect
pursuant to §
35-23.2. to retain their existing retirement plan.
   (b)   Employee contributions. 
      (1)   Exempt Hurley employees shall contribute to the modified
contributory plan at the rate of 4.5% of the first $4,200.00 of their annual
compensation and 6.5% of all compensation paid in excess of $4,200.00.
      (2)   All other Hurley employees shall contribute to the modified
contributory plan at the rate of 7.0% of their annual compensation.
   (c)   Final average compensation. Final average compensation for modified
contributory plan members shall be determined by taking the average of their
richest annual compensation paid during any three years of their credited
service contained within their five years of credited service immediately
preceding the date that their employment with Hurley Medical Center terminated.
   (d)   Determination of straight life pension. Members of the modified
contributory plan shall receive a straight life pension which is the sum of the
following:
      (1)   For the first 15 years of service, the pension shall be computed by
taking 2.2% of the final average compensation times the years of service within
this range, not to exceed 15;
      (2)   For 16 through 25 years of service the pension shall be computed by
taking 2.4% of the final average compensation times the years or service within
this range, not to exceed ten; and
      (3)   For all years of service over 25 years the pension shall the
computed by taking 1.0% of the final average compensation and multiplying that
figure by the number of years exceeding 25.
   (e)   Plan administration.
      (1)   This plan shall be administered in accordance with the ordinances
governing the administration of the City employees’ retirement system.
      (2)   All other provisions of the retirement plan for the City retirement
system shall remain in full force and effect as modified by this section.
   (f)   Applicability. This section shall apply to all Hurley Medical Center
employees employed at the medical center as of January 1, 1987 and those who
hired in or retired after that date.
(Ord. 3029, passed 3-9-1987; Ord. 3491, passed 3-25-2002)
§ 35-23.6 TERMINATION AND TRANSFER OF PARTICIPATION IN THE RETIREMENT SYSTEM TO
THE MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM OF MICHIGAN OF CERTAIN HURLEY MEDICAL
CENTER PARTICIPANTS.
   (a)   Hurley Medical Center bargaining units, AFSCME Local 1973, AFSCME
Local 2056, AFSCME Local 814, AFSCME Local 825, Medical Technologists
Organization, RNRPHHMC Union, and Nurse Managers and Case Managers Organization
(collectively the “electing bargaining units” for purposes of this section),
agreed to terminate their membership within the retirement system as of July 1,
2004, and have their accrued benefits and membership transferred to the
Municipal Employees Retirement System (“MERS”) of Michigan. A retirement system
member who transfers to the Municipal Employees Retirement System of Michigan:
      (1)   Ceases to be a member of the retirement system effective July 1,
2004;
      (2)   Becomes a member of the Municipal Employees Retirement System of
Michigan effective July 1, 2004;
      (3)   Waives all of his or her rights to a pension, annuity, retirement
allowance, insurance benefit or any other benefit under the retirement system;
and
      (4)   Acknowledges and approves the transfer of the funded portion of the
present value of the accrued actuarial liability of his or her retirement
benefit in accordance with subsections (d) and (e) below.
   (b)   Hurley Medical Center employees who are not members of any bargaining
unit, and all vested former members, retirees or beneficiaries, shall be given
the right to make a one-time, irrevocable written election to opt out of the
retirement system and transfer to MERS, during a window period to be
established by Hurley Medical Center. By so electing, each employee, vested
former member, retiree or beneficiary:
      (1)   Ceases to be a participant in the retirement system effective on
the date of written election;
      (2)   Becomes a participant in MERS effective on the date of written
election;
      (3)   Waives all of his or her rights to a pension, annuity, retirement
allowance, insurance benefit or any other benefit under the retirement system;
and
      (4)   Acknowledges and approves the transfer of the funded portion of the
present value of the accrued actuarial liability of his or her retirement
benefit in accordance with subsections (d) and (e) below.
   (c)   The election right provided in subsection (b) above shall not be
provided to retirees who retired from an electing bargaining unit position
after July 1, 2004.
   (d)   An actuary shall determine the amount to be transferred pursuant to
subsections (a) and (b) above by using a methodology approved by the Board of
Trustees, the Board of Trustees of Hurley Medical Center and MERS. Hurley
Medical Center will compensate the retirement system for the cost of this
actuarial determination.
   (e)   For each retirement system member whose participation in the
retirement system terminates under subsection (a) or (b) above, the Board of
Trustees shall direct the custodian of the funds of the retirement system to
transfer to MERS the amount calculated pursuant to subsection (d) above.
   (f)   The retirement system shall have no liability with regard to the
actuarial calculations as set forth in subsection (d) above.
   (g)   The provisions of this section shall apply in the event other Hurley
Medical Center bargaining units subsequently elect MERS participation, except a
one-time window to opt out of the retirement system and transfer to MERS may
also be offered to retirees from the bargaining units who have not previously
been offered this opportunity.
   (h)   Any employee hired by Hurley Medical Center into a nonunion position
on or after September 1, 2008 shall participate in pension benefits provided
under MERS in accordance with MERS provisions and shall not be a member of the
retirement system.
(Ord. 3747, passed 1-12-2009)
§ 35-24 AGE AND SERVICE PENSION — FIREFIGHTERS.
   Upon his or her retirement, as provided in the retirement plan, a
firefighter member shall receive a straight life pension and he or she shall
have the right to elect to receive his or her pension under an option provided
in §
35-26 in lieu of a straight life pension.
   (a)   Effective July 1, 1976, his or her straight life pension shall be
equal to the sum of 2.4% of his or her final average compensation multiplied by
the number of years and fraction of year, of his or her credited service, not
to exceed 25 years, plus 1% of his or her final average compensation multiplied
by the number of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited service
which is in excess of 25 years.
   (b)   A firefighter member retiring between July 1, 1976 and December 12,
1976, may elect to receive his or her pension benefits in accordance with the
terms hereof, in lieu of a pension computed in accordance with the provisions
existing on the effective date of his or her retirement. The election shall be
filed with the Secretary of the system on or before May 1, 1977. In the event
of such election, the pension being paid the firefighter member shall be
recomputed in accordance herewith, a retroactive to the effective date of his
or her retirement.
   (c)   The rights and benefits provided under this chapter for a firefighter
member who transfers employment to another department of the City prior to the
attainment of ten years of credited service as a firefighter member, shall be
those provided for the position to which he or she transfers. In the event a
firefighter member who has ten or more years of credited service as a
firefighter member, transfers employment to another position with the City, the
member shall thereafter receive the benefits provided in this section for
firefighter members, notwithstanding that he or she is thereafter employed in
another department of the City.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2133, passed 6-23-1969; Ord. 2314, passed 2-
24-1969; Ord. 2446, passed 7-1-1974; Ord. 2476, passed 2-17-1975; Ord. 2558,
passed 6-14-1976; Ord. 2596, passed 4-11-1977)
§ 35-24.1 AGE AND SERVICE PENSION — POLICE OFFICERS.
   (a)   Upon his or her retirement as provided in the retirement plan, a
police officer member shall receive a straight life pension and he or she shall
have the right to elect to receive his or her pension under an option provided
in §
35-26 in lieu of a straight life pension.
   (b)   Effective July 1, 1974, his or her straight life pension shall be
equal to the sum of 2.4% of his or her final average compensation multiplied by
the number of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited service,
not to exceed 25 years, plus 1% of his or her final average multiplied by the
number of years, and fraction of a year, of his or her credited service which
is in excess of 25 years.
   (c)   Police Lieutenants and Captains bargaining unit members who have
vested under the provisions of the Lieutenants and Captains retirement plan/
benefit and then subsequently transfer to another position within the City that
has a different recognized bargaining unit or is designated a general member
not represented by a recognized bargaining unit and not employed by the Board
of Hospital Managers, shall, within 60 days of the transfer, any subsequent
transfers, or adoption of this section, elect in writing whether he or she will
become a member of the retirement plan/benefit available to him or her by
virtue of the transfer or whether he or she will continue to remain eligible to
retire under the provisions of the Police Lieutenants and Captains retirement
plan/benefit and continue to contribute the rate as may be required by the
collective bargaining agreement. In the event an election is not made within
the aforementioned 60 days, the employee will be considered a participant of
the retirement plan/benefit that is available to him or her by virtue of the
transfer.
(Ord. 2446, passed 7-1-1974; Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 3518, passed 9-
22-2003)
§ 35-25 DEFERRED PENSION.
   (a)   (1)   Should any person elected to the City Council or elected
District Judge of the 68th Judicial District who has eight or more years of
credited service or any other member who has 15 or more years of credited
service leave City employment prior to his or her voluntarily retirement age,
for any reason except his or her death, retirement or discharge for cause, and
does not withdraw his or her accumulated contributions from the employees’
savings fund, he or she shall be entitled to a pension as provided in §
35-23 if he or she is a general member, as provided in §
35-24 if he or she is a firefighter member, or as provided in §
35-24.1 if he or she is a police officer member, in either case as the
applicable section was in force at the time he or she left City employment. His
or her pension shall begin the first day of the calendar month next following
the month in which he or she files his or her application for same with the
Board of Trustees on or after his or her attainment of his or her voluntary
retirement age or at such time as he or she would have qualified for a pension
had he or she continued in the employment of the City. Unless otherwise
provided in this retirement plan, in no case shall he or she receive credit for
the period of his or her absence from City employment.
      (2)   As of the effective date of this section, and thereafter, should
any general member who is an elected official, an elected District Judge of the
68th Judicial District, or an appointee of those officials and has eight or
more years of service, or who is an employee not represented by a recognized
bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, and has ten
or more years of credited service leave City employment prior to his or her
voluntary retirement age for any reason except death, retirement or discharge
for cause, and does not withdraw his or her accumulated contributions from the
employees’ savings fund, he or she shall be entitled to a pension as provided
in §
35-23 as was in force at the time he or she left City employment. His or her
pension shall begin the first day of the calendar month next following the
month in which he or she files his or her application for same with the Board
of Trustees on or after he or she attains age 55. Provided, however, those who
were last hired prior to the effective date of this section and who have eight
or more years of credited service, if elected or appointed by those elected, or
who have 15 or more years of credited service may elect to begin his or her
pension on the first day of the calendar month next following the month in
which he or she files his or her application for the same with the Board of
Trustees at such time as he or she would have qualified for a pension had he or
she continued in the employment of the City. Unless otherwise provided, in no
event shall he or she receive credit for the period of his or her absence from
City employment.
   (b)   Until the date his or her pension begins, his or her balance in the
employees’ savings fund shall be accumulated at regular interest.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2206, passed 4-13-1970; Ord. 2277, passed 8-
9-1971; Ord. 2379, passed 1-29-1973; Ord. 2457, passed 10-7-1974; Ord. 2496,
passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 2628, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2905, passed 4-9-1984)
§ 35-26 PENSION OPTIONS.
   (a)   Prior to the effective date of his or her retirement, but not
thereafter, a member may elect to receive his or her pension as a straight life
pension payable throughout his or her life; or he or she may elect to receive
the actuarial equivalent of his or her straight life pension in a reduced
pension payable throughout his or her life, and nominate a beneficiary, in
accordance with the provisions of Option “A,” “B” or “C” set forth below. If a
member does not elect an option prior to the effective date of his or her
retirement, his or her pension shall be paid him or her as a straight life
pension. A straight life pension and Options “B” and “C” shall be subject to
subsection (b) of this section.
      (1)   Option “A.” Pension for ten years certain and life thereafter.
Under Option “A,” a retirant will receive a reduced pension payable throughout
his or her life with the provision that if he or she dies before he or she has
received on 120 monthly pension payments, the payments shall be continued for
the remainder of the period of 120 months to such person as the retirant shall
have nominated in written designation duly executed and filed with the Board of
Trustees. Upon commencement of benefits, the designated beneficiary may
nominate a survivor beneficiary by written designation duly executed and filed
with the Board of Trustees. If there be no such person surviving the retirant
the remaining monthly pension payments shall be paid to the estate of the last
to survive of the retirant and the named beneficiary.
      (2)   Option “B.” Joint and survivor pension. Under Option “B,” a
retirant shall receive a reduced pension payable throughout his or her life
with the provision that upon his or her death his or her reduced pension shall
be continued throughout the life of and paid to the person, having an insurable
interest in his or her life, as he or she shall have nominated by written
designation duly executed and filed with the Board of Trustees prior to the
effective date of his or her retirement.
      (3)   Option “C.” Modified joint and survivor pension. Under Option “C,”
a retirant shall receive a reduced pension payable throughout his or her life
with the provision that upon his or her death one-half of his or her reduced
pension shall be continued throughout the life of and paid to the person,
having an insurable interest in his or her life, as he or she shall have
nominated by written designation duly executed and filed with the Board of
Trustees prior to the effective date of his or her retirement.
   (b)   Upon the death of a retirant who is in receipt of a straight life
pension, or upon the death of the survivor of a retirant and his or her
beneficiary under the election of Option “B” or “C” provided in subsection (a)
of this section, and in the event that the death of the retirant, or the death
of the survivor of the retirant and his or her beneficiary occurs before there
has been paid in pensions an aggregate amount equal to the retirant’s
accumulated contributions standing to his or her credit in the employee’s
savings fund at the time of his or her retirement, the difference between his
or her accumulated contributions and the aggregate amount of pension payments
shall be paid to the person or persons as he or she shall have nominated by
written designation duly executed and filed with the Board of Trustees. If
there be no such designated person surviving the retirant the difference, if
any, shall be paid to his or her legal representative. No benefits shall be
paid under this subsection on account of the death of a retirant who elected
Option “A” provided in subsection (a) of this section.
   (c)   (1)   In the case of persons elected to the City Council, District
Judges of the 68th Judicial District, the City Administrator, appointees of the
City Council, appointees of the Mayor provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint, general members not represented by
recognized bargaining units not employed by Board of Hospital Managers, shall
within 60 days of election or appointment or within 60 days of the effective
date of this amendment, whichever shall last occur, and not thereafter, elect
the option of voluntary withdrawal of his or her own accumulated contributions.
Failure to elect this option within the specified time will preclude withdrawal
of his or her own accumulated contributions upon retirement. A member who
elects this option shall increase his or her personal contribution to the
retirement system from 6-1/2% to 10% of the gross compensation paid to him or
her by the City, effective with the election of this option for employees
thereafter elected or appointed as provided herein. A member who has elected
this option may at the time of application for retirement choose to have 25%,
50%, 75% or 100% of his or her accumulated contributions returned in a single
payment. The member’s pension shall then be reduced by the actuarial equivalent
of the accumulated contributions withdrawn as determined by the City’s
actuaries. The accumulated contributions for the member in the employees’
savings fund shall be reduced by the amount of the single payment.
      (2)   In the event a member elects the above mentioned option in
subsection (1), then upon refund of the employee’s accumulated contributions,
the employee shall receive regular interest at 1% per annum, compounded
annually on his or her accumulated contributions. “Regular interest” shall be
defined as set forth in §
35-6 hereof.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit an
employee who elects this option from electing other applicable options provided
in the retirement plan.
      (4)   The employee may also elect to cancel his or her decision to apply
for an annuity withdrawal option. In such a case, the employee forfeits the
right to withdraw his or her own accumulated contributions and shall not be
entitled to a refund of any excess contributions made by him or her for such
option during the period of his or her entitlement thereto.
   (d)   (1)   General members employed by the Board of Hospital Managers whose
retirement date is effective during the period from May 1, 1985 through
December 31, 1985, may elect at the time of application for retirement to have
25%, 50%, 75% or 100% of their accumulated contributions returned in a single
payment. The member’s pension shall then be reduced by the actuarial equivalent
of the accumulated contributions withdrawn as determined by the City’s
actuaries. The accumulated contributions for the member in the employees’
savings fund shall be reduced by the amount of the single payment.
      (2)   In the event a member elects the aforementioned option, then upon
refund of the employee’s accumulated contributions the employee shall receive
regular interest at 1% per annum, compounded annually on his or her accumulated
contributions. “Regular interest” shall be defined as set forth in §
35-6 hereof.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to prohibit an
employee who elects this option from electing other applicable options provided
in the retirement plan.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2904, passed 4-9-1984; Ord. 2959, passed 6-
24-1985; Ord. 3766, passed 5-24-2010)
§ 35-26.1 ACTUARIAL EQUIVALENCIES.
   Actuarial equivalence will be determined on the basis of the following
interest rates and mortality tables adopted by the Board of Trustees:
   (a)   Interest: for purposes of actuarial equivalency between the standard
form of payment (straight life pension) and the optional forms of payment
described in §
35-26, the actuarial equivalency interest rate of 6% per annum as set forth in
§
35-6. For purposes of determining the remaining amount of pension payable after
a member has withdrawn his accumulated contributions under §
35-26(c), the actuarial equivalency interest rate of 1% per annum as set forth
in §
35-26(c)(2).
   (b)   Mortality: 1971 group annuity mortality table with a 90% unisex blend.
      Actuarial assumptions that well be used to determine the amount or level
of any option benefit forms will be the actuarial equivalent of the normal
retirement benefit. Optional benefits provided under the plan shall be
actuarially adjusted in relation to the straight life annuity in accordance
with IRC § 415(B)(2), as amended, which is incorporated by reference. The
actuarial early retirement reduction and reduction of the dollar limit if the
employee has less than ten (10) years of participation under IRC § 415 do not
apply to income received as a pension or annuity as a result of an employee’s
personal injury, sickness or death and shall be administered in accordance with
IRC § 415(B)(2), as amended.
      In the event of a change in these actuarial assumptions as applicable to
any member, actuarially equivalent benefits for affected members after the date
of such change shall be the greater of a. or b. below:
         a.   The actuarial equivalent of the benefit accrued to the date of
change, based upon the member’s final average compensation and credited service
(both determined as of the date of change) and the provisions of the retirement
ordinance as of the date of change, including the actuarial equivalency factors
prior to the date of change; or
         b.   The actuarial equivalent of a benefit based upon all final
average compensation and credited service determined as of the date of
calculation after the amendment, and based upon the terms of the retirement
ordinance after the amendment applying the new actuarial equivalency factors.
(Ord. 3297, passed 5-22-1995; Ord. 3815, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 35-27 RETIREMENT FOR TOTAL AND PERMANENT DISABILITY.
   (a)   Upon the application of a member, or his or her personal
representative or department head on behalf of the member, a member who:
      (1)   Is in City employment;
      (2)   Has ten or more years of credited service; and
      (3   Becomes totally and permanently incapacitated for duty in the employ
of the City, by reason of a personal injury or disease, may be retired by the
Board of Trustees; provided, that after a medical examination of the member,
made by or under the direction of the medical director, the medical director
certifies in writing to the Board of Trustees:
         a.   That the member is mentally or physically totally incapacitated
for duty in the employ of the City;
         b.   That his or her incapacity will probably be permanent; and
         c.   That the member should be retired;
provided further, that the report of the Medical Director is concurred in by
the Board of Trustees. Upon his or her retirement the member shall receive a
disability pension provided in §
35-28 if he or she is a general member, or as provided in §
35-29 if he or she is a police officer or firefighter member.
   (b)   The ten or more years of credited service requirements contained in
subsection (a) of this section shall be waived for a member if the Board of
Trustees finds:
      (1)   His or her total and permanent incapacity is the natural and
proximate result of a personal injury or disease arising out of and in the
course of his or her actual performance of duty in the employ of the City; and
      (2)   He or she is in receipt of workers’ compensation on account of such
total and permanent incapacity.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-28 DISABILITY PENSION — GENERAL MEMBER.
   (a)   Upon his or her retirement or account of disability, as provided in §
35-27, a general member shall receive a straight life disability pension
computed according to §
35-27, a general member shall receive straight life disability pension computed
according to §
35-23. Upon termination of his or her workers’ compensation, if any, arising on
account of his or her City employment or at his or her attainment of age 60
years, whichever occurs first, he or she shall be given service credit for the
period he or she was in receipt of workers’ compensation and at that time his
or her straight life disability pension shall be recomputed to include the
additional service credit. His or her straight life disability pension shall
not be less than 15% of his or her final average compensation and shall be
subject to §
35-30.
   (b)   Upon his or her retirement, a general member shall have the right to
elect to receive his or her disability pension under an option provided in §
35-26 in lieu of a straight life disability pension, subject to the condition
that if any benefits are paid or payable under §
35-32 on account of his or her death no benefits shall be paid to his or her
beneficiary under Option “B” or “C.”
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2206, passed 4-13-1970; Ord. 2496, passed 5-
19-1975)
§ 35-29 DISABILITY PENSION — POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   (a)   Effective January 1, 1970, upon his or her retirement on account of
disability, as provided in §
35-27, a police officer member shall receive a straight life disability pension
computed according to §
35-24.1, or a firefighter member shall receive a straight life disability
pension computed according to §
35-24. Upon termination of a firefighter member’s workers’ compensation period,
if any, arising on account of his or her City employment, or his or her
attainment of age 55 years, whichever occurs first, he or she shall be given
service credit for the period he or she was in receipt of workers’ compensation
and at that time his or her straight life disability pension shall be
recomputed to include the additional service credit. A police officer or
firefighter member’s disability pension shall not be less than 20% of his or
her final average compensation and shall be subject to §§
35-30 and
35-33.
   (b)   Effective January 1, 1970, in the event a police officer member
retires on account of disability, as provided in §
35-27, and the Board finds:
      (1)   His or her total and permanent disability is the natural and
proximate result of a personal injury or disease arising out of and in the
course of his or her actual performance of duty in the employ of the City; and
      (2)   He or she is in receipt of workers’ compensation on account of such
total and permanent disability, he or she shall receive a straight life pension
equal to 50% of his or her final average compensation in lieu of the pension
provided in subsection (a) of this section. His or her disability pension shall
be subject to §§
35-30 and
35-33.
   (c)   Effective January 1, 1970, prior to the date of his or her retirement
a police officer or firefighter member may elect to receive his or her
disability pension, provided in subsection (a) or (b) of this section, under an
option provided in §
35-26 in lieu of a straight life pension; provided, that if any benefits are
paid or payable under §§
35-31 and
35-31.1 on account of his or her death no benefits shall be paid to his or her
beneficiary under Option “B” or “C” provided in §
35-26.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2206, passed 4-13-1970; Ord. 2496, passed 5-
19-1975)
§ 35-30 EXAMINATION OF DISABILITY RETIRANTS; RESTORATION OF DISABILITY RETIRANT
TO SERVICE.
   (a)   At least once each year during the first five years following the
retirement of a member with a disability pension, and at least once in every
three- year period thereafter, the Board of Trustees may, or upon the
retirant’s application the Board of Trustees shall require the retirant, if he
or she has not attained his or her voluntary retirement age, to undergo a
medical examination to be made under the direction of the Medical Director. If
the retirant refuses to submit to such medical examination in any such period,
his or her disability pension may be suspended by the Board of Trustees until
his or her withdrawal of the refusal. Should the refusal continue for one year
all his or her rights in and to a disability pension may be revoked by the
Board of Trustees. If, upon such medical examination of a retirant, the medical
director reports to the Board of Trustees that the retirant is physically able
and capable of resuming employment with the City, and his or her report is
concurred in by the Board of Trustees, the retirant shall be returned to the
employ of the City and his or her disability pension shall be discontinued. In
returning the retirant to the City employment, reasonable latitude shall be
allowed the City in placing him or her in a position commensurate to this type
of work and rate of compensation at the time of his or her retirement.
   (b)   A disability retirant who has been or shall be restored to City
employment as provided in subsection (a) of this section, shall again become a
member of the retirement system and he or she shall contribute to the system at
the rate applicable to this membership classification. His or her credited
service at the time of his or her retirement shall be restored to full force
and effect. He or she shall be given service credit for the period he or she is
receiving a disability pension provided in the retirement plan if, within that
period, he or she was in receipt of workers’ compensation on account of his or
her total and permanent disability arising out of and in the course of his or
her employment; otherwise he or she shall not be given service credit for the
period he or she was in receipt of a disability pension.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-31 ORDINARY DEATH PENSION — GENERAL MEMBERS, POLICE OFFICERS.
   (a)   Any general member or police officer member who continues in the
employ of the City after he or she either has acquired 20 years of credited
service or has attained age 55 years and has ten or more years of credited
service may, prior to the date of his or her retirement, by written declaration
duly executed and filed with the Board of Trustees, elect Option “B” provided
in §
35-26, and nominate a beneficiary who has an insurable interest in the life of
the member, in the same manner as if he or she were then retiring pursuant to
the provisions of the retirement plan. At any time prior to his or her
retirement the same member may revoke his or her election of Option “B” and
nomination of beneficiary and he or she may prior to the date of his or her
retirement again elect Option “B” and nominate a beneficiary as provided in
this subsection. Upon the death of a general member or police officer member
who has an Option “B” election in force, his or her beneficiary shall
immediately receive a pension which is the Option “B” actuarial equivalent of a
pension computed according to §
35-23 if a general member, or according to §
35-24.1 if the member was a police officer member, in the same manner as if he
or she had retired the day preceding the date of his or her death,
notwithstanding that he or she might not have attained his or her voluntary
retirement age. If a general member or police officer member has an Option “B”
election in force at the time of his or her retirement his or her election of
Option “B” and nomination of beneficiary shall thereafter continue in force,
unless within 60 days preceding the date of his or her retirement he or she
elects to take his or her pension as a straight life pension or under another
option provided in §
35-26. No pension shall be paid under this subsection on account of the death
of a member if any benefits are paid or payable under §
35-32 on account of his or her death.
   (b)   Any general member or police officer member who continues in the
employ of the City after he or she either has acquired 20 years of credited
service, or has attained age 55 years and has ten or more years of credited
service, and in either case does not have an Option “B” election provided in
subsection (a) of this section in force, and dies prior to his or her
retirement while in City employment, and leaves a surviving spouse, or if no
surviving spouse, the individual designated as the beneficiary for purposes of
refund of contributions filed with the retirement system, the surviving spouse,
or designated beneficiary if there is no surviving spouse, shall receive a
pension computed according to §
35-23 if the member was a general member, or according to §
35-24.1 if the member was a police officer member, in the same manner as if the
member had retired the day preceding the date of his or her death,
notwithstanding that he or she might not have attained his or her voluntary
retirement age, elected Option “B” provided in §
35-26, and nominated a beneficiary who has an insurable interest in his or her
life. No pension shall be paid under this subsection on account of the death of
a member if any benefits are paid or payable under §
35-32 on account of his or her death.
   (c)   General members not represented by recognized bargaining units and
employed by the Board of Hospital Managers who are participants in the
contributory plan and have 15 or more years of credited service, or are in the
noncontributory plan and have ten or more years of credited service in a
pension and do not have an option by election provided in subsection (a) of
this section in force, and die prior to retirement while in City employment,
and leave a surviving spouse, or if no surviving spouse, the individual
designated as the beneficiary for the purposes of refund of contributions filed
with the retirement office, the surviving spouse shall receive a pension
computed according to §
35-32 in the same manner as if the member had retired the day preceding the
date of his or her death, notwithstanding that he or she might not have
attained his or her voluntary retirement age, elected Option “B” provided in §
35-26, and nominated his or her surviving spouse, or if no surviving spouse,
the individual designated as the beneficiary for purposes of refund of
contributions, filed with the retirement system. No pension shall be paid under
this subsection on account of the death of a member if any benefits are paid or
payable under §
35-32 on account of his or her death.
   (d)   General members not represented by recognized bargaining units and not
employed by the Board of Hospital Managers who have ten years or more of
credited service in a pension and do not have an Option “B” election as
provided in subsection (a) of this section in force, and die prior to
retirement while in City employment, and leave a surviving spouse, or if no
surviving spouse, the individual designated as the beneficiary for the purposes
of refund of contributions filed with the retirement office, the surviving
spouse shall receive a pension computed according to §
35-32 in the same manner as if the member had retired the day preceding the
date of his or her death, notwithstanding that he or she might not have
attained his or her voluntary retirement age, elected Option “B” provided in §
35-26, and nominated his or her surviving spouse, or if no surviving spouse,
the individual designated as the beneficiary for purposes of refund or
contributions, filed with the retirement system. No person shall be paid under
this subsection on account of the death of a member if any benefits are paid or
payable under §
35-32 on account of his or her death.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 1889, passed 3-21-1966; Ord. 2314, passed 3-
13-1972; Ord. 2370, passed 12-11-1972; Ord. 2446, passed 7-1-1974; Ord. 2496,
passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 3238, passed 7-12-1993; Ord. 3243, passed 8-9-1993)
§ 35-31.1 ORDINARY DEATH PENSION — FIREFIGHTERS.
   (a)   Any firefighter member who continues in the employ of the City after
he or she either has acquired 15 years of credited service, or has attained age
55 years and has ten or more years of credited service, may, prior to the date
of his or her retirement, by written declaration duly executed and filed with
the Board of Trustees, elect Option “B” provided in §
35-26, and nominate a beneficiary whom the Board finds to be dependent upon the
member for at least 50% of his or her financial support, in the same manner as
if he or she were then retiring pursuant to the provisions of the retirement
plan. At any time prior to his or her retirement the firefighter member may
revoke his or her election of Option “B” and the nomination of a beneficiary
and he or she may prior to the date of his or her retirement again elect Option
“B” and nominate a beneficiary as provided in this subsection. Upon the death
of a firefighter member who has an Option “B” election provided in this
subsection in force, his or her beneficiary shall immediately receive a pension
computed according to §
35-24, in the same manner as if he or she had retired the day preceding the
date of his or her death, notwithstanding that he or she might not have
attained his or her voluntary retirement age. If a firefighter member has an
Option “B” election in force at the time of his or her retirement, his or her
election of Option “B” and nomination of beneficiary shall thereafter continue
in force, unless within 60 days preceding the date of his or her retirement he
or she elects to take his or her pension under Option “A” or “C” provided in §
35-26. No pension shall be paid under this subsection on account of the death
of a firefighter member if any benefits are paid or payable under §
35-26 on account of his or her death.
   (b)   Any firefighter member who continues in the employ of the City after
he or she either has acquired 15 years of credited service, or has attained age
55 years and has ten or more years of credited service, and in either case does
not have an Option “B” election provided in subsection (a) of this section in
force, and dies prior to this retirement, and leaves a widow, or in the case of
a female member leaves a widower whom the Board of Trustees finds to be
disabled to such an extent that he or she is dependent upon the female member
for at least 50% of his or her financial support, the widow or widower shall
receive a pension, computed according to §
35-32, in the same manner as if the member had retired the day preceding the
date of his or her death, notwithstanding that he or she might not have
attained voluntary retirement age, elected Option “B” provided in §
35-26, and nominated his or her widow or widower as beneficiary. No pension
shall be paid under this subsection on account of the death of a member if any
benefits are paid or payable under §
35-32 on account of his or her death.
(Ord. 2314, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2558, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 35-32 DEATH IN THE LINE OF DUTY — GENERAL MEMBERS, POLICE OFFICERS.
   In the event a general member or police officer member dies as a result of a
personal injury or disease arising solely out of and in the course of his or
her employment by the City, and a disability retirant dies within a period of
three years from and after the date of his or her disability retirement and
prior to his or her voluntary retirement age as the result of the same injury
or disease for which he or she was retired, and in either case the death,
injury or disease resulting in death be found by the Board of Trustees to have
been the result of his or her actual performance of duty in the employ of the
City, the applicable benefits provided in this section shall be paid; provided,
that the pensions provided in subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section
shall be subject to the condition that workers’ compensation is paid on account
of the same member or retirant; and provided further, that the pensions shall
be subject to subsection (f) of this section and §
35-33.
   (a)   In the case of a deceased member, his or her accumulated contributions
standing to his or her credit in the employees’ savings fund shall be paid in
accordance with the provisions of §
35-34.
   (b)   A pension of one-third of the deceased person’s final compensation
shall be paid to his or her widow or her widower and shall terminate upon his
or her or her remarriage or death.
   (c)   If, in addition to a widow, or widower, the deceased person leaves an
unmarried child or children under the age of 18 years or age 21 years if a
full-time student as determined by the Board of Trustees, each such child shall
receive a pension of an equal share of one-fourth of his or her final
compensation. Upon any such child’s adoption, marriage, death or attainment of
age 18 years, or age 21 years if a full-time student as determined by the Board
of Trustees, whichever occurs first, his or her pension shall terminate and
there shall be a redistribution by the Board of Trustees to his or her
remaining eligible children under age 18 years, or 21 years, as the case may
be, if any.
   (d)   If the deceased person does not leave a widow or widower, or if his or
her widow or her widower dies or remarries before the youngest surviving
unmarried child shall have attained age 18 years or age 21 years if a full-time
student as determined by the Board of Trustees, his or her unmarried child or
children under age 18 years, or 21 years, as the case may be, shall each
receive a pension of one-fourth of his or her final compensation; provided,
that if there be more than two such surviving children, each such child shall
receive a pension of an equal share of one-half of his or her final
compensation. Upon the child’s adoption, marriage, death or attainment of age
18 years, or 21 years if a full-time student as determined by the Board of
Trustees, whichever occurs first, his or her pension shall terminate and there
shall be a redistribution by the Board of Trustees to his or her remaining
eligible children under age 18 years, or 21 years, as the case may be, if any.
In no case shall the child’s pension exceed one-fourth of the deceased person’s
final compensation.
   (e)   If there be neither widow, widower nor children eligible to receive a
pension provided in this section surviving the deceased person, there shall be
paid to his or her dependent mother and dependent father, as the Board of
Trustees after investigation shall find to have been actually dependent upon
him or her for financial support due to physical or mental disability, a
pension of one-sixth of his or her final compensation; provided, that in no
case shall the pension payable to either parent exceed $720.00 per year. Upon
the remarriage or death of any such parent his or her pension shall terminate.
   (f)   The total of the pensions provided in subsections (b), (c) and (d) of
this section payable to the survivors of the deceased person shall not exceed
$4,500.00 a year. As used in this section, the term WIDOW or WIDOWER means the
spouse of the person at the time his or her or her employment with the City
last terminated.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2314, passed 3-13-1972)
§ 35-32.1 DEATH IN THE LINE OF DUTY — FIREFIGHTERS.
   In the event a firefighter member dies as a result of a personal injury or
disease arising solely out of and in the course of his or her employment by the
City, or a disability retirant dies within a period of three years from and
after the date of his or her disability retirement and prior to his or her
voluntary retirement age as the result of the same injury or disease for which
he or she was retired, and in either case the death, injury or disease
resulting in death be found by the Board of Trustees to have been the result of
his or her actual performance of duty in the employ of the City, the applicable
benefits provided in this section shall be paid; provided, that the pensions
provided in subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section shall be subject
to the condition that workers’ compensation is paid on account of the same
member or retirant; and provided further, that the pensions shall be subject to
subsection (f) of this section and §
35-33.
   (a)   In the case of a deceased member, his or her accumulated contributions
standing to his or her credit in the employees’ savings fund shall be paid in
accordance with the provisions of §
35-34.
   (b)   A pension of 40% of the deceased person’s final compensation shall be
paid to his or her widow and shall terminate upon her remarriage or death.
   (c)   If, in addition to a widow, the deceased person leaves an unmarried
child or children under the age of 18 years or age 21 years if a full-time
student as determined by the Board of Trustees, each such child shall receive a
pension of an equal share of one-fourth of his or her final compensation. Upon
the child’s adoption, marriage, death or attainment of age 18 years, or age 21
years if a full-time student as determined by the Board of Trustees, whichever
occurs first, his or her pension shall terminate and there shall be a
redistribution by the Board of Trustees to his or her remaining eligible
children under age 18 years, or 21 years, as the case may be, if any.
   (d)   If the deceased person does not leave a widow, or if his or her widow
remarries before the youngest surviving unmarried child shall have attained age
18 years or age 21 years if a full-time student as determined by the Board of
Trustees, his or her unmarried child or children under age 18 years, or 21
years, as the case may be, shall each receive a pension of one-fourth of his or
her final compensation; provided, that if there be more than two such surviving
children, each such child shall receive a pension of an equal share of one-half
of his or her final compensation. Upon the child’s adoption, marriage, death or
attainment of age 18 years, or 21 years if a full-time student as determined by
the Board of Trustees, whichever occurs first, his or her pension shall
terminate and there shall be a redistribution by the Board of Trustees to his
or her remaining eligible children under age 18 years, or 21 years, as the case
may be, if any. In no case shall the child’s pension exceed one-fourth of the
deceased person’s final compensation.
   (e)   If there be neither widow nor children eligible to receive a pension
provided in this section surviving the deceased person there shall be paid to
his or her dependent mother and dependent father, as the Board of Trustees
after investigation shall find to have been actually dependent upon him or her
for financial support due to physical or mental disability, a pension of one-
sixth of his or her final compensation. Upon the remarriage or death of any
such parent his or her pension shall terminate.
   (f)   The total of the pensions provided in subsections (b), (c) and (d) of
this section payable to the survivors of the deceased person shall not exceed
$7,000.00 a year. As used in this section, the term WIDOW means the spouse of
the person at the time his or her employment with the City last terminated.
(Ord. 2314, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2558, passed 6-14-1976)
§ 35-33 OFFSET OF WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS AGAINST PENSIONS.
   Any workers’ compensation which may be paid or payable to a member, retirant
or beneficiary, on account of the death of a member or a retirant, or on
account of the disability retirement of a police officer member as provided in
§
35-27, shall be offset against any pensions payable by the retirement system on
account of the death or disability. Effective July 1, 1975, there shall be no
workers’ compensation offset against pension benefits payable to the
beneficiaries of a firefighter member because of the death of the member as a
result of an injury or illness arising out of and in the course of his or her
employment.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2206, passed 4-13-1970; Ord. 2558, passed 6-
14-1976)
§ 35-34 REFUNDS OF ACCUMULATED CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (a)   If a member ceases to be an employee of the City before he or she has
satisfied the age and service requirements for retirement provided in §
35-21, he or she shall be paid his or her accumulated contributions standing to
his or her credit in the employee savings fund upon his or her demand in
writing on a form furnished by the Board of Trustees.
   (b)   Upon the death of a member and no pension, except as provided in §
35-32, becomes or will become payable on account of his or her death, his or
her accumulated contributions standing to his or her credit in the employee
savings fund at the time of his or her death shall be paid to such person as he
or she shall have nominated by written designation duly executed and filed with
the Board of Trustees. If there is no such person surviving the member, his or
her accumulated contributions shall be paid to his or her legal representative.
   (c)   Payment of refunds of accumulated contributions may be made in
installments according to such regulations as the Board of Trustees may from
time to time adopt.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-34.1 ELIGIBLE ROLLOVER DISTRIBUTIONS.
   (a)   This section applies to distributions made on or after January 1,
1993. Notwithstanding any provision of the retirement ordinance to the contrary
that would limit a distributee’s election under this subsection, a distributee
may elect, at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Board of Trustees,
to have any portion of an eligible rollover distribution paid directly, as a
direct rollover, to an eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee.
The following definitions shall apply with regard to this subsection.
      (1)   ELIGIBLE ROLLOVER DISTRIBUTION. An ELIGIBLE ROLLOVER DISTRIBUTION
is any distribution of all or a portion of the balance to the credit of the
distributee, except an eligible rollover distribution does not include: (i) any
distribution that is one of a series of substantially equal periodic payments
not less frequently than annually made for the life (or life expectancy) of the
distributee or the joint lives (or joint life expectancies) of the distributee
and the distributee’s designated beneficiary, or for a specified period of ten
years or more; and (ii) any distribution to the extent the distribution is
required under Internal Revenue Code § 401(a)(9) for purposes of the direct
rollover provision, a portion of a distribution shall not fail to be an
eligible rollover distribution merely because the portion consists of after-tax
employee contributions which are not includable in gross income. However, such
portion may be paid only to an individual retirement account or annuity
described in IRC § 408(a) or (b), or to a qualified plan described in §§ 401(a)
or 403(b) of the IRC, that agrees to separately account for amounts so
transferred, including separately accounting for the portion of such
distribution which is includable in gross income and the portion of such
distribution which is not so includable.
      (2)   ELIGIBLE RETIREMENT PLAN. An ELIGIBLE RETIREMENT PLAN means as
follows: (1) an individual retirement account described in IRC § 408(A); (2) an
individual retirement annuity described in IRC § 408(B); (3) an annuity plan
described in IRC § 403(a); (4) effective January 1, 2002, an annuity contract
described in IRC § 403(B); (5) effective January 1, 2002, an eligible plan
under IRC § 457 which is maintained by a state or political subdivision of a
state or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a
state and which agrees to separately account for amounts transferred into such
plan from this retirement system; (6) a qualified trust described in IRC § 401
(a) that accepts eligible rollover distributions; or (7) effective January 1,
2008, a Roth IRA, subject to the requirements of IRC § 408A(c)(3).
      (3)   DISTRIBUTEE. A DISTRIBUTEE includes an employee or former employee.
In addition, the employee’s or former employee’s surviving spouse or former
spouse who is an alternate payee under a domestic relations order is a
distributee with regard to the interest of the surviving spouse. Effective July
1, 2010, the non-spouse beneficiary of a member or former member also may be a
distributee with regard to the interest of the non-spouse beneficiary that is
directly transferred to an individual retirement account described in IRC § 408
(a) or an individual retirement annuity described in IRC § 408(b).
      (4)   DIRECT ROLLOVER. A DIRECT ROLLOVER is a payment by the retirement
system to the eligible retirement plan specified by the distributee.
   (b)   The retirement system will accept an eligible rollover distribution
for the purchase of credited service, and for the repayment of previously
withdrawn accumulated contributions. Upon receipt of sufficient documentation
that the plan from which a distribution is to occur is qualified in accordance
with applicable IRC provisions, the retirement system will accept a rollover
distribution from the following:
      (1)   An individual retirement account or annuity described in IRC § 408
(a) or 408(b) that is eligible to be rolled over and would otherwise be
includable in gross income;
      (2)   A qualified plan described in IRC §§ 401(a) or 403(a), including
after-tax employee contributions;
      (3)   An annuity contract described in IRC § 403(b), excluding after-tax
employee contributions; and
      (4)   An eligible plan under IRC § 457(b) which is maintained by a State,
political subdivision of a State, or any agency or instrumentality of a State
or political subdivision of a state. The retirement system shall provide a
separate accounting for any after-tax contributions received and earnings
thereon.
(Ord. 3318, passed 1-8-1996; Ord. 3590, passed 6-24-2004; Ord. 3816, passed 2-
16-2012)
§ 35-35 EMPLOYEE SAVINGS FUND.
   (a)   The employee savings fund shall be the fund in which shall be
accumulated, at regular interest, the contributions deducted from the
compensation of members and from which shall be made refunds and transfers of
accumulated contributions as provided in the retirement plan.
   (b)   (1)   From and after December 31, 1986, the member’s contribution to
the retirement system shall be:
         a.   For a police officer member, 6% of the compensation paid him or
her by the City;
         b.   For a firefighter member, 5% of the compensation paid him or her
by the City up to and including December 23, 1972, and 6.5% of the compensation
paid him or her by the City from and after December 24, 1972; and
         c.   For general members, the sum of 3% of the first $4,200.00 of his
or her annual compensation plus 5% of the portion, if any, of annual
compensation which is in excess of $4,200.00.
      (2)   Effective July 1, 1978 as to general members represented by Local
1600, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO,
6.25% of the compensation paid to him or her by the City, and as to general
members represented by Local 1799, American Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, 6.5% of the compensation paid him or her by the
City.
      (3)   Effective March 4, 1979, for general members allocated to level 22B
and below, not represented by recognized bargaining units and not employed by
the Board of Hospital Managers, 6.5% of the compensation paid him or her by the
City.
      (4)   Effective at the beginning of the first payroll period following
adoption of this amendment, the member’s contribution to the retirement system
shall be:
         a.   For general members appointed by the City Council, general
members appointed by the Mayor pursuant to Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter, general members elected to the City Council, general
members elected District Judges of the 68th Judicial District and general
members allocated to level 23 and above, not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers and not represented by a recognized bargaining units, 6% of the
compensation by him or her by the City; and
         b.   Effective March 4, 1979, 6.5% of the compensation paid him or her
by the City.
      (5)   For general members represented by Local 1973, American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, the sum of 3% of the first
$4,200.00 of his or her annual compensation which is in excess of $4,200.00 on
all earnings up to and including June 30, 1974, the sum of 4.25% of the first
$4,200.00 of his or her annual compensation plus 6.25% of the portion if any,
of annual compensation which is in excess of $4,200.00 on all earnings during
the period July 1, 1974 through June 30, 1985, and the sum of 5.25% of the
first $4,200.00 of his or her annual compensation plus 7.25% of the portion, if
any, of annual compensation which is in excess of $4,200.00 on all earnings
after July 1, 1975;
      (6)   For a general member not represented by a recognized bargaining
unit and employed by the Board of Hospital Managers from and July 1, 1976, the
sum of 3.3% of the first $4,200.00 on all earnings of his or her annual
compensation plus 5.3% of the portion, if any, of annual compensation which is
in excess of $4,200.00);
      (7)   For a general member represented by Local 825, American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, from and after July 1, 1976,
the sum of 5.25% of the first $4,200.00 of his or her annual compensation plus
7.25% of the portion, if any, of annual compensation which is in excess of
$4,200.00.
   (c)   The officer or officers responsible for making up the payroll shall
cause the applicable contributions provided in subsection (b) of this section
to be deducted from the compensation of each member on each and every payroll,
for each and every payroll period, so long as he or she continues a member of
the retirement system. When deducted, the contributions shall be paid into the
employee savings fund and shall be credited to the individual account of the
member from whose compensation the contributions were deducted. Every member
shall be deemed to consent and agree to the deductions made and provided for
herein. Payment of this compensation less the deductions shall be a full and
complete discharge and acquittance of all claims and demands whatsoever for the
services rendered by the member during the period covered by the payment,
except as to benefits provided by the retirement plan.
   (d)   In addition to the contributions deducted from the compensation of a
member, as hereinbefore provided, a member shall deposit in the employee
savings fund, by a single contribution or by an increased rate of contribution
and approved by the Board of Trustees, the amount, if any, he or she previously
withdrew from the employee savings fund, together with regular interest
compounded annually from the date of withdrawal to the date of repayment. In no
case shall any member be given credit for service rendered prior to the date he
or she withdrew his or her accumulated contributions until he or she repays to
the employee savings fund all amounts due the fund by him or her.
   (e)   Upon the retirement of a member, his or her accumulated contributions
shall be transferred from the employee savings fund to the retirement reserve
fund. At the expiration of a period of five years from the date an employee
ceases to be a member, any balance standing to his or her credit in the
employee savings fund shall be transferred to the pension reserve fund.
   (f)   Emoluments and rewards — police officers and firefighters. All rewards
and proceeds of gifts from any source and all emoluments that may be allowed by
the City Council on account of extraordinary service performed by police
officers and firefighters, who are members, shall be paid into the City
Treasury. This money shall be credited to the individual employee savings fund
account of the member to whom emoluments or rewards are given and shall in
other respects be treated as a contribution to the employee savings account of
the member.
   (g)   (1)   For classified employees not represented by bargaining units and
not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, effective July 1, 1986,
employees included in the above group allocated to pay levels 22E and below
shall have their individual employee contributions to the City’s retirement
system reduced from the rate in effect on June 30, 1986 by 4% of the
compensation paid by the City for the full 13 payroll periods following January
1, 1987; employees included in the above group and allocated to pay levels 23
and above, as well as appointive officers, shall have the option of having
their individual employee contribution to the City’s retirement system reduced
by 2% of the compensation paid by the City for the 13 full payroll periods
following January 1, 1987, or reimbursement not to exceed 2% of an employee’s
base wage in effect on July 1, 1986, towards purchase or computer equipment for
personal use to include hardware and/or software. The purchase shall be made
between July 1, 1986 and June 30, 1987, while employed by the City. Individuals
not employed for the full fiscal year shall be reimbursed on a pro rata basis.
Additionally, the employee shall agree that if he or she leaves the City’s
employ before the end of the fiscal year, he or she will have deducted from his
or her final pay an amount equal to one-twelfth of the reimbursement for each
month or portion thereof lacking of the one full year.
      (2)   Further, for classified employees not represented for the purposes
of collective bargaining and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers the
employees’ individual contribution to the City’s retirement system shall be 2%
of the compensation paid to the employee in any given year.
   (h)   The City agrees to the institution of a pension “pick-up” plan for
employees provided that the Internal Revenue Service approves such a pick-up;
and provided further that the pick-up approved by the Internal Revenue Service
will be limited solely to the employees not represented by a recognized
bargaining group and employed by the Hurley Board of Managers, hereinafter
known as exempts. If the Internal Revenue Service does not approve a pick-up
limited solely to the exempt employees, the pick-up will not be applicable. The
pick-up plan as set forth herein shall be instituted as follows:
      (1)   The employer shall pick up the employee contributions required of
exempt employees for all compensation earned after the effective date of this
provision. The contributions, so picked up, shall be treated as employer
contributions in determining tax treatment under the United States Internal
Revenue Code. Employee contributions picked up by the City, pursuant to this
provision, shall be treated for all other purposes, in the same manner and to
the same extent, as employee contributions made prior to the effective date of
this provision.
      (2)   The effective date of this provision shall be the date of approval,
implementation as soon as is practical. These employee contributions so picked
up shall not be included in gross income for tax purposes until such time as
they are distributed by refund or benefit payment.
      (3)   With respect to the plan amendment and the pick-up of employee
pension contributions set forth above, it is expressly understood and agreed as
follows:
         a.   The plan amendment is being adopted only for the purpose of
allowing employees to take advantage of IRS Code provisions which permit
government employees to tax shelter their pension plan contributions.
         b.   Salary before reduction for contribution will continue to serve
as the basis for determining the amount of salary related fringe benefits,
including retirement benefits.
         c.   The employer will maintain information which will permit
identification of the amount of employee contributions made before and after
the plan amendment. This is necessary in order to determine the extent to which
a pension plan distribution is taxable income to the employee at the time the
distribution is received.
         d.   The plan amendment is being accomplished by local agreement
rather than a change in State law.
      (4)   It is the intention of this provision that the above described
contributions be treated as picked up by the employer for purposes of Section
414(H)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, in that the two criteria for
the treatment are satisfied:
         a.   The employer hereby specifies that the above described
contributions, although specified as employee contributions under the
retirement system, are being paid by the employer to the retirement system in
lieu of contributions by the exempt employee; and
         b.   The exempt employee does not have the option of choosing to
receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them paid by the
City to the retirement system.
      (5)   It is the intention of the employer and the exempt employee group
that each exempt employee may, pursuant to Section 414(H)(2) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, exclude from gross income, for federal income tax
purposes, all of the contributions made by the employer to the retirement
system and that the contributions shall not be includable in the exempt
employee’s gross income until distributed or made available to the exempt
employee.
      (6)   The effect of this provision is that each exempt employee’s
compensation shall be reduced by the amount of the pension contribution which
would otherwise be required of an exempt employee under the provisions of the
retirement system and the employer will contribute this compensation reduction
to the retirement system. The compensation reduction is to be considered a part
of each exempt employee’s compensation for purposes of determining the
contribution which would otherwise be required of an exempt employee under the
provisions of the retirement system.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 1920, passed 7-7-1966; Ord. 2206, passed 4-
13-1970; Ord. 2370, passed 12-11-1972; Ord. 2496, passed 5-19-1975; Ord. 2583,
passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2628, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979;
Ord. 3024, passed 12-17-1986; Ord. 3038, passed 6-8-1987; Ord. 3059, passed 6-
27-1988; Ord. 3101, passed 7-10-1989; Ord. 3133, passed 4-23-1990; Ord. 3223,
passed 12-14-1992; Ord. 3273, passed 4-11-1994; Ord. 3304, passed 7-24-1995)
§ 35-36 RETIREMENT RESERVE FUND.
   The retirement reserve fund shall be the fund from which shall be paid all
pensions provided in the retirement plan. Should a disability retirant return
to the employ of the City, his or her pension reserve at the date of his or her
return shall be transferred from the retirement reserve fund to the employee
savings fund and the pension reserve fund in the same proportion as his or her
pension reserve was originally transferred from the funds to the retirement
fund.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-37 PENSION RESERVE FUND.
   (a)   The pension reserve fund is hereby created. It shall be the fund in
which shall be accumulated reserves for the payment of all pensions payable
from funds provided by the City. Upon the basis of such mortality and other
experience tables, and regular interest as the Board of Trustees shall from
time to time adopt, the Actuary shall annually compute the pension reserves:
      (1)   For pensions being paid retirants and beneficiaries; and
      (2)   Covering service rendered and to be rendered by members.
   (b)   The pension reserves shall be financed by annual appropriations, to be
made by the City Council and Board of Hospital Managers, determined according
to subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this subsection (b), subject to subsections
(c) and (d) of this section.
      (1)   The appropriation for members’ current service shall be a percent
of their annual compensations which will produce an amount which if paid
annually by the City during their future service will be sufficient to provide
the reserves, at the time of their retirements, for the portions of the
pensions to be paid them based upon the future service.
      (2)   The appropriation for members’ accrued service shall be a percent
of their annual compensations which will produce an amount which if paid
annually by the City over a period of years, to be determined by the Board of
Trustees, will amortize, at regular interest, the unfunded pension reserves for
the accrued service portions of the pensions to which they may be entitled.
      (3)   The appropriation for pensions being paid retirants and
beneficiaries shall be a percent of the annual compensations of members which
will produce an amount which, if paid annually by the City over a period of
years, to be determined by the Board of Trustees, will amortize, at regular
interest, the unfunded pension reserves for pensions being paid retirants and
beneficiaries.
      (4)   Each year following receipt of the report of the annual actuarial
valuation, the balance in the retirement reserve fund shall be set equal to the
actuarial present value of pensions being paid retirants and beneficiaries by a
transfer to or from the pension reserve fund. The pending transfer shall be
taken into account by the Actuary when making the actuarial valuation.
   (c)   The Board of Trustees shall report to the City Council, on or before
June 30 of each year, the amount of contributions to be made by the City and
Board of Hospital Managers. The City and Board of Hospital Managers shall
respectively appropriate and pay the amounts of contributions out of available
funds to the retirement system during the ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2967, passed 8-26-1985; Ord. 3495, passed 5-
28-2002; Ord. 3591, passed 6-24-2004; Ord. 3642, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35-38 EXPENSE FUND.
   Each year, when so requested by the City Administrator, the Secretary of the
Board of Trustees shall prepare a budget showing the estimated amounts
necessary for the administration of the retirement system during the ensuing
fiscal year. When adopted by the City Council, the budget shall be administered
and disbursed from the retirement fund of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2525, passed 10-27-1975)
§ 35-39 MANAGEMENT OF FUNDS OF SYSTEM.
   (a)   (1)   The Board of Trustees shall be the Trustees of the assets of the
retirement system. The Board of Trustees shall have full power to invest and
reinvest the assets subject to:
         a.   The terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions imposed by
law of the State upon domestic life insurance companies in the making and
disposing of their investments; and
         b.   The State law pertaining to the investments of public employees
retirement system assets.
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall have full power to hold, purchase,
sell, assign, transfer and dispose of any securities and investments in which
any of the money of the system has been invested, as well as the proceeds of
the investments and any money belonging to the system.
   (b)   There shall be kept on deposit available cash not exceeding 5% of the
total assets of the retirement system. All money and other assets of the
retirement system shall be held for the sole purpose of making payments
authorized by the provisions of the retirement plan and shall be used for no
other purpose.
   (c)   The description of the various funds of the retirement system shall be
interpreted to refer to the accounting records of the system and not to the
segregation of assets in the funds of the system.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-40 ALLOWANCE OF REGULAR INTEREST.
   All interest and other earnings on money and investments of the retirement
system shall be credited to the pension reserve fund. The Board of Trustees
shall, at the end of each fiscal year, allow regular interest on the members’
individual balances in the employee savings fund at the beginning of the fiscal
year; and on the mean assets credited to the retirement reserve fund. The
amounts of interest so credited to the employee savings fund and the retirement
reserve fund shall be charged to the pension reserve fund.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-41 ASSIGNMENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   The right of a person to a pension, to the return of accumulated
contributions, the pension itself, any optional benefit, and any other right
accrued or accruing to any member, retirant or beneficiary under the provisions
of the retirement plan, and any monies belonging to the retirement system shall
not be subject to execution, garnishment, attachment, the operation of
bankruptcy or insolvency law, or any law or any other process of law
whatsoever, and shall be unassignable, except that a member may make voluntary
assignment of his or her accumulated contributions to the municipal employees
credit union as security for a loan or loans; provided, that the City and
Hurley Medical Center shall have a right to set off from any member’s
accumulated contributions at the time of termination of employment, for any
money owed by the member to either Hurley Medical Center or the City, whether
from nonpayment of a debt to Hurley Medical Center or the City, for any
overpayment in final wages and fringe benefit payoffs made as a result of
termination of employment. Provided also, that the City and Hurley Medical
Center shall have the right to set off for any claim arising from embezzlement
by or fraud of a member.
   (b)   Any retirant or beneficiary may authorize to have deducted from his or
her pension those sums of money necessary to provide his or her membership in
any fund or plan acceptable to the Board of Trustees, provided that the
authorization to deduct is in writing and that notice of termination of the
deduction shall be given to the Board in writing.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2457, passed 10-7-1974; Ord. 2842, passed 7-
26-1982)
§ 35-42 CORRECTION OF ERRORS IN RECORDS.
   Should any change in the records result in any member, retirant or
beneficiary receiving from the retirement system more or less than he or she
would have been entitled to receive had the records been correct, the Board of
Trustees shall correct the error and as far as practicable shall adjust the
payment in such manner that the actuarial equivalent of the benefit to which
the member, retirant or beneficiary was correctly entitled shall be paid;
provided, however, that for errors discovered on or after July 1, 2009 a person
receiving more than he or she would have been entitled not as a result of non-
disclosure, fraud or misrepresentation shall not have the payments occurring
more than one year prior to discovery of the error considered in the
adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the person or the person through
whom that person is due benefits: (1) provided incorrect information which
caused the error, (2) failed to provide information that was necessary to
calculate the payment correctly, (3) caused the providing of incorrect
information or failed to provide necessary information, or (4) knew or
reasonably should have known that he or she was in receipt of an erroneous
payment, all such payments, including payments occurring more than one year
prior to the discovery of the error, shall be considered in the adjustment.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 3758, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 35-43 SUBPOENA ATTEMPT.
   The Board of Trustees, or its duly authorized representative shall have the
power to administer oaths and to subpoena witnesses to appear and testify or to
produce books and papers which relate to questions in dispute. Any person who
refuses to obey such a subpoena or who refuses to be sworn and testify or who
fails to produce books and papers touching upon any material matter, or any
witness party or attorney who is guilty of any contempt while in attendance at
any hearing held under the retirement plan, may be punished as for contempt in
court. For these purposes a court of competent jurisdiction, upon application
of the Board of Trustees or its duly authorized representative, shall compel
the attendance of witnesses, the production of books and papers and the giving
of testimony before the Board of Trustees by attachment for contempt or
otherwise in the same manner as the production of evidence may be compelled
before the court. No person, having taken an oath or made affirmation in the
proceeding, shall swear or affirm, willfully, corruptly or falsely. The
District Court is herewith given jurisdiction to try persons for false
swearing.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965; Ord. 2314, passed 2-24-1969)
§ 35-44 HEARINGS; FINDINGS; REVIEW OF BOARD ACTIONS.
   (a)   All questions arising under the retirement plan shall be determined by
the Board of Trustees. In case there shall be any controversy concerning
benefits or other rights of a member, retirant or beneficiary, the controversy
shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees and the Board of Trustees shall
conduct a hearing with relation thereto, at which hearing the City, Recreation
and Park Board, Board of Hospital Managers or other division of the City
government, and the member, retirant or beneficiary shall be entitled to be
heard and at which such proofs and evidence may be presented as the parties
shall desire. Parties before the Board of Trustees shall have the right to be
represented by an attorney at law.
   (b)   The findings of fact and factual determination made by the Board of
Trustees acting within its powers shall, in the absence of fraud, be
conclusive, but the Circuit Court for the County shall have the power to review
questions of law involved in any final decision or determination of the Board
of Trustees; provided, that application is made by a party within 30 days after
the decision or determination by certiorari, mandamus or by any other method
permissible under the rules and statutes of the court or the laws of this
State, and to make such further orders in respect thereto as justice may
require.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-45 WAIVER OF PRIVILEGE.
   Any beneficiary or claimant of benefits shall be required in applying for
the benefits to make full and complete disclosure as to all physicians and
others from whom he or she has received medical treatment, attention or
examination with respect to any injury or disease to a member involved in any
claim which may have relation to the claim for benefits, and similarly, shall
make further disclosure as to all hospitals or institutions at which the member
may have received any treatment or examination within a reasonable time, to be
determined by the Board of Trustees, prior to the application. The
beneficiaries or claimants in the application shall likewise execute a full and
complete waiver of any privilege with respect to any such records, treatments
or examinations that might otherwise accrue to the applicant or member. The
member or applicant shall, in addition, expressly consent that any person,
professional or otherwise, having knowledge of the condition of the member, or
the facts concerning the claim, may testify. In the event that any applicant or
member shall refuse to execute the waiver and consent, or shall refuse to
permit the production of the testimony or records, or shall conceal the
existence of the evidence from the Board of Trustees, he or she shall thereupon
forfeit any right to any benefit under the retirement system, excepting for a
refund of his or her membership contribution computed as otherwise provided in
this chapter. All applications for benefits shall be executed under the oath of
the applicant.
(Ord. 1860, passed 8-16-1965)
§ 35-46 INTERNAL REVENUE CODE QUALIFICATIONS.
   The retirement system is intended and has been administered to be a
qualified pension plan under § 401 of the IRC, as amended, or successor
provisions of law, including the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (TRA '86); the
Technical Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988 (TAMRA); the Unemployment
Compensation Amendments of 1992 (UCA); the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of
1993 (OBRA); the Uniformed Service Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of
1994 (USERRA); the Uruguay Round Agreements Act of 1994 (GATT); the Small
Business Job Protection Act of 1996 (SBJPA '96); the Taxpayer Relief Act of
1997 (TRA '97); the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of
1998 (RRA '98); the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001
(EGTRRA); the Job Creation and Workers Assistance Act of 2002 (JCWAA); the
Pension Fund Equity Act of 2004 (PFEA); the Pension Protection Act of 2006
(PPA); the Heroes Earnings Assistance and Relief Tax Act of 2008 (WRERA); and
related law, regulations and administrative authority. The retirement system is
a governmental plan under IRC § 414(d) and is administered for the exclusive
benefit of the plan’s participants and their beneficiaries. The retirement
system trust is an exempt organization under IRC § 501. The retirement system
shall operate and be administered so as to fulfill the purpose of maintaining a
tax-qualified retirement system.
(Ord. 3819, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 35-46.1 TERMINATION OF RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   In the event the retirement system is discontinued, terminated or partially
terminated, all members shall immediately become fully vested in their benefits
to the extent funded. The discontinuance or termination shall be carried out in
all respects in conformance with applicable statute, rule or regulation of the
Federal government or State of Michigan, or any duly constituted agency
thereof.
(Ord. 3297, passed 5-22-1995)
§ 35-46.2 BENEFIT LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   Maximum annual earnings. For plan years beginning on or after January
1, 1989 and before July 1, 1996, the annual compensation of each plan
participant taken into account for determining all benefits provided under the
plan for any determination period shall not include any amounts in excess of
the annual compensation limit (originally $200,008.00) provided for in IRC §
401(A)(17) prior to the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 and adjusted
for inflation in the manner provided by IRC § 401(A)(17). For plan years
beginning on or after July 1,1996, the annual compensation of each employee
taken into account shall not exceed the annual compensation limit provided for
in IRC § 401(A)(17), as amended by OBRA '93. This limit may be adjusted as
required by federal law for qualified government plans and shall be further
adjusted for inflation in the manner provided by IRC § 401(A)(17). Annual
compensation means compensation during the plan year or such other consecutive
12 month period over which compensation is otherwise determined under the plan.
The cost-of-living adjustment in effect for a calendar year applies to annual
compensation for the determination period that begins with or within such
calendar year.
   (b)   Defined benefit plans. The maximum permissible annual pension benefit
with respect to any member shall be in accordance with IRC § 415(B) which
provides that such annual pension benefits shall not exceed $90,000, as
adjusted for inflation, pursuant to IRC § 415(B) (the “dollar limit”).
      (1)   Special dollar limitations. If the benefit is payable prior to age
62, the dollar limitation shall be reduced to the actuarial equivalent of a
benefit commencing at age 62. In the case of any full-time public safety
employee, who is a qualified participant as defined in IRC § 415(B)(2)(G),
there is no reduction in the dollar limitation. If the benefit is not payable
until after age 65, the dollar limitation shall be increased to the actuarial
equivalent of a benefit commencing at age 65.
      (2)   In the case of an employee who has less than ten (10) years of
participation in the plan, the dollar limitation shall be reduced 1/10 for each
year of participation in accordance with IRC § 415(B)(5).
   (c)   Excess benefit payment. The retirement system shall not pay any
benefit that would exceed the benefit limitations for governmental plans as set
forth in IRC § 415 and regulations, as amended.
   (d)   Compensation. As defined by IRC § 415(C)(3)(D) and Treas. Reg. §
1.415-2(D)(2)(I), compensation means amounts actually paid to the employee
during the limitation year, including: wages, salary, professional fees,
percentage of profits, commissions, tips and bonuses paid or made available to
the member during the limitation year for personal services actually rendered
in the course of employment, any elective deferral, and any amount which is
contributed or deferred by the employer at the election of the employee and
which is not includable in the gross income of the employee by reason of IRC §§
125, 132(F) or 457.
(Ord. 3297, passed 5-22-1995; Ord. 3592, passed 6-24-2004; Ord. 3817, passed 2-
16-2012)
§ 35-46.3 DIVERSION OF ASSETS PROHIBITED.
   All assets of the retirement system shall be held and invested for the sole
purpose of meeting the legitimate obligations of the retirement system and
shall be used for no other purpose. No part of the assets shall be used for or
diverted to purposes other than for the exclusive benefits of members and
beneficiaries prior to satisfaction of all retirement system obligations.
(Ord. 3297, passed 5-22-1995)
§ 35-46.4 COMMENCEMENT AND PAYMENT OF PENSIONS.
   (a)   General rules.
      (1)   Distributions from the retirement system shall comply with the
requirements of IRC § 401(A)(9) and the regulations thereunder. A member’s
interest in the trust must begin to be distributed by the member’s required
beginning date, being the later of (I) April 1 of the calendar year following
the calendar year that the employee attains the age of 70-1/2, or (II) April 1
of the calendar year in which the member retires. With respect to distributions
under the retirement system made for calendar years beginning on or after
January 1, 2001, the retirement system will apply the minimum distribution
requirements of IRC § 401(A)(9) in accordance with the regulations under IRC §
401(A)(9) that were proposed in January 2001, notwithstanding any provision in
the retirement ordinance to the contrary. This amendment shall continue in
effect until the end of the last calendar year beginning before the effective
date of final regulations under IRC § 401(A)(9) or such other date as may be
specified in guidance published by the Internal Revenue Service.
      (2)   In the case of a distribution in the form of a joint and survivor
annuity, if the survivor beneficiary is not the member’s spouse, the method of
payment selected must assure that the periodic annuity payable to the survivor
annuitant must not at any time on or after the member’s required beginning
date, as defined above and in applicable Treasury Regulations, exceed the
applicable percentage of the annuity payment payable to the member using the
table prescribed in the applicable provisions of the Treasury Regulation §
1.401(A)(9)-6.
      (3)   Effective on September 8, 2009, the U.S. Department of Treasury
issued final regulations under IRC § 401(A)(9) to permit a governmental plan to
comply with the required minimum distributions rules of IRC § 401(A)(9) by
using a reasonable and good faith interpretation of the statute. The retirement
system shall be administered accordingly.
   (b)   Forfeitures.
      (1)   Upon a member’s termination date, the value of any forfeitable
accrued benefit shall be forfeited by the member as of the termination date.
The value of such forfeitures shall be used to reduce the employer’s future
contributions under the plan in accordance with IRC § 401(A)(8). No forfeitures
under the plan shall be applied to increase the benefits that any member or
beneficiary would otherwise receive at any time prior to the time when the plan
may be terminated. If a member whose employment has terminated does not retain
a vested benefit under the plan, he/she shall no longer be a member or retain
or earn credited service under the plan unless and until he/she again becomes
an employee.
   (c)   Forfeitabhjty of accrued benefits.
      (1)   An employee’s right to his/her normal retirement benefit is
nonforfeitable on the attainment of his/her normal retirement age as defined in
IRC § 411(A)(8) and in accordance with Rev. Rul. 66-11 and IRC § 411(E)(2). The
accrued financial benefits of each member and/or beneficiary of the retirement
system shall be a contractual obligation thereof, and shall not be diminished
or impaired as protected by Article IX, Section 24 of the State of Michigan
Constitution. In the event of termination or partial termination of the plan, a
member’s interest is nonforfeitable to the extent funded in conformity with
applicable sections of the Code and Treasury Regulations.
   (d)   Prohibition against reversion.
      (1)   The retirement system and trust have been created for the exclusive
benefit of the members and beneficiaries set forth herein. The funds thereof
have been established for the benefit of the members and for the operation of
the retirement system. No part of the principle and income of any of the funds
of the system and trust shall revert to or be returned to the City prior to the
satisfaction of all liabilities hereunder to all members, beneficiaries and
anyone claiming by or through them.
   (e)   Vesting.
      (1)   A member shall be vested in his/her accrued benefit in accordance
with IRC § 411(E) as in effect in 1974.
   (f)   Actuarial reports.
      (1)   Annually, or more frequently, the Board of Trustees shall obtain
actuarial computations from an enrolled actuary as to the contributions
necessary to fund the benefits provided by the plan on a reasonable basis in
accordance with any applicable regulations, and such actuary shall certify such
amounts to the employer. Contributions accumulated under the plan, along with
the earnings thereon, will be distributed in accordance with the terms of the
plan.
   (g)   Assignment of benefits.
      (1)   None of the benefits, payments, proceeds, claims, or rights of any
participant or their beneficiary hereunder shall be subject to execution,
garnishment, attachment, the operation of bankruptcy or insolvency law, or
other process of law, nor shall any participant or beneficiary have any right
to transfer, assign, encumber, or otherwise alienate any of the benefits or
proceeds which the participant may expect to receive, contingently or otherwise
under the plan, except as provided under a domestic relations order and in
accordance with Public Act 100 of 2002, as amended, being MCLA §§ 38.1681 et
seq., and Public Act 350 of 1994, as amended, being MCLA §§ 38.2701 et seq.
   (h)   Plan year.
      (1)   The plan year shall be the 12 consecutive month period commencing
on July 1 and each anniversary thereafter.
(Ord. 3593, passed 6-24-2004; Ord. 3818, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 35-46.5 UNIFORMED SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, contributions, benefits
and service credit with respect to qualified military service will be provided
under the retirement system in accordance with Section 414(u) of the Internal
Revenue Code. This section applies to all qualified military service on or
after December 12, 1994.
(Ord. 3594, passed 6-24-2004)
ARTICLE III. RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
§ 35-47 RESIDENCY WITHIN CITY REQUIRED.
   To be eligible for entry into the Classified Service of the City of Flint,
applicants for employment must establish residency within 20 miles of the
corporate limits of the City of Flint at the time of employment.
(Ord. 2932, passed 1-28-1985; Ord. 3453, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 35-48 “RESIDENCE” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESIDENCE. The location where a person maintains his or her actual domicile.
(Ord. 2932, passed 1-28-1985; Ord. 3135, passed 4-23-1990; Ord. 3453, passed 4-
10-2000)
§ 35-49 ENFORCEMENT; DEVELOPMENT OF CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING DOMICILE.
   The Personnel Department shall be charged with the enforcement of this
article and shall develop criteria for determining the actual domicile, which
shall include those matters which reflect permanence of residency as opposed to
a temporary situation.
(Ord. 2932, passed 1-28-1985; Ord. 3453, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 35-50 WAIVER OF RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   In exceptional circumstances the Personnel Department, with the approval of
the Mayor, may waive the residency requirement for a period of up to 120 days.
Waivers in excess of 120 days may be granted only by the City Council and only
for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2932, passed 1-28-1985; Ord. 3439, passed 7-26-1999; Ord. 3453, passed 4-
10-2000)
§ 35-51 REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS.
   Requests for waivers or extensions of the residency requirements shall be
made on forms supplied by the Personnel Department and must have the approval
of the appointing authority.
(Ord. 2931, passed 1-28-1985; Ord. 3135, passed 4-23-1990; Ord. 3439, passed 7-
26-1999; Ord. 3453, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 35-52 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS FOR LEVELS 23 AND ABOVE.
   (a)   All persons hired by the City of Flint into the Classified Service to
positions assigned to levels 23 and above, on or after September 23, 1984,
shall, as a condition of continued employment with the City of Flint, reside
within 20 miles of the corporate limits of the City of Flint. This condition
shall continue throughout his or her term of employment. Failure to establish
and maintain residency within 20 miles of the corporate limits of the City of
Flint, including any relocation of residency outside after obtaining
employment, shall result in action to vacate the employee from his or her
position and the termination of the employment relationship. The City Council
may waive this residency requirement for employment in the Classified Service
for good cause shown. Nothing contained within this subsection (a) shall apply
to positions covered by a collective bargaining agreement between the City of
Flint and a recognized exclusive collective bargaining agent.
   (b)   Employees who are not residents within 20 miles of the corporate
limits of the City of Flint may not be transferred or promoted to positions in
the Classified Service assigned to levels 23 and above, on or after September
24, 1984, except where the employee is otherwise agreeable to relocate and
thereafter maintain his or her residency within 20 miles of the corporate
limits of the City of Flint. The relocation shall occur within six months from
the date of promotion or transfer. Employees who do not live within 20 miles of
the corporate limits of the City of Flint may not be promoted or transferred to
positions in the Classified Service assigned to levels 23 and above, on or
after September 23, 1984, except where the employee is otherwise agreeable to
maintain his or her residency within 20 miles of the corporate limits of the
City of Flint. The City Council may waive this residency requirement for
employment in the Classified Service for good cause shown. Nothing contained
within this subsection shall apply to promotions or transfers to positions
covered by collective bargaining agreements between the City of Flint and a
recognized exclusive collective bargaining agent.
   (c)   Failure to establish residency within 20 miles of the corporate limits
of the City of Flint within six months as required by subsection (b), above,
will constitute noncompliance with the residency requirement and shall result
in action to vacate the employee’s position and the employee shall be treated
as if he or she or she failed to successfully complete his or her promotional
probationary period. Failure to maintain residency within 20 miles of the
corporate limits of the City of Flint after establishment as required by
subsection (b) above will constitute noncompliance with the residency
requirements and shall result in action to vacate the employee’s position and
the employee shall be deemed to have voluntarily terminated his or her
employment. A request for extension of the six-month period due to extenuating
circumstances may be approved by the Mayor up to 120 days. Nothing contained
within this subsection (c) shall apply to promotions to transfers to positions
covered by a collective bargaining agreement between the City of Flint and a
recognized exclusive collective bargaining agent.
(Ord. 3135, passed 4-23-1990; Ord. 3439, passed 7-26-1999; Ord. 3453, passed 4-
10-2000)
§ 35-53 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS FOR LEVELS 22E AND BELOW.
   (a)   All persons hired by the City of Flint in the Classified Service to
positions assigned to levels 22E and below, on or after July 1, 1990, shall, as
a condition of continued employment with the City of Flint reside within 20
miles of the corporate limits of the City of Flint. This condition shall
continue throughout his or her term of employment. Failure to establish and
maintain residency within 20 miles of the corporate limits of the City of
Flint, including any relocation of residency outside of the City of Flint after
obtaining employment, shall result in action to vacate the employee form his or
her position and termination of the employment relationship. The City Council
may waive this residency requirement for employment in the Classified Service
for good cause shown. Nothing contained within this subsection shall apply to
positions covered by a collective bargaining agreement between the City of
Flint and a recognized exclusive collective bargaining agent.
   (b)   Any employee who is required to maintain residency within 20 miles of
the corporate limits of the City of Flint either as a condition of employment
contained in a collective bargaining agreement or by reason of ordinance may
not hereafter be transferred or promoted to positions in the Classified
Service, levels 22E and below, except where the employee is otherwise agreeable
to continue to maintain his or her residency within 20 miles of the corporate
limits of the City of Flint. The City Council may waive residency requirements
for employment in the Classified Service for good cause shown. Nothing
contained within this subsection (b) shall apply to promotions or transfers to
positions covered in a collective bargaining agreement between the City of
Flint and a recognized exclusive collective bargaining agent.
   (c)   Failure to maintain residency within 20 miles of the corporate limits
of the City of Flint as required by subsection (b) above, will constitute
noncompliance with the residency requirement and shall result in action to
vacate the employee’s position and the employee shall be deemed to have
voluntarily terminated his or her employment. Nothing contained within this
subsection (c) shall apply to promotions or transfers to positions covered by a
collective bargaining agreement between the City of Flint and a recognized
exclusive collective bargaining agent.
(Ord. 3135, passed 4-23-1990; Ord. 3453, passed 4-10-2000)
§§ 35-54 – 35-61 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. UNIFORM PAY PLAN
§ 35-62 APPLICABILITY OF CLASSIFICATIONS OF PERSONNEL DIRECTOR.
   For the purpose of this article, the classifications and groupings of
classifications into respective levels as set up and adopted by the Personnel
Director from time to time, all in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter, shall control in the matter of applying and interpreting this article,
except as herein otherwise expressly provided.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977)
§ 35-63 COMPENSATION PLAN; PAYMENT SCHEDULE; CONTRACTS WITH BARGAINING UNITS.
   (a)   The salaries, wages and compensation to be paid by the City for
various types of services shall be in accordance with the schedules from time
to time adopted by the City Council and on file in the City Clerk’s office.
Except as herein or hereafter otherwise expressly provided, the salaries, wages
and compensation shall be paid from and after July 1, 1970.
   (b)   The annual rates set forth in such schedules shall be converted to
hourly rates in accordance with the provisions relating thereto contained in §
35-98 of this chapter, and shall be paid on a biweekly basis, not to exceed the
rates as set forth in the schedules.
   (c)   The City, through various agents, has and is negotiating with
recognized bargaining agents for its employees, in pursuance of the Public
Employees Relation Act, being Act 336 of the Public Acts of 1965, being MSA §§
32.223 and 32.224, as amended, certain contracts providing for compensation and
other terms and conditions of employment. The contracts which have been
negotiated and are reduced to writing may and the same shall be executed by the
appropriate City officials. The contracts, which either are in the process of
negotiation or will be negotiated in the future, shall be executed by the
appropriate City officials. The contracts, notwithstanding the provisions of
this chapter or any other ordinance of the City or the Charter of the City,
shall determine the compensation and other benefits provided therein for
employees of the City who are members of the bargaining units for which the
contracts were negotiated. The contracts are hereby directed to be filed with
the appropriate officials as a public records and are hereby adopted by
reference as a part of this Code.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2075, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 2261, passed 4-
19-1971)
§ 35-64 COMPENSATION SCHEDULES.
   The compensation to be paid officers and employees of the City shall be as
from time to time established in schedules by the City Council. The schedules
are not set out in this Code, but are on file in the City Clerk’s office.
§ 35-65 RESERVED.
§ 35-66 PART-TIME EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   A PART-TIME EMPLOYEE is defined as one who at the time of employment
and thereafter, is scheduled to work less than a normal workweek as defined in
§
35-71. Part-time employees shall be compensated for the number of hours worked
at an hourly rate computed in accordance with §
35-98, for the level to which their position is allocated. Part-time employees
shall be placed in the step to which their presently credited accrued service
entitles them and shall accumulate, for the purpose of advances in such steps,
credit for all hours worked from and after the effective date of this section.
   (b)   A part-time employee who shifts to full-time employment shall for the
purposes of determining the step in the schedule at which he or she is to be
compensated, have the total accrued hours worked during his or her previous
continuous employment with the City computed as of the date he or she commences
full-time employment. A new anniversary date based on the total number of
accrued hours as of the date full-time employment commences shall be
established for further advancement in the schedule.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2075, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 2261, passed 4-
19-1971; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977)
§ 35-67 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS’ SALARIES.
   The salaries to be paid by the City of Flint for services by appointive
officers shall be as follows:
   (a)   Category I. This category shall consist of professional appointments
to the positions of City Administrator, executive department heads and
professional members of the executive staff. Members of Category I shall be
entitled to receive salaries not to exceed the maximum salary payable at level
38 of the City of Flint compensation schedule for exempt employees as
maintained with the City Clerk in accordance with §
35-62 and §
35-63 hereof. The maximum salary payable to the City Administrator shall not
exceed the maximum payable at level 40 of the City of Flint compensation
schedule for exempt employees.
   (b)   Category II. This category shall consist of the appointed technical
and support staff of the Mayor’s office not covered in Category I hereof.
Members of Category II shall be entitled to receive salaries not to exceed the
maximum salary payable at level 22b of the City of Flint compensation schedule
for exempt employees as maintained with the City Clerk in accordance with §
35-62 and §
35-63 hereof.
   (c)   Category III. This category shall consist of the City Clerk and the
Ombudsman. The maximum salary payable to Category III employees shall not
exceed the maximum salary payable at level 38 of the City of Flint compensation
schedule for exempt employees as maintained by the Personnel Director and on
file with the City Clerk in accordance with §
35-62 and §
35-63 hereof.
   (d)   Appointive salaries. The salaries to be paid appointive officers shall
be at the sole discretion of the Mayor or other appointing authority, but in no
event shall it be more than the maximum set forth for the position.
   (e)   Initial salaries. The Mayor or appointing authority shall notify the
City Clerk by letter of the initial salary to be paid appointees and of any
subsequent changes thereto.
   (f)   Designations. Appointed and elected officials shall be considered
Category I regular employees for the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2007, passed 10-16-1967; Ord. 2022, passed
12-18-1967; Ord. 2368, passed 11-27-1972; Ord. 2383, passed 3-19-1973; Ord.
2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2896, passed 3-12-1984; Ord. 3373, passed 7-22-
1998; Ord. 3595, passed 6-24-2004; Ord. 3678, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 35-68 UNCLASSIFIED SERVICE PAY RATES; EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS FOR OMBUDSMAN’S
APPOINTEES.
   (a)   Pay rates for members of the Unclassified Service shall be as follows:
Board of Canvassers                               $60.00
Election Chairperson, per election                $110.00
Election Vice-Chairperson                         $96.00
Election inspectors, per election                 $86.00
Election supervisors, per election                $115.00
Election Commission members, mileage, per mile    $0.20
Election supervisors, mileage, per mile           $0.20
Election worker instruction meeting, per election $9.00
Transportation of election supplies, per election $5.00
Transportation of election devices, per election  $2.00
Board of Review members, per day                  $95.00
Casual skilled labor, per hour                    $5.25
 
   (b)   The Ombudsman may enter into individual employment contracts with his
or her appointees, in a form approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2187, passed 12-29-1969; Ord. 2228, passed 8-
17-1970; Ord. 2386, passed 3-26-1973; Ord. 2520, passed 10-13-1975; Ord. 2561,
passed 2-26-1976; Ord. 2801, passed 8-24-1981; Ord. 2892, passed 2-13-1984;
Ord. 2952, passed 5-28-1985; Ord. 3002, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 3054, passed 4-
25-1988; Ord. 3128, passed 2-26-1990; Ord. 3184, passed 10-28-1991; Ord. 3269,
passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3325, passed 2-12-1996; Ord. 3379, passed 7-27-1998)
§ 35-69 SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS.
   (a)   School crossing guards shall be entitled only to the pay and benefits
provided by this section.
   (b)   The hourly rate for school crossing guards effective August 23, 1993,
shall be as follows:
 
Criteria                  Rate
Beginning rate            $4.95
Completion of 2,080 hours $5.20
Completion of 6,240 hours $5.45
 
   (c)   School crossing guards participating in the City of Flint Retirement
System and Medical Insurance Program on or before the effective date of this
section may continue to participate on the same basis as they were
participating prior to the effective date of this section. Present employees
may choose at any time not to participate in these programs. Having once
withdrawn from either, they shall thereafter be ineligible from further
participation in those programs.
(Ord. 2892, passed 2-13-1984; Ord. 3018, passed 11-24-1986; Ord. 3255, passed
10-11-1993)
§ 35-70 CREDIT TOWARDS STEP ADVANCEMENTS.
   (a)   For each straight time hour paid from and after the last date of hire,
employees shall receive .1755 service credits. Total service credits shall be
used in determining eligibility for advancement in the compensation plan as
follows:
Service Credits Rate
Service Credits Rate
182.5           Second six-month
365.04          Second year
730.08          Third year
1095.12         Fourth year
1460.16         Fifth year
3650.4          First longevity
5475.6          Second longevity
7300.8          Third longevity
 
   (b)   Total service credits earned from and after last date of hire shall
also be used in determining eligibility for benefits provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2261, passed 4-19-1971; Ord. 2699, passed 2-
26-1979)
§ 35-71 NORMAL WORKWEEK.
   A normal workweek, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, is defined
as being 40 hours in a calendar week, or as established by a statement in
writing of the heads of departments or offices, for employees under their
jurisdiction. Copies of the statements shall be delivered to the Director of
Finance and the Personnel Director; provided, that normal workweeks established
by such written statement shall not exceed a total of 80 hours in any pay
period.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2075, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 2261, passed 4-
19-1971; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977)
§ 35-72 OVERTIME GENERALLY.
   (a)   Employees allocated to level 22B or below, who work in excess of eight
hours in any one 20-hour period or anytime in excess of 40 hours during a
calendar week, shall be paid overtime rates for such excess. The following
leave days shall be considered as time worked for the purpose of computing
overtime:
      (1)   Sick leave;
      (2)   Annual leave;
      (3)   Bereavement leave; and
      (4)   Leave for jury duty.
   (b)   Time spent by employees in court under subpoena as a result of their
employment shall be considered as time worked. All subpoena fees and mileage
received shall be paid to their supervisor, who shall in turn deposit the money
with the appropriate fiscal officer.
   (c)   All work over the normal workweek must be approved in writing by the
department head before being allowed. Overtime rates as herein provided shall
be compensation at the rate of one and one-half times that provided for
straight time.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2075, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 2166, passed 10-
13-1969; Ord. 2185, passed 12-22-1969; Ord. 2261, passed 4-19-1971; Ord. 2699,
passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 2929, passed 12-19-1984)
§ 35-72.1 EMERGENCY CALL-IN PAY.
   (a)   Whenever an exempt employee at level 22B or below is brought back to
work on emergency call- in, he or she shall be retained on duty for a minimum
of two hours at overtime rates.
   (b)   If the emergency work is completed in less than two hours, it shall be
the election of the employee to leave the job at the time the work is
completed. Employees making this election, however, shall be paid only on the
basis of time worked at overtime rates.
   (c)   This minimum two-hour call-in guarantee specifically excludes those
employees being paid stand-by pay. These employees will be paid solely on the
basis of time actually worked on call-in.
(Ord. 2207, passed 4-13-1970; Ord. 2929, passed 12-19-1984)
§ 35-73 APPOINTIVE OFFICIALS — FRINGE BENEFITS AND WORKING CONDITIONS.
   (a)   Category I and Category III appointees, as defined in §
35-67 hereof, shall be entitled to the same benefits and working conditions as
granted to exempt employees at level 23 and above as set forth in Articles IV
and V of this chapter.
   (b)   Category II appointees, as defined in §
35-67 hereof, shall be entitled to the same benefits and working conditions as
granted to exempt employees at level 22B and below, as set forth in Articles IV
and V of this chapter.
(Ord. 2900, passed 3-26-1984; Ord. 2929, passed 12-19-1984)
§ 35-74 NIGHT BONUS.
   City employees employed on any regular shift and who work a majority of
hours between 4:00 p.m. of the day and 7:00 a.m. of the following day, shall be
entitled to additional remuneration over and above that set forth in the
compensation plan at the rate of 6.5% per hour for time worked during the
shifts.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 35-75 EMPLOYEES EXEMPT FROM OVERTIME PROVISIONS.
   No employees allocated to levels 23 through 40 and no appointive City
officer shall receive any compensation for overtime, holiday premium pay or
bonus for night work.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2075, passed 8-26-1968; Ord. 2185, passed 12-
22-1969; Ord. 2316, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2699,
passed 2-26-1979)
§ 35-76 OVERTIME, HOLIDAY RATES AND NIGHT BONUSES NOT TO BE PAID FOR SAME WORK.
   Premium payments are not to be duplicated, i.e., overtime and holiday
premium pay and bonus for night work shall not be paid for the same hours
worked.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2261, passed 4-19-1971; Ord. 2263, passed 5-
10-1971; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977)
§ 35-77 ON-CALL OR STAND-BY EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   Employees may be kept on call during periods when they are not
otherwise on duty. An employee of a department may remain on stand-by at his or
her home for a one-week period, beginning at 5:00 p.m. each Monday. Stand-by
duty is to be rotated equally among employees qualified to do the work
available within the same job classification. For compensation, the employee on
such duty shall receive, at his or her regular rate of pay, nine hours extra
pay for each week of such duty, except that a classified employee not
represented by a recognized bargaining unit, not employed in the Police
Department, and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, allocated to
levels 23 and above shall receive, at his or her regular rate of pay, four and
one-half hours extra pay for each week of such duty. Additional benefits do not
accrue for stand-by duty.
   (b)   Departments may establish equivalent methods of payment for employees
who are on call for lesser periods of time, subject to the approval of the
appropriate administrative officials and with written approval by the Personnel
Director. Departments requiring that employees be kept on call during periods
when they are not otherwise on duty shall submit appropriate plans and/or
schedules for approval of appropriate administrative officials including the
written approval by the Personnel Director.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 3084, passed 1-
9-1989)
§ 35-78 RESERVED. 
§ 35-79 CHANGES IN COMPENSATION CAUSED BY RECLASSIFICATION OR REALLOCATION.
   When an employee shall have been placed in a different pay level by reason
of reclassification or reallocation of his or her position, in the event the
reclassification or reallocation results in a decrease in compensation, the
reclassification or reallocation shall be effective at the beginning of the
first full pay period following the date of change in classification or
reallocation. In the event the reclassification results in an increase in
compensation, the increase in compensation shall be paid at the beginning of
the pay period in which the change is made if the change falls during the first
week of the pay period. If the change falls during the second week of a pay
period, the increase will be paid with the beginning of the next pay period.
Provided, however, the increase may be paid at the outset of the next fiscal
year, retroactively, at the discretion of the appropriate fiscal officer. It
shall be the duty of the Personnel Director to forthwith notify the appropriate
fiscal officer of all such changes and the effective date of the changes.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2699, passed 2-
26-1979)
§ 35-80 INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICIALS, APPOINTEES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   The City shall indemnify and hold harmless persons who have been and/
or are employed as members of the City Council, Judges of the 68th Judicial
District, appointees of the Judges of the 68th Judicial District, the City
Administrator, appointees of the City Administrator, appointees of the City
Council, Ombudsman, appointees of the Ombudsman, the Mayor, and appointees of
the Mayor provided for in Sections
4-202 and
4-203 of the Charter of the City of Flint, and private citizens appointed to
multiple member bodies, and other employees of the City of Flint whenever any
claim is made or any civil action is instituted against the individual arising
out of the good faith performance, purported performance or failure of
performance of duties while in the course of his or her employment, and while
acting within the scope of his or her authority.
   (b)   The City retains the right to compromise, settle and pay the claim(s)
before or after the commencement of any civil action.
   (c)   Whenever any order, opinion or judgment for damages, excluding
punitive damages, is awarded as against the individual being indemnified as the
result of any civil action for personal injuries, property damage, or other
damages allegedly caused by the individual while in the course of his or her
service or employment, and while acting within the scope of his or her
authority, the City shall indemnify the individual and/or shall pay, settle or
compromise the order, opinion or judgment.
   (d)   The Chief Legal Officer, pursuant to the Officer’s duties as set forth
in the Flint City Charter, shall retain the right to make the selection of the
attorney or attorneys to represent the individual being indemnified in all
cases.
   (e)   The City will notify the individual being indemnified prior to final
settlement of litigation where the individual is a named party.
   (f)   The City shall hold the individual being indemnified harmless from any
expenses connected with the defense, settlement or monetary judgments from the
actions, claims or proceedings.
   (g)   This section shall cover all alleged acts for which the statute of
limitations has yet to run.
(Ord. 3560, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 35-81 INSURANCE.
   (a)   Life insurance. 
      (1)   Except as herein otherwise provided, the appropriate City officials
are authorized to purchase group life insurance and dismemberment policy in the
following amounts. As to:
         a.   Elected officials and appointive officers, $100,000.00;
         b.   Classified employees not represented by recognized bargaining
units and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers allocated to levels 23
and above, $75,000.00; and
         c.   Classified employees not represented by a recognized bargaining
unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers allocated to levels 22E
and below, $35,000.00; with double indemnity in the event of accidental death,
pursuant to the master policy which shall be on file in the office of the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Employees may designate a beneficiary on this insurance policy by
completing the appropriate form in the office of the Director of Finance. In
the event no beneficiary is designated, proceeds from the policy shall be paid
in accordance with MSA § 17.277(10). Group life insurance coverage shall be
continued in force for any employee who is on leave of absence without pay for
a period not to exceed six months. Employees who retire after being employed a
sufficient number of years to qualify for retirement under the provisions of §§
35-6 through
35-45 of this Code, as amended, and the various retirement and pension plans
therein provided, shall receive life insurance in the amount of $5,000.00;
except that classified employees not represented by a collective bargaining
agent in a collective bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers who retire on or after July 1, 1994, as provided hereinabove, shall
receive life insurance in the amount of $30,000.00.
      (3)   Employees who are not members of a recognized bargaining unit, and
who are not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, participating in the
City of Flint Defined Contribution Pension Plan shall be entitled to receive
the $30,000.00 retiree life insurance benefit provided they were hired prior to
October 1, 1983 and have at least 25 years of credited service or were hired
prior to or after October 1, 1983, and have attained the age of 55 with at
least ten years of credited service. Employees hired after the effective date
of this chapter shall not be entitled to retiree life insurance.
   (b)   Health-dental insurance. 
      (1)   a.   Appropriate City officials are authorized to enter into an
agreement to provide medical, dental and hospitalization coverage for the
Mayor, appointive officers and classified employees not represented by
recognized bargaining units and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers
either allocated to levels 22E and below or to level 23 and above, and in
accordance with the City’s benefit plan document as established from time to
time by City Council.
         b.   For employees retiring subsequent to the effective date of this
section with a pension payable in accordance with §§
35-6 through
35-45 hereof, except for any period during which retirement is deferred and
except for any period during which he or she may be eligible for
hospitalization coverage through a subsequent employer, coverage shall be
maintained to attainment of age 65. As to employees electing to participate in
the deferred compensation plan established by resolution adopted by the City
Council, the coverage shall be maintained for the period commencing with the
attainment of “voluntary retirement age,” as defined in §
35-6 of this Code, to attainment of age 65 years except during any period he or
she may be eligible for hospitalization coverage through a subsequent employer.
         c.   Employees retiring before January 1, 2004, may for any period
during which retirement is deferred whether the employee is a member of the
general retirement system or the deferred compensation plan, the retiree may,
by making cash payment of the total cost of the coverage to the
finance office, elect to maintain his or her dental, medical and
hospitalization coverage as same as is in effect for City employees. The
employee may elect to maintain such coverage at the time of deferred
retirement, and the coverage shall be permanently terminated for any retiree
who fails to make the payment on or before the fifteenth day of the month prior
to the coverage month.
      (2)   a.   Employees not represented by recognized bargaining units and
employed by the Board of Hospital Managers shall have, upon retirement, except
for any period during which retirement is deferred and except for any period
during which he or she may be eligible for hospitalization coverage through a
subsequent employer, coverage maintained to attainment of age 65.
         b.   Commencing at age 65 the coverage to be provided shall be
Medicare Supplementary. This coverage shall be continued for the employee
following retirement.
         c.   Employees not represented by recognized bargaining units and
employed by the Board of Hospital Managers who are hired, promoted, or
transferred into an exempt classification after March 1, 1989, upon retirement,
receive health insurance continuation benefits paid for by the Hurley Medical
Center at rates established by the Board of Hospital Managers. The retiree
shall be responsible for payment of the difference between the Hurley Medical
Center’s payment and the health insurance premium charge, if any.
      (3)   A hospitalization benefit shall be provided to employees who are
not members of a recognized bargaining unit, and are not employed by the Board
of Hospital Managers, hired prior to October 1, 1983 with at least 25 years of
credited service, or who were hired prior to or after October 1, 1983, who have
attained the age of 55 with at least ten years of credited service. The
benefits shall be equivalent to the coverage which was in effect at the time of
separation of employment. Employees, who are not members of a recognized
bargaining unit, and are not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, hired
after the effective date of this chapter, shall be eligible for hospitalization
benefits upon retiring only if they have attained the age of 55 with 25 years
of credited service.
         a.   An employee who is not a member of a recognized bargaining unit,
and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, and their dependent(s),
shall be required to pay for Medicare Part B, when eligible, upon or after
retirement. Retiree dependents who are receiving hospitalization benefits under
this provision shall continue to receive the benefits upon death of the
retiree, as long as the dependent is otherwise eligible, pursuant to the terms
and conditions of the carrier.
         b.   An employee who is not a member of a recognized bargaining unit,
and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, hired prior to September 1,
2002, who has at least ten years of credited service and who is found eligible
to retire with a non-duty disability retirement, shall be entitled to the
hospitalization benefit as outlined in subsection (a) of this section.
Employees hired after the effective date of this chapter who are not members of
a recognized bargaining unit, and who are not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers, shall not be entitled to the hospitalization benefit as outlined in
this section.
         c.   Eligible dependents of an employee who is not a member of a
recognized bargaining unit, and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers,
hired prior to September 1, 2002 who dies for non-duty reasons, shall be
entitled to the hospitalization benefit upon the deceased employee having
achieved 20 years of credited service, regardless of age, or at age 55 if the
deceased employee had at least ten years of credited service.
         d.   An employee who is not a member of a recognized bargaining unit,
and not employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, hired prior to September 1,
2002, who is found eligible to retire with a duty disability retirement, shall
be entitled to the hospitalization benefit regardless of age or credited
service.
         e.   In the event an employee participating in the City of Flint
Defined Contribution Pension Plan dies as a result of injury or disease arising
out of employment with the City, the eligible dependents will be entitled to
hospitalization benefits as outlined in subsection (a) as long as they remain
eligible under the provisions of the City of Flint Retirement Ordinance.
      (4)   New employees hired on or after July 1, 2004, shall only be
eligible for a flat dollar monthly amount based on years of service toward to
the cost of retiree health care. The monthly dollar amount shall be $5.00 times
each full year of service with the City. An employee hired on or after July 1,
2003, must have a minimum of 25 years of service and be 55 years of age or
older at the time of retirement to qualify for this retiree health care
stipend. To continue to be eligible for the stipend, the retiree must apply for
Medicare Part B when eligible. For the term of this agreement, eligibility for
retiree health for deferred retirement is limited to employees with 25 years or
more service, provided any current employee will be grandfathered under the
existing ten-year provision.
      (5)   Any employee who retires shall be obligated to pay the same monthly
cost, if any, for his or her selection of health care coverage available to
active employees as of their date of retirement, until such time as the retiree
has a total of 30 years of active employment service with the City plus years
of service as a retiree in receipt of retiree health care benefits. Upon a
retiree receiving Blue Cross - 65 Supplementary, that retiree’s contribution
for health care cost containment under this section shall be discontinued.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967; Ord. 2012, passed 11-6-1967; Ord. 2185, passed 12-
22-1969; Ord. 2191, passed 1-26- ; Ord. 2201, passed 3-10-1970; Ord. 2316,
passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2604, passed 5-27-1977;
Ord. 2628, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 2739, passed 9-
24-1979; Ord. 2775, passed 1-28-1980; Ord. 2929, passed 12-19-1984; Ord. 3088,
passed 2-13-1989; Ord. 3134, passed 4-23-1990; Ord. 3280, passed 7-25-1994;
Ord. 3496, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3498, passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 3596, passed 6-
24-2004)
§ 35-82 ARMED SERVICE CREDIT.
   Employees, except probationary employees, who have been in the armed
services of the United States, under military leave from the City, shall, for
the purposes of compensation and step increases, be given credit for the time
served in the armed services, the same as though the time was served in the
employ of the City. Those employees who have been reinstated in City employment
and have not received the compensation or step increase provided for in this
section shall be paid the increase retroactive to the date of the employee’s
reinstatement.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 35-83 SAME — PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEE.
   City probationary employees who have been in the armed services of the
United States, under military leave from the City, shall be required to
complete their probationary period the same as though they had not been in the
armed services, and shall be subject to the same rules and regulations as
ordinary probationers. They shall, however, upon completion of their
probationary period, and upon acquiring the status of regular employees, be
given credit for the purpose of compensation and step increases for the time
served in the armed services as provided in the foregoing section, effective,
however, as of the date they acquire status as regular employees and not as of
the date of reinstatement as probationary employees.
(Ord. 1981, passed 8-4-1967)
§ 35-84 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. WORKING CONDITIONS
§ 35-85 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUAL CLASSIFICATION POSITION. A combination of two positions of different
classifications, requiring the services of one employee, who has been certified
as qualified and who may be required to perform in both classifications.
   INTERIM EMPLOYEE. One who, at the time of employment, is employed with the
intention that his or her employment will be for a given work period or for a
specific project with the probability of being laid off at the end of the work
period or project.
   NORMAL WORK SHIFT. Consists of eight consecutive hours, with the exception
of the meal break and shall have a regular starting and quitting time.
   NORMAL WORKWEEK. Five consecutive eight- hour days, Monday through Friday,
except for continuous operations.
   PART-TIME EMPLOYEE. One who, at the time of employment and thereafter, is
scheduled to work less than a normal work-week; provided, however, that a
regular employee who works less than a normal workweek because of lack of funds
or available work is not a PART-TIME EMPLOYEE within the meaning of this
chapter.
   REGULAR EMPLOYEE. An individual who is employed to work a normal workweek in
a permanent position, and shall include a seasonal employee who has been
employed a sufficient number of work seasons to have accumulated 2,080 hours of
employment.
   RESIDENCE. The actual domicile of the employee. An employee shall have only
one domicile.
   SEASONAL EMPLOYEE. An individual who is employed to work a normal workweek,
in a position designed to be filled for a work season.
   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE. One who is employed for a short period of time to
perform emergency or extra work in a department, or to fill a temporary
vacancy. Temporary appointments shall be limited to a maximum of 90 days within
a cost center, and are nonrenewable.
   YEAR. Except as otherwise clearly indicated, shall mean the calendar year
for purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 474, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 2509, passed 8-28-1975; Ord. 1404, passed 10-
14-1957; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 2924, passed 9-24-1984)
§ 35-86 PURPOSE.
   In order to promote uniformity in the treatment of City employees relative
to vacation, sick and emergency leaves, holiday employment, fees and emoluments
other than directly received as wages and salaries, and other employment
conditions effecting City employees and in order to prevent discrimination, §§
35-86 et seq. hereof shall be controlling.
(Ord. 474, passed 3-20-1942)
§ 35-87 ANNUAL LEAVE.
   (a)   Annual leave shall be computed and accrued on the basis of each
payroll period that an employee has at least 72 hours of straight time pay. If
the employee has 40 hours of straight time pay in a payroll period, but not
less than 72 hours, the employee shall accrue one-half the amount shown in the
schedule below. Annual leave shall be based on service credits earned from and
after the last date of hire and shall be accrued on the following basis:
                Hours Accrued Maximum     Employees Hired   Employees Hired
Service Credits Per Payroll   Accumulated After 1-1-78      After 1-1-85
                Period        Hours       Maximum           Maximum
                                          Accumulated Hours Accumulated Hours
                Hours Accrued Maximum     Employees Hired   Employees Hired
Service Credits Per Payroll   Accumulated After 1-1-78      After 1-1-85
                Period        Hours       Maximum           Maximum
                                          Accumulated Hours Accumulated Hours
Less than 1825
(Employees 22B  5.6           484         264               320
and below)
Less than 1825
(Employees 23   6.8           529         336               320
and above)
1826B – 3649  7.1           569         344               320
3650            7.4           593         360               320
4015            7.7           617         376               320
4380            8.0           641         392               320
4745            8.4           664         408               320
5110            8.7           688         424               320
5475            9.0           712         440               320
 
   (b)   Annual leave may be cumulative but not to exceed the maximums set
forth above, and any excess shall be forfeited; provided, however, that any
excess as provided herein shall not be forfeited in the event the employee
suffers an injury or illness arising out of or in the course of employment
which has been determined compensable by the Bureau of Worker’s Compensation of
the State of Michigan, and because of the illness or injury is unable to
utilize the accumulated annual leave. Any excess annual leave accumulated and
unused due to compensable injury shall be used within six months after return
to work, the period may be extended by mutual agreement between the employee,
the appointing authority and the Personnel Director.
   (c)   Vacation schedules shall be developed by the division head on a
seniority basis. An employee may be required to take annual leave equivalent to
one-half of the annual leave earned in the preceding 26 payroll periods, and
also within the discretion of the division head, the employee may be required
to work all or part of the time that the employee would normally be on leave,
and in lieu of annual leave, shall be paid the annual leave pay provided in
this section, which annual leave pay shall be in addition to the compensation
received for the time actually worked during that period.
   (d)   Employees shall complete their probationary period before annual leave
may be utilized.
   (e)   Employees requesting annual leave in less than 40-hour increments may
be required to make request and receive approval from the division head 24
hours prior to the commencement of the leave. Provided, however, that use of
annual leave for emergency purposes shall be authorized by the department head
without regard to the 24-hour notice.
   (f)   Upon termination of employment, an employee shall be compensated for
his or her accrued annual leave at the rate of pay received by the employee at
the time the employment is terminated. In the event of the employee’s death,
unused accumulated annual leave shall be paid to the beneficiary named by the
employee.
   (g)   No sick or annual leave balance will be subject to challenge by an
employee for a period that covers more than 12 months prior to the date of the
challenge.
(Ord. 474, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 576, passed 4-9-1945; Ord. 1625, passed 2-27-
1961; Ord. 1919, passed 7-7-1966; Ord. 2089, passed 10-21-1968; Ord. 2315,
passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2464, passed 11-6-1974; Ord. 2509, passed 8-25-1975;
Ord. 2530, passed 11-5-1975; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2699, passed 2-
26-1979; Ord. 2929, passed 12-19-1984; Ord. 3496, passed 6-10-2002; Ord. 3498,
passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 3597, passed 6-24-2004)
§ 35-88 SICK LEAVE.
   Sick leave benefits shall be available as follows at the authorized rate of
pay provided in the prevailing salary ordinance for the position or job
actually engaged in at the time the sick leave is used.
   (a)   Except as provided below, all regular employees, as herein defined,
shall accrue sick leave at the rate of four hours of sick leave for each
payroll period that the employee has at least 72 hours of straight time pay. If
an employee has 40 hours of straight time pay in a payroll period, but less
than 72 hours, the employee shall earn and accrue two hours of sick leave. No
sick leave shall be earned or accrued if the employee has been on sick leave
for an entire payroll period.
   (b)   Charges against sick leave and pay allowances for time lost on account
of sickness shall be made only for time lost for which the employee normally
would have received pay and during which normally he or she would have been
required to work.
   (c)   Sick leave shall accrue on an unlimited basis.
   (d)   Sick leave shall be credited to the employee each payroll period.
   (e)   Application for sick leave shall be made to and approved by the
department head or the proper official designated by him or her. When an
employee is absent from duty for a period of three or more consecutive days, a
certificate from a licensed physician noting cause or causes of the absence, or
other proof of disability or illness, may be required, and if required the
proof shall be furnished before the leave request is granted. The employee
shall notify his or her department promptly of any disability or illness. Proof
of illness or disability may be required at any time by the department head.
   (f)   Sick leave shall be considered a matter of grace and not of right, in
that the decision of the appropriate department head shall control as to
eligibility for such leave except that an employee may appeal to the City
Administrator in all departments except the office of the City Clerk, in which
instance appeal may be made only to the City Clerk. In all cases, the decision
of the official to whom the appeal is made shall be final and conclusive in
every respect. In the event an employee has exhausted all of his or her
accumulated sick leave, additional lost time due to illness shall be charged
against and deducted from earned annual leave.
   (g)   (1)   a.   Employees who retire after being employed a sufficient
number of years to qualify for retirement under the provisions of §§
35-6 through
35-45 hereof, and the various retirement and pension plans therein provided,
shall be paid one day for each day of unused and accumulated sick leave days
for up to and including 60 days of such leave and one-half day for each day of
unused and accumulated sick leave days in excess of 120 days at the rate at
which the employee is being paid at the date of retirement.
         b.   Classified employees not represented by a collective bargaining
agent in a collective bargaining unit and not employed by the Board of Hospital
Managers who retire on or after January 16, 1995, after being employed a
sufficient number of years to qualify for retirement under the provisions of §§
35-6 through
35-45 of the Code, as amended, and the various retirement and pension plans
therein provided, shall be paid one day for each day of unused and accumulated
sick leave days for up to and including 60 days of such leave days and one-half
day for each day of unused and accumulated sick leave days in excess of 60 days
at the rate at which the employee is being paid at the date of retirement,
provided that no portion of this payment for accumulated sick leave between 60
and 120 days shall be included in the computation of final average compensation
for any unrepresented employee including those unrepresented employees who
otherwise receive final average compensation fold-in of sick and/or annual
leave.
      (2)   General members not represented by a bargaining unit and employed
by the Board of Hospital Managers who are eligible for sick leave inclusion and
whose retirement date is otherwise effective during the period of May 1, 1985
through December 31, 1985 shall have added to their final compensation payment
for unused sick days as follows:
 
Days          Payment
1 - 60        100%
61 - 120      50%
121 and above 50% of total accrual
 
      (3)   Employees who have exercised the option, pursuant to §
35-15(c), to participate in a deferred compensation plan established by
resolution adopted by the City Council and who have accrued eight years of
credited service shall be entitled to be paid for accumulated sick leave days
as provided in this subsection upon termination of employment under the
deferred compensation plan established by resolution adopted by the City
Council, regardless of whether the employee elected to become a member of the
City retirement system or elected to continue participation in a deferred
compensation plan established by resolution adopted by the City Council.
   (h)   In the event of death, except suicide, accumulated sick leave time
will be paid in accordance with the provisions of MSA § 17.277(10) on the same
formula as provided for retirees in subsection (g) hereof.
   (i)   General members not represented by recognized bargaining units and not
employed by the Board of Hospital Managers who are hired, promoted or
transferred after March 1, 1989 shall, at the time of retirement, be
compensated at 100% for all unused sick leave days and the sick leave days
shall not be added in the computation of their final average compensation.
(Ord. 474, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1404, passed 10-14-1957; Ord. 1919, passed 7-
7-1966; Ord. 1951, passed 1-16-1967; Ord. 2315, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2464,
passed 11-6-1974; Ord. 2530, passed 11-5-1975; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977;
Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 2929, passed 12-19-1984; Ord. 2959, passed 6-
24-1985; Ord. 3022, passed 12-8-1986; Ord. 3023, passed 12-17-1986; Ord. 3088,
passed 2-13-1989; Ord. 3280, passed 7-25-1994; Ord. 3496, passed 6-10-2002;
Ord. 3498, passed 7-22-2002; Ord. 3598, passed 6-24-2004)
§ 35-88.1 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS.
   (a)   Except as herein otherwise provided, when an employee suffers an
illness or injury arising out of or in the course of his or her employment
which entitles him or her to weekly compensation payments under the Workers’
Compensation Act of the State he or she shall, during the period of such
disability up to a maximum of 26 weeks, receive a supplemental payment which
when added to his or her weekly compensation payments, will equal 80% of his or
her regular salary. In cases where medical certification indicates that a
convalescent period beyond the 26 weeks would result in the employee’s return
to work, an extension of his or her benefit period may be granted by the City
Administrator or appropriate City officials. Upon his or her return to work in
his or her regular position or other assigned work, he or she shall be paid the
difference between 100% of his or her regular salary and the total weekly
compensation payment and supplemental pay previously received. When the period
of disability resulting from the illness or injury is not of sufficient
duration to entitle the employee to payment of weekly compensation payments
under the statute, he or she shall be paid compensation payments under the
statute, he or she shall be paid compensation equal to his or her regular
salary and the total weekly compensation payments and supplemental pay
previously received. When the period of disability resulting from the illness
or injury is not of sufficient duration to entitle the employee to payment of
weekly compensation payments under the statute, he or she shall be paid
compensation equal to his or her regular salary during the period of the
disability.
   (b)   All insurance benefits shall be continued at City expense during that
period.
   (c)   Whenever an employee suffers a compensable illness or injury, time
lost as a result thereof shall not be deducted from the employee’s sick or
annual leave.
(Ord. 2315, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979)
§ 35-88.A.1 SICK LEAVE FOR UNREPRESENTED CLASSIFIED EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   Any classified employee not represented by a recognized bargaining
unit or employed by the Board of Hospital Managers, who has accumulated 365
service credits, and is eligible to accrue sick leave, who has been absent from
work for 28 consecutive calendar days and is unable to work due to health
reasons not related to his or her job, shall be eligible for sick leave
benefits as herein provided. An employee who enters a residential
rehabilitation program shall be eligible for sick leave benefits after 28
consecutive calendar days absence. An employee who does not complete the
rehabilitation program must reimburse the City for those days either in cash or
through reduction of the employee’s accrued annual and/or sick leave, if any,
or by reducing the accrual by one-half of the normal accrual until the City is
reimbursed.
   (b)   Written application for sick leave benefits, on forms provided by the
City, shall be filed with the Personnel Department and shall be accompanied by
a written statement from the employee’s physician which shall include the
doctor’s diagnosis and anticipated period of absence. The City may require the
employee to submit to a medical examination at City expense, prior to
authorizing payment of leave benefits, or at any time during any leave granted.
Upon receipt of such satisfactory information, the employee will be placed on
sick leave with benefits for a period not to exceed 26 payroll periods.
   (c)   Payments during this period shall be at the rate of 75% of the
employee’s straight time hourly rate, excluding premium pay, and shall include
only those days the employee would have been paid but was unable to work due to
his or her health.
   (d)   When an employee has exhausted all available sick leave insurance
benefits, but is unable to work due to health reasons, upon making proper
application therefor, the employee shall use his or her accrued sick and annual
leave prior to being eligible to be placed on extended sick leave as outlined
in § 35-88A.2.
   (e)   At the conclusion of a residential rehabilitation program, any
employee receiving sick leave benefits must undergo a physical examination
conducted by the City health clinic within two weeks of the end of the program.
In the event the employee fails the examination for a residential
rehabilitation program, sick leave benefits will be terminated unless the
employee immediately reenters a new residential rehabilitation program. Sick
leave benefits shall terminate two weeks after the end of the second program,
even if the employee still is unable to pass a physical examination conducted
by the City health clinic.
   (f)   An employee will be eligible for sick leave insurance benefits not
more than two times in any five-year period.
   (g)   The waiting period for all employees shall be 28 calendar days.
(Ord. 3229, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 3279, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 35-88.A.2 SAME — EXTENDED SICK LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   (a)   A classified employee not represented by a recognized bargaining unit
or employed by the Board of Hospital Managers who has accumulated 365 service
credits, who has used all available paid leave time, and not drawing sick leave
insurance benefits, and who continues to be unable to return to work due to his
or her health, may be granted an extended sick leave without pay.
   (b)   Applications for extended sick leave shall be submitted to the
Personnel Department and shall be accompanied by a statement from the
employee’s personal physician which includes a diagnosis and the expected date
of recovery and return to work. The City may require the employee to submit to
a medical examination. Upon receipt of such satisfactory information, the
employee will be placed on extended sick leave without pay or benefits for a
period of not to exceed 13 payroll periods.
   (c)   The City will notify an employee on sick leave, preferably with his or
her next to the last insurance check, of the number of sick and annual days
available to him or her and that he or she must apply for extended sick leave,
as provided herein within ten calendar days of receipt of this notice or prior
to the expiration of indicated sick and annual days, whichever is the last to
occur. The notification shall inform the employee that failure to apply as
provided above will result in his or her being considered as having resigned.
   (d)   An employee with less than 365 service credits who exhausts all
available sick leave, annual leave and applicable extended sick leave may, upon
application, be granted an extended sick leave without pay or benefits upon
recommendation of the appointing authority and authorization by the Personnel
Director. The leave will be for 13 payroll periods.
(Ord. 3229, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 3279, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 35-88.A.3 SAME — RETURN FROM SICK LEAVE.
   (a)   Return from extended sick leave within six months shall mean return to
the classification consistent with the seniority of the classified employee as
defined in §
35-88.A.1 and not necessarily to his or her previous position and/or
department.
   (b)   Not less than five days prior to the date the employee expects to
return to work, the employee shall notify the Personnel Department of his or
her return to work so arrangements for a physical examination may be made, if
required.
   (c)   An employee unable to return to work because of the continuing
disability at the expiration of 13 payroll periods, will be placed on the
layoff list for his or her respective classification consistent with their
seniority for 39 payroll periods. At any time during the period that the
employee has recovered, and a position in his or her classification or related
classification becomes available and is not accepted by the employee, the
employee shall be considered as having voluntarily quit. If no position has
become available during the period, the employee’s name shall be removed from
the layoff list.
   (d)   While on layoff list, the employee may apply for openings as they
become available. In the event the employee has elected to withdraw his or her
retirement contributions, he or she shall be permitted to reacquire the
benefits earned by complying with the applicable provisions of Ord. 1860.
   (e)   An employee who is receiving sick leave insurance benefits, or who is
on extended sick leave, may be examined by the employer’s medical
representative, without cost to the employee, to determine whether he or she is
able to return to work.
(Ord. 3229, passed 2-22-1993; Ord. 3279, passed 6-13-1994)
§ 35-89 HOLIDAYS.
   (a)   Holiday observance.
      (1)   The following days shall be designated as holidays:
         a.   Independence Day;
         b.   Labor Day;
         c.   Thanksgiving Day;
         d.   Christmas Eve;
         e.   New Year’s Eve;
         f.   New Year’s Day;
         g.   Martin Luther King Day; and
         h.   Memorial Day.
      (2)   All holidays shall be observed on the actual calendar day of their
occurrence except in the following situations:
         a.   Martin Luther King Day shall be observed on a Monday; and
         b.   For employees with a normal workweek which enables them to have
every Saturday and/or Sunday off, any holiday which has a calendar date falling
on a Saturday and/or Sunday, the calendar date shall be ignored and the holiday
shall be observed as follows:
            1.   Holidays occurring on a Saturday will be observed on the
preceding Friday;
            2.   Holidays occurring on a Sunday will be observed on the
following Monday;
            3.   Consecutive holidays occurring on Friday and Saturday will be
observed on Thursday and Friday; and
            4.   Consecutive holidays occurring on Sunday and Monday will be
observed on Monday and Tuesday.
   (b)   Holiday benefits — regular shift. Regular shift employees who are not
required to work their regular shift on any holiday set forth in subsection (a)
above shall receive eight hours pay at their straight time hourly rate.
   (c)   Holiday benefits — other than regular shift.
      (1)   Any regular employee allocated to level 22B and below required to
work four or more hours in excess of a regular shift on any holiday set forth
in subsection (a) hereof shall be paid one additional hour of pay at their
straight time hourly rate for each hour worked in excess of eight, or in lieu
of such payment the employee may elect to be credited with one hour annual
leave for each hour worked in excess of eight on that day.
      (2)   Any regular employee allocated to level 22B and below called in to
work less than a full shift on any holiday set forth in subsection (a) above,
whether or not the employee was on standby, shall, in addition to the
compensation set forth in subsection (b) above, be credited with one hour
annual leave for each hour worked on the holiday.
   (d)   Duplication of holiday benefits. Employees required to work both the
calendar date and the designated date of a holiday shall receive holiday
benefits only for the calendar date of the holiday.
   (e)   Unauthorized leave. Employees who are absent the last scheduled work
day preceding the holiday, or the first scheduled work day following a holiday,
which absence is not authorized, shall receive no pay for the holiday.
(Ord. 474, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1625, passed 2-27-1961; Ord. 1919, passed 7-
7-1966; Ord. 1907, passed 6-6-1967; Ord. 2444, passed 7-1-1974; Ord. 2583,
passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2699, passed 2-26-1979; Ord. 2929, passed 12-19-1984)
§ 35-90 TUITION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (a)   If a regular employee as herein defined desires to enroll in one or
more job-related courses at an accredited educational institution while
continuing in full-time employment, he or she may submit in advance of
commencing the course or courses a letter of application to the department head
for reimbursement of the cost of his or her tuition.
   (b)   The letter of application shall list the course or courses to be taken
by course title and number along with a brief description of the course
content. Also to be included is the name of the educational institution,
location of the course offering, dates, times and costs thereof.
   (c)   Upon proof of satisfactory completion of any course or courses and of
the amount expended for tuition therefor, the employee shall be reimbursed for
such tuition up to $500.00 per fiscal year, provided that the employee agrees,
in writing, to remain a full- time employee for a period of one year following
the completion of the course and likewise agrees that if he or she voluntarily
leaves the City’s employ before the expiration of the one-year period, he or
she will have deducted from his or her final day an amount equal to one-twelfth
of the tuition reimbursement for each month or portion thereof lacking of the
one-year requirement.
(Ord. 3023, passed 12-17-1986)
§ 35-91 MILITARY LEAVE.
   Whenever an employee who is a member of the National Guard, Naval Reserve,
Army Reserve, Marine Reserve, Air Corps Reserve or Coast Guard Reserve is
called to active duty or is compelled to participate in classes or instruction
as part of an activated reserve unit, he or she shall be paid, during the time
of the service, the difference between his or her regular wage or salary and
the allowance of the State of Michigan, or other governmental authority, for
the service, provided that in the case of active service that total period of
payment shall not exceed three calendar weeks in any single calendar year and
in the case of compulsory reserve training, the period of payment shall be
determined by the appropriate department head. Before the payment shall be
made, the employee shall furnish the Director of Finance with a letter from the
commanding officer showing the period of active duty and the allowance made the
employee by the State of Michigan or other governmental authority for the
service.
(Ord. 474, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1625, passed 2-27-1961; Ord. 1919, passed 7-
7-1966; Ord. 2315, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2509, passed 8-25-1975)
§ 35-92 JURY DUTY.
   (a)   (1)   Whenever an employee is called for jury duty before any court
entitled to impanel a jury, he or she shall, when possible, give reasonable
notice of such calling to his or her immediate superior. He or she shall
thereafter, for days when required to report for such duty, be entitled to
leave without pay, except as is provided in subsection (a)(2) below.
      (2)   An employee complying with the above conditions, and upon supplying
to the Director of Finance of the City adequate proof that he or she has
reported for jury duty before a court entitled to impanel a jury, shall be paid
by the City the difference between his or her regular wage or salary and his or
her jury pay for each day he or she so reported.
   (b)   When an employee is called for jury duty and complies with the
requirements of subsection (a) of this section, for longevity purposes he or
she shall receive credit as though he or she had worked for the City.
(Ord. 1625, passed 2-27-1961)
§ 35-93 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (a)   When death occurs in the employee’s immediate family, i.e., spouse,
parents, stepparents, children and stepchildren, the employee, upon request,
will be granted bereavement leave for the first five scheduled working days
immediately following the date of death.
   (b)   When death occurs of any of the employee’s parents-in-law, brothers,
sisters, sisters-in-law, brothers-in-law, grandchildren or other relatives
permanently residing in the employee’s home, the employee, upon request, will
be granted bereavement leave for the first three scheduled working days
immediately following the date of death, provided they attend the appropriate
death related service. The supervisor may require evidence of such attendance
in the form of a sympathy card or obituary notice.
   (c)   In the event the employee is notified of the death during his or her
scheduled work shift and requests to be excused immediately, the employee shall
be released as soon as possible and shall have the option of having the
remainder of his or her shift charged to his or her accrued annual leave or
having that day counted as the first day of the bereavement leave to which he
or she may be entitled.
   (d)   If a death occurs under these provisions while an employee is on
annual leave, upon notice his or her status shall be changed from annual leave
to bereavement leave.
   (e)   Employees granted bereavement leave under this section shall, after
making written request for this leave and submitting proof of relationship,
receive the amount of wages they would have earned by working during straight
time hours on such scheduled days of work for which they are on bereavement
leave.
   (f)   Employees may be granted additional time off for travel or otherwise
by use of earned annual leave upon approval of their supervisor or department
head. The decision of the supervisor or department head relative to the use of
annual leave for that purpose, shall not be arbitrary.
(Ord. 2444, passed 7-1-1974; Ord. 2583, passed 1-17-1977; Ord. 2699, passed 2-
26-1979)
§ 35-94 SUSPENSION OF NONESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (a)   The determination that an emergency exists and the services deemed
essential under the conditions existing at the time shall be at the sole
discretion of the Mayor. An announcement through the news media by the Mayor or
his or her designated representative shall advise the employees of the
emergency and shall specify, by division, those employees deemed to be
essential and who are required to report to work.
   (b)   If the declaration of emergency occurs prior to 7:00 a.m. only those
employees engaged in essential services shall report for work, and the
employees shall be compensated as follows:
      (1)   Regular employees engaged in essential services, who are required
to work during the period of the emergency shall be compensated at their
straight time hourly rate for their normal work shift and at overtime rates for
all hours in excess of their normal work shift. In addition, the employees
shall be credited with annual leave equal to the total number of hours worked,
or in lieu of the annual leave, the employees may elect to receive compensation
for those hours at their straight time hourly rate.
      (2)   Regular employees engaged in nonessential services, and not
required to work, and regular employees engaged in essential services who are
unable to report for work as a direct result of the conditions necessitating
the declaration of emergency shall be paid their straight time hourly rate for
a normal work shift and shall have 25% of the shift charged to their accrued
annual leave.
   (c)   If the declaration of emergency occurs after the start of the
employees’ regular shift, the employees shall be compensated as follows:
      (1)   Regular employees engaged in essential services shall be
compensated in accordance with subsection (b)(1) above, with the exception that
earned annual leave shall be credited for only those hours worked after the
declaration of the emergency.
      (2)   Regular employees engaged in nonessential services shall be sent
home, but shall be compensated at their straight time hourly rate for a normal
work shift with 25% of the time not worked charged to their accrued annual
leave.
   (d)   Interim, temporary or part-time employees engaged in essential
services who are required to work during the period of the emergency shall be
compensated in accordance with subsections (b)(1) or (c)(1) above, except that
the employees shall not be credited annual leave equal to the number of hours
worked but shall receive payment therefor.
   (e)   Employees who are on authorized sick or scheduled annual leave prior
to the declaration of emergency, shall have their absence charged to the
appropriate accrued leave.
(Ord. 1946, passed 12-9-1966; Ord. 2315, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2699, passed 2-
26-1979)
§ 35-95 CREDITING OF ANNUAL LEAVE ACCUMULATIONS WHILE IN ARMED SERVICE.
   A City employee who had been in the armed services of the United States and
who is released or discharged from those duties under honorable conditions, and
makes application for reemployment within 90 days after he or she is released
from military duties or from hospitalization continuing after discharge for a
period of not more than one year, shall upon reinstatement and after completing
the probationary period when applicable, be given credit for annual leave
accumulation for the time spent in the armed services as though the time spent
in the armed service had been spent in the employ of the City.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-11-1946; Ord. 1453, passed 9-8-1958)
§ 35-96 ACCUMULATION OF SICK LEAVE WHILE IN ARMED SERVICES.
   City employees who have been in the armed services of the United States,
under military leave from the City, shall, upon reinstatement to City
employment, be given sick leave for the time spent in the armed services, the
same as though the time spent in the armed services had been spent in the
employ of the City, which sick leave shall be added to any sick leave they had
prior to entering the armed services.
(Ord. 610, passed 2-11-1946)
§ 35-97 EMPLOYEES NOT TO RECEIVE COMPENSATION FOR TIME NOT EXPENDED IN CITY
SERVICE.
   (a)   No employee shall receive compensation for time not expended in City
employment, except as provided in this chapter and earned pursuant to this
chapter and except as may be provided in the compensation plan.
   (b)   Deductions from the earnings of employees shall be made on the basis
of the hourly rate for time lost.
(Ord. 474, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1919, passed 7-7-1966; Ord. 2699, passed 2-
26-1979)
§ 35-98 CONVERSION OF ANNUAL SALARY TO HOURLY RATE; EMPLOYEES EMPLOYED IN DUAL
CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (a)   To convert the annual salary of an employee to an hourly rate, divide
the annual salary by 2,080.
   (b)   Employees who are employed in dual classifications, when taking annual
leave or sick leave shall be paid at the rate which will reflect the
proportionate hours worked by the employee in each classification position is a
combination of two positions of different classifications, requiring the
services of one employee, who has been certified as qualified and who may be
required to perform in both classifications.
(Ord. 474, passed 3-20-1942; Ord. 1919, passed 7-7-1966; Ord. 2315, passed 3-
13-1972)
§ 35-99 RESERVED.
§ 35-100 BENEFITS NOT AVAILABLE TO PART-TIME, TEMPORARY INTERIM OR CONTRACTUAL
EMPLOYEES; EXCEPTION AS TO ANNUAL LEAVE.
   None of the benefits provided in this chapter shall be available to part-
time, temporary, interim or contractual employees. Provided, however, effective
January 1, 1976, part-time employees shall, upon accumulation of 2,080 hours of
employment, accrue annual leave time in accordance with §
35-87 hereof.
(Ord. 1919, passed 7-7-1966; Ord. 2315, passed 3-13-1972; Ord. 2699, passed 2-
26-1979)
§ 35-101 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION — CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Section
5-101 of the Flint City Charter effective November 10, 1975, the Civil Service
Commission is hereby created composed of seven members.
(Ord. 2515, passed 9-29-1975)
§ 35-102 SAME — SELECTION MEMBERS.
   On or before the first Thursday of November, all City employees within the
Classified Service, except those employees by the Board of Hospital Managers,
shall select one member of the Civil Service Commission by secret ballot at an
election to be conducted by the City Clerk. A polling place has been
established at a convenient location and shall be available for voting by City
employees commencing 6:00 a.m. of the election day and concluding 6:00 p.m. on
that day.
(Ord. 2515, passed 9-29-1975; Ord. 2527, passed 10-27-1975; Ord. 3035, passed
5-11-1987)
§ 35-103 SAME — QUALIFICATIONS OF CANDIDATES.
   All candidates for nomination and election by the employees shall meet the
following requirements:
   (a)   Must have attained the age of 18 years prior to the date of election;
   (b)   Must be a resident of the City of Flint; and
   (c)   Must hold no appointive or elective office with the City of Flint or
be in the employ of the City of Flint during his or her term of office.
(Ord. 2515, passed 9-29-1975; Ord. 2527, passed 10-27-1975)
§ 35-104 SAME — SUBMISSION OF NOMINATING PETITION BY CANDIDATE.
   To qualify as a candidate, the qualified candidate must personally submit a
nominating petition for the position of Civil Service Commission to the City
Clerk, which petition shall be signed by not less than 50 general City
employees. Candidates for the position of Civil Service Commissioner to be
elected by employees of Hurley Medical Center shall submit a similar petition
signed by not less than 50 employees of Hurley Medical Center, to the office of
the Hospital Director. The petitions shall be submitted not later than 4:00
p.m. the last Friday of October. No employee shall sign more than one
nominating petition. Ballots shall be provided by the City Clerk and the
Hospital Director listing the names of all qualified candidates.
(Ord. 2515, passed 9-29-1975; Ord. 2527, passed 10-27-1975)
§ 35-105 SAME — ELECTION OF MEMBER BY BOARD OF HOSPITAL MANAGERS EMPLOYEES.
   The employees of the Board of Hospital Managers shall elect a member of the
Civil Service Commission at the same time and in the same manner as provided
above with the election to be conducted and supervised by the Hospital
Director.
(Ord. 2515, passed 9-29-1975)
§ 35-106 SAME — POWERS, DUTIES AND TERMS.
   The powers and duties of the Civil Service Commission, their term of office
and other conditions of their tenure shall be as set forth in Article 5 of the
Charter of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2515, passed 9-29-1975)
§ 35-107 SAME — ELECTION; RUN-OFF.
   The candidate receiving a majority of the votes of the respective groups of
employees shall be elected Civil Service Commissioner. In the event no
candidate received a majority of votes at the election the first Thursday in
November, a run-off election of the two candidates receiving the highest number
of votes in each election shall be held the second Thursday in November under
the same conditions specified herein.
(Ord. 2515, passed 9-29-1975; Ord. 2527, passed 10-27-1975)
§ 35-108 SAME — FORM OF SUBPOENA BY CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION.
   For the purposes of enforcing Section
5-202 of the Charter of the City of Flint, subpoenas may be issued by the Civil
Service Commission in the name of the people of the City of Flint and shall be
signed and sealed by the Director of the Civil Service Commission pursuant to
the rules of the Civil Service Commission.
(Ord. 2704, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 35-109 SAME — REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH SUBPOENA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person served with a subpoena issued by the
Civil Service Commission as provided in §
35-108 to appear and testify or to produce books, papers and other evidence in
the course of an investigation or proceeding pursuant to Section
5-202 of the Charter, to refuse or neglect to appear or testify or produce the
books, papers and other evidence as commanded in the subpoena. The provisions
of this section are cumulative and are not intended to have any effect on the
power of the Civil Service Commission to take other action to compel the
production of evidence.
(Ord. 2704, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 35-110 CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH PERSON HAVING A FAMILY RELATIONSHIP TO
DEPARTMENT OR DIVISION HEAD MAY BE EMPLOYED.
   (a)   No person acting as the appointing authority for any department or
division within the City of Flint shall select for appointment to any personnel
position occurring within the department or division any person having a direct
family relationship to the person acting as the appointing authority.
   (b)   No person acting as the appointing authority for any department or
division within the City of Flint shall select for appointment to any personnel
position within the department or division any person having a direct family
relationship to any other department or division head without first having the
appointment reviewed and approved by the Standards of Conduct Board for the
City of Flint.
   (c)   For the purposes of this section, DIRECT FAMILY RELATIONSHIP shall
mean spouse, sibling, children, stepchildren, parents, stepparents,
grandparents, parents-in-law, sons-in-law, daughters- in-law, grandchildren,
niece and nephew.
   (d)   Any person making application for employment with the City of Flint
shall disclose upon the application any family relationship to any other person
currently employed by the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2812, passed 10-21-1981)
§ 35-111 CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS OF ALL EMPLOYEES AND VOLUNTEERS
REPRESENTING THE CITY OF FLINT AT THE BERSTON FIELD HOUSE, BRENNAN COMMUNITY
CENTER, HASKELL COMMUNITY CENTER, HASSELBRING SENIOR CENTER, AND PIERCE
COMMUNITY CENTER.
   The purpose of this section is to safeguard City residents and City-owned
property.
   (a)   Individuals subject to criminal background checks:
      (1)   An applicant, seeking to engage in City employment at City of Flint
community centers; and
      (2)   An applicant, seeking to engage in volunteerism with the City of
Flint, acting as an agent on behalf of the City of Flint.
   (b)   Applicant shall submit his or her fingerprints, along with the
appropriate fees for local, State and national criminal background checks.
   (c)   Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the City of
Flint Police Department shall:
      (1)   If no disqualifying conduct is found therein, transmit sets of
fingerprints to the Human Resources Department for retention in the appropriate
application file; or
      (2)   If disqualifying conduct is found therein, submit the fingerprints
to the Michigan State Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a
comparison with statewide and nationwide records. The results of the Michigan
State Police and Federal Bureau of Investigation checks shall be returned to
the Flint Police Department, which shall transmit the results to the Human
Resources Department for retention in the appropriate applicant file.
   (d)   The City of Flint shall render its decision based upon the results of
the criminal background check and communicate whether or not the applicant is
eligible to volunteer or be employed at a City of Flint community center.
   (e)   In rendering a fitness determination, the City of Flint Human
Resources Department will decide whether the applicant has been convicted of,
or is subject to pending indictment for a crime that bears upon his or her
ability or fitness to serve in that capacity.
   (f)   An applicant may request and receive a copy of his or her criminal
history record information from the City of Flint Human Resources Department.
Should the applicant seek to amend or correct his or her record, he or she may
contact the Michigan State Police and/or the Federal Bureau of Investigation
for records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
(Ord. 3713, passed 6-9-2008)
CHAPTER 36: PLUMBING
Section
   
36-1   Plumbing Code — enforcement agency designated
   
36-1.1   Repealer
   
36-2   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
§ 36-1 PLUMBING CODE — ENFORCEMENT AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Plumbing Code, in accordance with
Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of the
City of Flint is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibilities of the City of Flint under Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972,
being MCLA §§ 125.1501 et seq., and MSA §§ 5.2949(1) et seq., as amended. The
City of Flint, through its Department of Public Works and Utilities, Building
and Safety Inspections Division, by adoption of this section assumes
responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the State of Michigan
Plumbing Code in the City of Flint.
(Ord. 2851, passed 9-13-1982; Ord. 3026, passed 2-9-1987; Ord. 3033, passed 4-
27-1987; Ord. 3090, passed 2-13-1989; Ord. 3211, passed 8-16-1992; Ord. 3225,
passed 12-14-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Buildings, see
Ch. 11
   Heating, see
Ch. 22
   Housing, see
Ch. 24
   Utilities, see
Ch. 46
§ 36-1.1 REPEALER.
   All ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of §
36-1 are repealed.
(Ord. 3225, passed 12-14-1992)
§ 36-2 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §
36-1 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3561, passed 6-9-2004)
CHAPTER 37: POLES AND WIRES
Section
Article I. In General
   
37-1   Approval required of underground installations
Article II. Electrical Supply or Communications Lines
   
37-2   Applicability of article
   
37-2.1   Persons or companies installing and/or maintaining utility lines
within public rights-of-way — to indemnify City against costs and damages
   
37-2.2   Same — to file acceptance of terms and agreements with Director of
Public Works and Utilities
   
37-2.3   Same — notification by Director to correct hazardous conditions; work
performed by City
   
37-3   Application for permit to set poles
   
37-4   Injury to drains, pavements and the like, caused by installation of
poles; removal of unused poles
   
37-5   Attachment of fire and police signal system wire to existing poles
   
37-6   Relocation of poles
   
37-7   City’s expense in enforcing article
   
37-8   Applicability of other laws and ordinances
Article III. Underground District
   
37-9   Designated
   
37-10   Poles or overhead wires prohibited
   
37-11   Placing transformers on overhead structures
   
37-12   Electrical metal raceway works
Cross-reference:
   Buildings, see
Ch. 11
   Electricity, see
Ch. 16
   Heating, see
Ch. 22
   Housing, see
Ch. 24
   Raising or rearranging wires during moving of buildings and the like, see §§
11-15,
11-16
   Utilities, see
Ch. 46
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 37-1 APPROVAL REQUIRED OF UNDERGROUND INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay or place, or cause to be placed
underground, or to make or cause to be made an excavation in any street, alley
or public place in the City for the laying or placing therein of any electric,
telephone or telegraph wires, cables or conduits, or any water or gas mains or
pipes, until there shall have been filed with the Department of Public Works
and Utilities, and approved by the City Council, or in the case of a
telecommunications provider, compliance with §§
15-63 through
15-83, detailed plans and maps showing the proposed size, character and
location of the wires, cables, conduits, mains or pipes, or lay or place, or
cause to be laid or placed any such electric, telephone or telegraph wires,
cables, conduits, mains or pipes, in any such street, alley or public place,
not in conformity with such maps or plans, when approved by the City Council,
or if a telecommunications provider, not in conformity with §§
15-63 through
15-83.
(Ord. 98, passed 7-23-1917; Ord. 3511, passed 4-28-2003)
ARTICLE II. ELECTRICAL SUPPLY OR COMMUNICATIONS LINES
§ 37-2 APPLICABILITY OF ARTICLE.
   Every person owning, controlling, operating or maintaining any electrical
supply lines for light or power, or both, or communication lines for telephone,
telegraph or any other purpose whatsoever, in the public streets, parks or
bridges and in other public places in the City, shall be subject so far as
applicable to all of the restrictions and provisions contained herein, and
those contained, if applicable, in §§
15-63 through
15-83, or to such other regulations in respect thereto, as the City Council may
at any time by ordinance or otherwise prescribed.
(Ord. 851, passed 4-18-1949; Ord. 3511, passed 4-28-2003)
§ 37-2.1 PERSONS OR COMPANIES INSTALLING AND/OR MAINTAINING UTILITY LINES
WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY — TO INDEMNIFY CITY AGAINST COSTS AND DAMAGES.
   Any person and/or company in the work of laying down, repairing, retaining
in place, relaying or continuing gas pipes, electrical, cable communications,
communications and/or fiber optics/telecommunications lines along, across,
under, over and through any and all streets, lanes, alleys and sidewalks, and
public grounds of the City, and in digging or other installation or repair work
necessary on the pipes and/or lines shall take care not to unnecessarily
obstruct or injure the streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds and
shall with reasonable diligence restore the streets, lanes, alleys, sidewalks
or public grounds to as good a state of repair and condition as the same was
before disturbed by the person and/or company, and shall in all respects fully
indemnify and save harmless the City from and against all damages and costs
which the City shall be put to or sustain by reason of the installation or
repair work, or any claim, damages, demands or causes of action arising out of
the utility’s use of the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 3057, passed 6-13-1988)
§ 37-2.2 SAME — TO FILE ACCEPTANCE OF TERMS AND AGREEMENTS WITH DIRECTOR OF
PUBLIC WORKS AND UTILITIES.
   Such person and/or company currently conducting or wishing to do business in
the City, its associates, successors and assigned shall within 30 days after
the adoption of §§
37-2.1 through
37-2.3, file with the Director of Public Works and Utilities of the City, or
his or her designee, a copy of the article of incorporation and its acceptance
of the terms and conditions of these Code sections and agreements to perform on
its part according to the terms and conditions hereof.
(Ord. 3057, passed 6-13-1988)
§ 37-2.3 SAME — NOTIFICATION BY DIRECTOR TO CORRECT HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS; WORK
PERFORMED BY CITY.
   Upon the findings of the Director of Public Works and Utilities or his or
her designee that the condition of any public right-of-way, due to the
existence of a utility installation or repair constitutes an immediate hazard
and that danger exists to persons and/or property which requires immediate
action to alleviate the hazard and danger, the Director of Public Works and
Utilities or his or her designee shall attempt to notify the owner or person in
charge of the utility installation that the condition exists, and advising
that, if the condition is not corrected within three days, that the City will
commence the work necessary to correct the effect and bill the cost of the work
performed by the City to the utility, person and/or company involved. The
attempted notification and repair will not operate to relieve the utility,
person or company of primary responsibility and liability in causing or
allowing the defect in the first place.
(Ord. 3057, passed 6-13-1988)
§ 37-3 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO SET POLES.
   Except as emergency conditions may require, no poles shall be placed in any
public street, alley or other public place in the City without first making
written application to the Electrical Inspector and the Director of Public
Works and Utilities. The application shall be accompanied with a sketch or be a
sketch with impression for approvals to be entered thereon and shall be
prepared in duplicate. The sketch should show the locations of the applicant’s
proposed poles and the locations of existing poles situated within 150 feet of
the proposed poles. The approvals of the Electrical Inspector and the Director
of Public Works and Utilities shall constitute and be all the authority
required for installation of poles and equipment. One of the applications
including map or sketch, after approval, is to be placed on file in the office
of the Electrical Inspector and the other application and map or sketch
returned promptly to the applicant with approvals or disapproval entered
thereon. In the case of emergencies requiring the installations shall be
subsequently covered by application as above prescribed and be subject to
review and approval or rejection by the Electrical Inspector and Director of
Public Works and Utilities.
(Ord. 851, passed 4-18-1949)
§ 37-4 INJURY TO DRAINS, PAVEMENTS AND THE LIKE, CAUSED BY INSTALLATION OF
POLES; REMOVAL OF UNUSED POLES.
   If in the installation or replacement of poles any injury shall be done to
drains, water pipes, sewers, gas pipes, ducts, conduit lines, conductors,
pavements or sidewalks, the same shall be at once put in good condition as
existed prior to the injury thereof, arrangement made for repairs and payments
by the persons causing damages. Unused poles may be ordered removed by the City
Council and in case of failure to obey the order within 30 days, the City
Council may cause the same to be removed and charge the expense of the removal
to the person owning the poles. This expense shall be paid upon demand.
(Ord. 851, passed 4-18-1949)
§ 37-5 ATTACHMENT OF FIRE AND POLICE SIGNAL SYSTEM WIRE TO EXISTING POLES.
   The City shall have the right to place crossarms and pins or brackets for
such fire and police telegraph, telephone or signal system wires as it may wish
to place on any poles, the pole-owning company to have the option of reasonably
determining how and where the attachments shall be made. The City shall also
have the right to place and maintain fire, police signal and communication
boxes on any pole under the supervision of the pole-owning company. The
installation, maintenance and removal of the fire and police telegraph,
telephone or signal system crossarms, pins or brackets, wires and signal boxes
shall be under the supervision of the City’s department having jurisdiction
over the attachments, and they shall at all times perform installations and
repairs in accordance with rules and regulations of the Michigan Public Service
Commission, and to the satisfaction of the pole-owning company. No person shall
in any way change, connect to or interfere with the fire or police signal
system wires or apparatus without first obtaining permission from the
department having supervision over the signal systems.
(Ord. 851, passed 4-18-1949)
§ 37-6 RELOCATION OF POLES.
   Whenever the City Council deems it necessary for the benefit or convenience
of the public to cause the relocation of any of the poles mentioned in this
chapter, it may so declare by resolution and shall thereupon give a written
notice by registered mail of such resolution to the person owning the poles.
Within 30 days after receipt of the notice, the person shall cause the
relocation thereof to be made at a location mutually agreeable to the Director
of Public Works and Utilities, the pole owner and the pole user; provided, that
the Director of Public Works and Utilities is hereby authorized to extend the
30-day period where conditions make the extension necessary and desirable.
(Ord. 851, passed 4-18-1949)
§ 37-7 CITY’S EXPENSE IN ENFORCING ARTICLE.
   The expense incurred by the City in the employment of any servant, agent,
officer or workers to carry out the provisions of this chapter in case of
neglect or refusal on the part of any person, using or occupying the streets of
the City with its poles, shall be a proper charge against the person and shall
be paid on demand on a voucher or bill, duly certified and approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 851, passed 4-18-1949)
§ 37-8 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   A person erecting electrical service or communication lines shall at all
times be subject to and obey the provisions of this Code or other City
ordinances now in existence as well as any and all ordinances which may be
passed relating to the use of the public streets, and places within the City,
including the putting up of signal lights and barriers at and around
excavations and other dangerous places in the streets and public places.
(Ord. 851, passed 4-18-1949)
ARTICLE III. UNDERGROUND DISTRICT
§ 37-9 DESIGNATED.
   The following described district, property or lands shall be known as the
underground district of the City.
   Beginning at the southwest corner of West Court and Beach Streets, and
running north on the west side of Beach Street, to the Flint River, crossing
the Flint River to the west side of Garland Street, then north along the west
side of Garland Street to the north side of West Second Avenue, thence running
east on the north side of West Second Avenue, thence running east on the north
side of Second Avenue to the east side of Second Avenue to the east side of
Payne Street, then south on the east side of Payne Street to the Flint River
crossing to the east side of Harrison Street to the south side of East Court
Street, then west on Court Street to the west side of Beach Street including
all streets and avenues and alleys within the above named district.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-23-1917)
§ 37-10 POLES OR OVERHEAD WIRES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall be allowed or permitted to place poles, or string overhead
wires for electric light, electric power, cable television system, telephone,
telegraph or electric signals, except street lights, traffic signal lights,
fire alarm system and wires and cables to such appurtenances owned or operated
by or for a governmental agency, within the underground district of the City.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-23-1917)
§ 37-11 PLACING TRANSFORMERS ON OVERHEAD STRUCTURES.
   Nothing in this article shall be so construed as to prevent the placing of
transformers on overhead structures within the underground district; provided,
that they are placed in a suitable manner and approved by the Electrical
Inspector.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-23-1917)
§ 37-12 ELECTRICAL METAL RACEWAY WORKS.
   Nothing in this article shall prevent what is known as electrical metal
raceway work on the walls of buildings in the underground district; provided,
that a permit is first obtained from the Electrical Inspector and the work is
approved by him or her.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-23-1917)
CHAPTER 38: RAILROADS
Section
   
38-1   Blocking traffic
   
38-2   Violations
   
38-3   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Stopping at railroad crossing, see §§
28-84,
28-85
§ 38-1 BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for a railroad company to permit any of its
trains to continuously block vehicular traffic on a public street or highway
for five minutes or more at a time.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for a railroad company to permit successive train
movements to block vehicular traffic on any public street or highway until all
vehicular traffic previously delayed by such train movements for five minutes
or more has been cleared or a period of at least five minutes has elapsed
between the train movements.
(Ord. 2425, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 3154, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 38-2 VIOLATIONS.
   Each five-minute interval that vehicular traffic has been blocked under this
chapter shall be a separate violation; provided, that blocking caused by
accident or mechanical failure shall not be offenses hereunder.
(Ord. 2425, passed 2-18-1974; Ord. 3154, passed 1-14-1991)
§ 38-3 PENALTY.
   Any railroad company or corporation owning, using or having in charge any
engine, car or train of cars by means of which or violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be caused or suffered, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to the penalty imposed under §
1-7 of this Code.
(Ord. 2425, passed 2-18-1974)
CHAPTER 39: REFUSE, GARBAGE AND WEEDS
Section
Article I. In General
   
39-1   Illegal dumping
Article II. Litter, Wastes and the Like
Division 1. Generally
   
39-2   Definitions
   
39-3   Enforcement
   
39-4   Deposit of dangerous substances
   
39-5   Depositing of litter in public places
   
39-6   Use of public receptacles
   
39-7   Duty of property owners to keep premises free from litter
   
39-8   Dumping fill dirt and the like
   
39-9   Responsibility for litter in multiple dwellings
   
39-10   Dumping of litter in public waters
   
39-11   A violation deemed a civil infraction
   
39-11.1   Abatement of nuisance
   
39-11.2   Failure to abate nuisance; City removal costs
   
39-11.3   Notice to the owner and all persons interested in the premises
   
39-11.4   Costs a lien; assessment
Division 2. Separation and Disposal
   
39-12   Garbage, waste — domestic
   
39-13   Same — commercial
   
39-14   Rubbish
   
39-15   Dead animals
   
39-16   Animal and fowl manure
   
39-17   Infectious materials
   
39-18   Domestic waste
   
39-18.1   Compost material
   
39-18.2   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
Division 3. Receptacles
   
39-19   Single- or two-family dwellings
   
39-20   Multiple dwellings
   
39-20.1   Businesses — enclosures required; exceptions
   
39-21   Broken or illegal receptacles
   
39-22   Receptacle limit — time for placement; penalty
   
39-23   Portable receptacles required for certain occupancies
   
39-24   Large moveable receptacles — approval of location, size and the like
   
39-25   Same — permit required; fee; revocation
   
39-26   Location
   
39-26.5   Penalty — designation as municipal civil infraction
Division 4. Collection
   
39-27   Private waste collections
   
39-28   Domestic waste
   
39-29   Commercial wastes
   
39-29.1   Community garden and noncommercial greenhouse wastes
   
39-30   Charges for disposal of commercial and construction waste
   
39-31   Frequency of collection
Article III. Dumping Grounds
   
39-32   License — required; “dumping ground” defined
   
39-33   Same — application; approval
   
39-34   Same — fees; issuance; term; report of change in operations and the
like
   
39-35   Same — deposit required to cover cost of fire calls
   
39-36   Same — suspension or revocation
   
39-37   Blowing of material onto streets and the like to be prevented
   
39-38   Procedure for burning
   
39-39   Use of sanitary fill
   
39-40   Placing garbage, offal and the like on dumping ground prohibited
   
39-41   Operation contrary to article deemed public nuisance; abatement and
removal of nuisance
   
39-41.1   City sanitary landfill — designation
   
39-41.2   Same — use generally
   
39-41.3   Same — rules and regulations controlling use
Article IV. Weeds, Grass and the Like
   
39-42   “Noxious weeds” defined
   
39-43   Accumulation of growth of weeds, grass, harmful vegetation deemed
nuisance
   
39-43.1   Nuisance prohibited; removal
   
39-43.1.A   Violation deemed a civil infraction
   
39-43.2   Abatement of nuisance
   
39-44   Notice of abatement; by publication
   
39-45   Failure to abate nuisance; City removal costs
   
39-46   Costs a lien; assessment
Cross-reference:
   Covering of trucks hauling trash, debris and the like, see §
28-148
   Placing rubbish and the like into rivers or streams declared a nuisance, see
§
30-8
   Prohibition against placing rubbish, filth and the like in public parks, see
§
33-6
   Prohibition against leaving rubbish in streets, see §
42-12
   Storage of rubbish, wastepaper and the like at airport, see §
5-32
   Throwing glass, rubbish and the like into streets and private property and
the like, declared nuisance, see §
30-2
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
   All of the landfills in the State of Michigan have prohibited the deposit of
compost materials within their respective boundaries, if the materials are
contained in plastic bags/containers. The City of Flint, to allow curbside
pickup of compost materials, must cause delivery of the compost material in a
manner and fashion acceptable to the landfill we are presently dealing with,
and any other landfills in the future who may become the successful low bidder
for disposal of compost materials.
§ 39-1 ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   (a)   Except as provided in the provisions of this chapter regulating the
collection and removal of garbage, rubbish; refuse; compost; construction
waste; auto bodies, tires and parts; or other waste materials, it shall be
unlawful to dump, deposit or otherwise drop or leave any rubbish; refuse;
compost; garbage; construction waste; auto bodies, tires and parts; materials
or other waste products, on any property or premises within the City unless the
property or premises is a dumping site properly licensed by the City under this
chapter or unless a proper permit has been obtained. Any person, firm, company
or corporation, or person, employee or agent acting on behalf of the person,
firm, company or corporation may temporarily deposit such garbage, rubbish,
refuse or waste material on their own commercial or residential property or
premises in containers approved by State or other local law for a period not to
exceed 24 hours. In no case shall anyone be allowed to dump, deposit, leave or
otherwise drop garbage, rubbish, refuse or waste material on a property or
premises if the dumping, depositing, leaving or dropping is hazardous or
detrimental to public health.
   (b)   The illegal dumping of materials listed in subsection (a) is declared
to be a public nuisance, which justifies taking firm action to abate the public
nuisance, including the seizure, impoundment and forfeiture of motor vehicles
used to facilitate this nuisance activity.
   (c)   A person or his or her agent or employee, who owns, leases, operates
or maintains a motor vehicle shall not use that motor vehicle, nor permit it to
be used, for such illegal dumping upon public or private property, without a
permit.
   (d)   A person who violates this section is guilty of creating a public
nuisance.
   (e)   The motor vehicle and its contents, including a tractor, trailer or
any other equipment used to facilitate the illegal dumping, are also declared a
public nuisance.
   (f)   Where there is probable cause to believe that a motor vehicle has been
or is being used in violation of this section, a police officer shall seize and
impound the motor vehicle.
   (g)   Within 30 days of receiving notice of the seizure, the owner of a
motor vehicle seized and impounded under this section who wishes to contest the
forfeiture of the seized property shall submit to the Flint Chief Legal
Officer’s office in City Hall, a notice contesting the forfeiture and
requesting that the Flint Chief Legal Officer’s office file a civil nuisance
abatement action in the appropriate Circuit Court. Failure to file notice
contesting the forfeiture within 30 days of receiving the notice of seizure
shall result in the automatic administrative forfeiture of the motor vehicle to
the City.
   (h)   Owner of a motor vehicle includes a person in whose name the motor
vehicle is titled and/or registered and/or any lienholder whose lien has been
filed in the office of the Secretary of State prior to the commencement of the
nuisance abatement action, as well as a person who is deemed by law to be a
constructive owner.
   (i)   Proof of knowledge of the existence of the public nuisance on the part
of the owner, or his or her agent or employee, is not required.
   (j)   A public nuisance shall be sanctioned, enjoined and abated as set
forth in this section and Circuit Court rule.
   (k)   The provisions of this section provide additional sanctions and
remedies for illegal dumping beyond those found in State and local law, and are
not intended to compromise, limit or provide a substitute for the sanctions and
remedies found in State and local law.
   (l)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a misdemeanor
and is subject to a maximum of 90 days in jail and/or the following fines:
      (1)   First offense, $250.00;
      (2)   Second offense, $350.00; and
      (3)   Third and each additional offense, $500.00.
   (m)   In addition to any other penalty or sanction provided in this section,
the Court may require as restitution that the defendant pay either or both of
the following:
      (1)   The cost of removing all litter which is the subject of the
violation and the costs of damages to any land, water, wildlife, vegetation or
other natural resource or to any facility damaged by the violation of this
section. Money collected under this subsection shall be distributed to the
governmental entity bringing the enforcement action; and/or
      (2)   The reasonable costs associated with the seizure and impoundment of
any vehicle used to further a violation of this section. Money collected under
this subsection shall be distributed to the governmental entity that seized and
impounded the vehicle involved in the violation of this section.
   (n)   In addition to any other penalty or sanction provided for in this
section, the Court may impose community service in the form of labor to clean
up and remove rubbish; refuse; compost; construction waste; auto bodies, tires
and parts; or other waste materials on any property that has been identified by
the City as requiring cleanup.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 3524, passed
5-5-2004)
ARTICLE II. LITTER, WASTES AND THE LIKE
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 39-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. The miscellaneous waste materials, including garbage,
rubbish, ashes and waste, including construction waste, resulting from the
operation of business enterprises and institutions, including multifamily
dwellings containing seven or more units, but excludes trade waste.
   COMPOST. All organic materials which grow on the property which are to be
disposed of, such as grass clippings, vegetable and other garden debris, weed,
leaves, plants, clippings from hedges and shrubs, branches or tree trimmings
less than four feet in length and two inches in diameter from trees and bushes
provided that none of the items were produced from the work of commercial
landscape, tree trimming service or utility company that can be converted to
compost humus. It does not include stumps, agricultural wastes, animal wastes,
roots, sewage sludge or garbage.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Waste from building construction, alteration, demolition
or repair, and dirt from excavations.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. The waste material resulting from the usual routine
housekeeping and includes garbage, rubbish and ashes resulting from the usual
routine housekeeping and including garbage, rubbish and ashes generated from
single-family detached dwellings or multifamily dwellings containing six or
fewer units.
   GARBAGE. All waste animal, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable matter incident to
the use, preparation and storage of food.
   LITTER. Any garbage, rubbish, waste material or other substance placed or
allowed to remain on the ground or in any other manner constituting a nuisance.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Certain discarded products incident to housekeeping and
commercial enterprises, as further defined in this section.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   TRADE WASTE. The waste material resulting from industrial operation and is
not classified as municipal waste.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3194, passed 1-27-1992; Ord. 3456, passed 6-
12-2000)
§ 39-3 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works and Utilities to carry
out, supervise and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-4 DEPOSIT OF DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall deposit, leave or allow to remain in any public street,
alley or public place or any private place or premises, any glass, metal,
stone, earthenware, tacks, nails, cinders, medicine, poisons or other
substances of a nature likely to cause injury to children, travelers or
pedestrians or to injure any animal or which might damage any vehicle. No
person shall dispose of any medicine, drug or remedy containing a drug of any
kind whatsoever, whether it is in a liquid, tablet, capsule, pill or other
form, by throwing or placing the same in a trash container or other container
or upon any street, highway, boulevard, alley or public place or on any private
property in the City. Medicines or poisons from domestic sources, hospitals,
clinics, convalescent homes, nursing homes and similar sources shall be
disposed of by flushing into a water closet or other fixture or otherwise
disposed of in a manner acceptable to the Department of Health.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-5 DEPOSITING OF LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any litter on any street,
sidewalk, alley, public or private property, except on approved private or
public dumps.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-6 USE OF PUBLIC RECEPTACLES.
   Public receptacles are for use of pedestrians only, and shall not be used by
vendors or by occupants of adjacent premises. Newspapers, handbills and
wastepaper or other litter shall not be scattered or thrown upon public or
private property, but shall be deposited in private or public receptacles.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-7 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO KEEP PREMISES FREE FROM LITTER.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the owner or person in control of any
premises, vacant or occupied, to keep his or her premises, sidewalks and all
adjoining public property between the center of street and center of alley free
of litter at all times. All litter removed shall be placed in proper
receptacles or removed to an approved disposal location.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the property lying between the
outermost edge of the street right- of-way and the street curb or the drainage
course paralleling the street where there is no curb, shall be deemed to be the
responsibility of the person hereunder for the property abutting the street
right-of- way, provided that the person shall not be responsible for dead,
dangerous, diseased or insect-infected trees located on the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-8 DUMPING FILL DIRT AND THE LIKE.
   Earth or other materials shall not be placed on or removed from any premises
unless the written permission of the owner of the land is obtained and
exhibited on request of the enforcing officer by the operator of the vehicle
used for loading, transporting or dumping the material. Such permission shall
be subject to zoning regulations and to the requirements that no nuisance shall
be created.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-9 RESPONSIBILITY FOR LITTER IN MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   In every multiple dwelling occupied by five families or over in which the
owner does not reside, there shall be a responsible person designated by the
owner for the purposes of compliance with this chapter. Both this person and
the owner shall be responsible for maintaining the entire premises including
the yards and one-half of the alley, street and any easement adjoining the
dwelling free of all litter.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-10 DUMPING OF LITTER IN PUBLIC WATERS.
   No person shall deposit any litter in the waters of the Flint River of any
of its tributaries or connected waterways in the City.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-11 A VIOLATION DEEMED A CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A violation of §§
39-5,
39-6,
39-7 and
39-9 of this article shall be designated as a municipal civil infraction
pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21. The Court may also direct the City to proceed to abate the nuisance in
the matter as set forth herein. The costs incurred by the City in the abatement
of the nuisance may be added to the civil infraction fine. The costs incurred
by the City shall also become a lien upon the land as provided by law, with the
lien being discharged upon payment of the charges imposed by the City for the
abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 3562, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 39-11.1 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   The City Administrator is authorized, either through the Office of the City
Administrator or through such other City departments or division to which the
City Administrator may delegate the authority, to cause the abatement of the
nuisance defined in this article in accord with the procedures set forth
through the applicable laws and §§
1-10 through
1-21 of this Code.
(Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 3563, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 39-11.2 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE; CITY REMOVAL COSTS.
   (a)   When an owner has failed to abate the nuisance or refuses to eliminate
the nuisance after receiving notice as provided in this Code, the City
Administrator shall cause the nuisance to be abated.
   (b)   All the costs incurred in the abatement of the nuisance shall be the
expense of the property owner. All costs incurred in the abatement of the
nuisance shall become a lien against the subject property.
   (c)   The City department or division undertaking the abatement process
under this article shall keep records of all expenses relating to the abated
nuisance with costs assigned to each parcel of land or lot property description
and the person responsible for the land.
(Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 3564, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 39-11.3 NOTICE TO THE OWNER AND ALL PERSONS INTERESTED IN THE PREMISES.
   (a)   Whenever the authorized person shall find compost, rubbish, waste,
garbage or litter on private premises within the City in violation of this
chapter, he or she may issue a municipal civil infraction violation notice that
property is in violation before a municipal civil infraction citation is
issued.
   (b)   The municipal civil infraction violation notice may be issued in
accordance with §§
1-10 through
1-21.
   (c)   If at the expiration of the time stated in the notice the owner or any
person interested in the premises described in the notice has not corrected or
abated the condition of the premises, the City may cause the abatement of the
condition. The City shall issue a bill to the property owner for all costs
incurred in the abatement of the violation. Failure to pay all costs incurred
in the abatement of the violation shall cause the amount billed to become a
lien against the property.
(Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 3565, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 39-11.4 COSTS A LIEN; ASSESSMENT.
   All costs incurred by the City in connection with removing, eliminating or
abating the nuisance shall be a lien upon the land where the nuisance was
caused and all the costs of the abatement remaining unpaid may be recovered by
special assessment proceedings, pursuant to provisions contained in the Charter
of the City, and shall be collected in the same manner that other special
assessments are collected under the Charter or by any other lawful means
available to the City.
(Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
DIVISION 2. SEPARATION AND DISPOSAL
§ 39-12 GARBAGE, WASTE — DOMESTIC.
   All garbage intended for collection shall be drained of free liquid. The
garbage shall be wrapped in several thicknesses of paper. No garbage or food
waste of any description shall be placed or stored in an uncovered receptacle,
nor shall garbage be burned in any receptacle or incinerator of a type which
has not been approved by the Director of Public Works and Utilities. All
garbage and refuse intended for collection by the Department of Public Works
and Utilities of the City of Flint shall be prepared for collection in a manner
consistent with such rules and regulations as the Director of the Department of
Public Works and Utilities shall from time to time establish.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2779, passed 8-25-1980; Ord. 3456, passed 6-
12-2000)
§ 39-13 SAME — COMMERCIAL.
   Garbage intended for collection from establishments for group eating such as
clubs, restaurants and institutions; and establishments such as markets,
commission houses, grocery stores, fruit and vegetable stands, bakeries,
canneries, butcher shops and similar establishments, need not be wrapped.
Properly stored commercial garbage shall be collected by the Department of
Public Works and Utilities under such rules and regulations as the Director of
Public Works and Utilities shall from time to time establish. Undrained garbage
of liquid or semi-liquid nature will not be collected, whether in containers or
not. No garbage or food waste of any description shall be placed or stored in
an uncovered receptacle, nor shall garbage be burned in any receptacle or
unapproved incinerator.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-14 RUBBISH.
   Properly stored domestic rubbish shall be collected by the Department of
Public Works and Utilities. The burning of rubbish in open fires is prohibited
except as authorized by this Code or other ordinances.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-15 DEAD ANIMALS.
   All small dead animals, if kept separate from garbage and rubbish will be
collected without charge upon notice to the Department of Public Works and
Utilities; provided, that a charge will be made by the Department of Public
Works and Utilities for all such animals collected from animal hospitals,
kennels and the like. Owners shall be responsible for the removal and disposal
of large dead animals weighing over 100 pounds.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-16 ANIMAL AND FOWL MANURE.
   Animal and fowl manure and other noxious wastes from commercial
establishments shall be considered as commercial rubbish. After due notice, the
Department of Public Works and Utilities shall be responsible for its
collection and disposal on the terms and conditions provided in this chapter
for commercial waste. The manner of notification shall be prescribed by the
Director of Public Works and Utilities. Manure from domestic pets shall be,
like garbage, wrapped and placed in rubbish receptacles.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-17 INFECTIOUS MATERIALS.
   All materials which may be infectious such as bandages, dressings, sputum
cups, soiled tissues and the like from hospitals, clinics, convalescent homes,
nursing homes, doctor’s offices or any other source shall be burned in an
incinerator approved by the Department of Building and Safety. Where
incineration approval cannot be granted by the Department of Building and
Safety, these infectious materials shall be wrapped and placed into the rubbish
receptacles or otherwise disposed of in a manner acceptable to the Director of
Health.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-18 DOMESTIC WASTE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the City to deposit or place any
combustible material in any lane, street, alley or public place within the City
or upon any private property therein whether owned by the persons or not,
unless the same be properly prepared for collection as provided in §
39-12.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2779, passed 8-25-1980; Ord. 3456, passed 6-
12-2000)
§ 39-18.1 COMPOST MATERIAL.
   All compost materials for collection shall be placed in paper bags with a
maximum capacity of 32 gallons or an open container with a maximum capacity of
32 gallons, or as required by the City’s landfill and/or compost contractor.
(Ord. 3456, passed 6-12-2000)
§ 39-18.2 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §§
39-12,
39-13,
39-14,
39-18 or
39-18.1 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to
§§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3567, passed 6-9-2004)
DIVISION 3. RECEPTACLES
§ 39-19 SINGLE- OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   A proper and sufficient number of portable receptacles for the storage of
garbage and of rubbish between collections shall be provided by each family
residing in a single-family or in a two-family dwelling. It shall be the duty
of the occupants to maintain the receptacles in good repair and in a clean and
sanitary condition and to store rubbish and garbage properly therein.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-20 MULTIPLE DWELLINGS.
   In the case of a building housing more than two families, the owner, lessee
or agent of the premises shall provide for each family a proper and sufficient
number of receptacles for the storage of garbage and of rubbish between
collections. The owner, lessee, agent or a caretaker of the receptacles shall
maintain in good repair and in a clean and satisfactory condition. Unless a
permit for a stationary or large moveable receptacle has been issued, these
receptacles shall be of a portable type.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-20.1 BUSINESSES — ENCLOSURES REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   In the case of a business, all trash collection and storage areas not
located within a fully enclosed building or structure shall be completely
enclosed by a solid wall, solid fence, dense living hedge and/or solid gate not
less than six feet in height.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Businesses located in the Downtown Development District of the City
as defined in §
2-125 of this Code of ordinances; or
      (2)   Any business that is located in the E Heavy Commercial — Limited
Manufacturing District, F Intermediate Manufacturing District or G Heavy
Manufacturing District zoning classification, as defined in
Chapter 50 of this Code of ordinances.
(Ord. 3204, passed 6-8-1992)
§ 39-21 BROKEN OR ILLEGAL RECEPTACLES.
   After due notice, in a manner and form prescribed by the Director of Public
Works and Utilities, has been given to the responsible party to dispose of
defective or illegal waste receptacles and outdoor trash burners, they may be
collected as rubbish by the Department of Public Works and Utilities if they
remain on public property. No defective or illegal receptacle shall be used for
storage of garbage or rubbish.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-22 RECEPTACLE LIMIT — TIME FOR PLACEMENT; PENALTY.
   (a)   (1)   All discarded property, junk, garbage, and rubbish shall be
placed in a bag or approved receptacle for collection.
      (2)   All discarded property, junk, garbage and rubbish placed in a
receptacle shall first be placed into a bag.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, an APPROVED RECEPTACLE OR BAG shall be a
container or bag no larger than 32 gallons designed for the purpose of holding
discarded property, junk, garbage and rubbish.
   (c)   Discarded property, junk, garbage or rubbish shall not be placed at
the designated place for collection more than 12 hours before 7:00 a.m. of the
day scheduled for collection.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place more than 20 approved
receptacles or bags along with three pieces of furniture at the place
designated for collection unless an appropriate permit has been acquired from
the City of Flint Treasurer’s office.
      (1)   The cost of the permit shall be designated in the master fee
schedule.
      (2)   The permit shall be in the form of a sticker that shall be
conspicuously placed on each item which exceeds the 20 receptacle/bag limit.
   (e)   Any item that does not fit within a bag within a receptacle must be
affixed with a permit.
   (f)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be a municipal civil
infraction pursuant to
Chapter 1, §§
1-10 through
1-21.
      (1)   Each item that exceeds the limit set forth in subsection (d) that
is placed in the designated place for collection without a permit shall
constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Each day that a violation of this section shall exist shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 3600, passed 6-24-2004; Ord. 3626, passed 10-25-2004)
§ 39-23 PORTABLE RECEPTACLES REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN OCCUPANCIES.
   All receptacles for the storage of garbage, rubbish and ashes shall be of a
portable type at the following building occupancies:
   (a)   For storage of garbage in dwellings containing four families or more;
and
   (b)   For storage of garbage from an individual commercial establishment
whose monthly bill for garbage collection from the City establishes the need
for nine or more portable garbage cans or 20-gallon capacity between
collections.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-24 LARGE MOVEABLE RECEPTACLES — APPROVAL OF LOCATION, SIZE AND THE LIKE.
   The locations, size and nature of large moveable receptacles shall be
approved by the Superintendent of Waste Collection.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-25 SAME — PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; REVOCATION.
   Where large moveable receptacles are authorized, they shall not be installed
until a permit has been obtained from the Department of Public Works and
Utilities. A permit shall be issued only after payment of a fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code. Sufficient receptacles shall be provided to hold two
weeks’ accumulation of refuse. Any permit can be revoked for cause by the
Department of Public Works and Utilities.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-26 LOCATION.
   (a)   Receptacles shall be conveniently accessible for collection service
and for all users. All portable receptacles for garbage or rubbish shall be
located in the rear of the premises except on collection day or the evening
previous to date of collection. In residential areas, receptacles for refuse
shall be placed in a location easily accessible to the collector, as close as
possible to the driveway and within approximately five feet of the curb within
the area between the sidewalk and curb or edge of the traveled portion of the
public right-of-way.
   (b)   Any person who shall establish to the satisfaction of the City
Administrator, that he or she suffers from a physical disability such as to
make it impossible to move the receptacle to the location above specified,
shall not be required to place the receptacle in such location for removal and
the receptacle shall be picked up in a reasonable accessible location outside
of the residence of the disabled person. In order to be entitled to the service
above specified, a disabled person shall make application to the City
Administrator, and shall, if required by the City Administrator, present
medical evidence in support of the claim of disability. In the event there is a
dispute relative to the existence of the disability the City Administrator
shall have the right to request a medical evaluation by the City Physician. The
City Administrator shall have the right to promulgate reasonable rules and
regulations in order to implement and carry out the above procedures.
   (c)   Commercial and multiple dwellings’ refuse shall be located as
indicated on the permit issued for use of the containers and receptacles.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968; Ord. 2221, passed 6-22-1970)
§ 39-26.5 PENALTY — DESIGNATION AS MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Any person, association or corporation found in violation of §§
39-19,
39-20,
39-20.1 or
39-21 shall be found responsible of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 3568, passed 6-9-2004)
DIVISION 4. COLLECTION
§ 39-27 PRIVATE WASTE COLLECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than employees of the Department
of Public Works and Utilities, licensed garbage and refuse collectors or other
authorized persons, to disturb, collect or in any other manner interfere with
garbage and rubbish placed in the streets, alleys and public places for
collection by the City authorities, or to interfere in any manner with any
garbage and rubbish receptacles. The Director of Public Works and Utilities
shall have the right to specify the time and method of storage, collection and
disposal by any authorized collector.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-28 DOMESTIC WASTE.
   Domestic waste shall be collected without charge; except, that waste
material scattered on the ground or placed in other than proper receptacles as
specified may be classed as commercial waste and may be charged for at special
rates to be determined by the Director of Public Works and Utilities and
approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-29 COMMERCIAL WASTES.
   The Department of Public Works and Utilities shall collect garbage or
rubbish, or both, from a commercial establishment, trailer park or apartment
building, subject to payment therefor as provided. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit the party responsible for creating commercial waste from
entering into a contract with an authorized private collector or otherwise
disposing of the waste; provided, that it is stored and disposed of in such a
manner as to create no nuisance.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-29.1 COMMUNITY GARDEN AND NONCOMMERCIAL GREENHOUSE WASTES.
   (a)   The Department of Public Works and Utilities shall collect garbage or
rubbish, or both from community gardens and noncommercial greenhouses subject
to payment as provided for by the terms and specifications set by the Director
of Public Works. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the party
responsible for creating the waste from entering into a contract with an
authorized private collector or disposing of the waste, provided that it is
stored and disposed of in such a manner as to create no nuisance.
   (b)   COMMUNITY GARDEN means an area of land managed and maintained by a
group of individuals to grow and harvest food crops and/or non-food ornamental
crops, such as flowers, for personal or group use, consumption or donation.
Community gardens may be divided into separate plots for cultivation by one or
more individuals or may be farmed collectively by members of the group and may
include common areas maintained and used by group members.
   (c)   NONCOMMERCIAL GREENHOUSE means a building made of glass, plastic or
fiberglass in which plants are cultivated with no retail sales of the plants or
any other materials on site.
(Ord. 3771, passed 6-14-2010)
§ 39-30 CHARGES FOR DISPOSAL OF COMMERCIAL AND CONSTRUCTION WASTE.
   The Director of Public Works and Utilities shall prepare terms and
specifications relative to the disposal of commercial and construction waste.
The cost of the disposal and the terms and conditions governing the payment
therefor shall be established by the Director of Public Works and Utilities;
provided, that payment for the service shall be made within 30 days of the date
of issuance of the invoice therefor. No person failing to remit in accordance
with these terms shall receive further service. The Director of Public Works
and Utilities may, in his or her discretion, require payment in advance or such
security as he or she deems appropriate for such services.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
§ 39-31 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   The collection of all municipal waste is made condition on the observance of
all provisions of this chapter. Collection is subject to weather and other
conditions beyond the control of the Department of Public Works and Utilities.
For commercial, construction or trade wastes, the Department of Public Works
and Utilities shall be made. Collection frequency shall be determined by the
Department of Public Works and Utilities.
(Ord. 2027, passed 2-5-1968)
ARTICLE III. DUMPING GROUNDS
§ 39-32 LICENSE — REQUIRED; “DUMPING GROUND” DEFINED.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate a dumping
ground within the City unless the person shall have obtained a license to
maintain and operate the dumping ground in accordance with the provisions of
this article.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, a DUMPING GROUND is defined as any
area used, kept, operated or maintained or which permits to be used, kept,
operated or maintained for the depositing, dropping, dumping or placing thereon
of tin cans, rubbish, glass, waste products of any description, except where
temporarily deposited either for City collection or other removal from the
premises.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952)
§ 39-33 SAME — APPLICATION; APPROVAL.
   (a)   Any person desiring to maintain or operate a dumping ground shall make
application for a license upon a form to be provided by the City Clerk, which
application shall set forth:
      (1)   The name of the person;
      (2)   The person to be in control of operations or to manage the dumping
ground;
      (3)   The area to be used as a dumping ground, including the legal
description thereof;
      (4)   The nature of the waste product to be received at the dumping
ground and the principal source thereof;
      (5)   Hours of operation; and
      (6)   Type of operation to be conducted thereon.
   (b)   No such application shall be approved by the City Council until:
      (1)   There shall be endorsed thereon the approval of the Department of
Public Health as to the area proposed to be used as a dumping ground. No
dumping ground shall be approved by the Department of Public Health in any part
of the City where the material to be dumped thereon will be detrimental to the
public health in any way whatsoever;
      (2)   There shall be endorsed thereon the approval of the Fire
Department. No dumping ground shall be approved by the Fire Department if the
location will create a fire hazard to persons or property adjacent thereto;
      (3)   There shall be endowed thereon the approval of the Department of
Public Works and Utilities. No dumping ground shall be approved where the
elevation of the location would be so altered by dumping operations as to be
detrimental to surrounding areas; and
      (4)   The applicant shall have demonstrated to the City Clerk or to any
examining official designated by the City Administrator, his or her familiarity
with the terms of this article and his or her ability to maintain and operate a
dumping ground in strict conformity with the terms of this article.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952)
§ 39-34 SAME — FEES; ISSUANCE; TERM; REPORT OF CHANGE IN OPERATIONS, AND THE
LIKE.
   The applicant for a license under this article shall pay to the City Clerk,
at the time of filing the application, a license fee together with a deposit.
The license fee and deposit shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of the City Code. Upon approval of the application by the City
Council, the City Clerk shall issue a license to operate the dumping ground,
which license shall expire on April 30 following the approval, unless sooner
revoked or suspended as provided in this article. In the event of the failure
of the City Council to approve the license, the license fee and deposit herein
required shall be returned to the applicant. Any change during the license year
in the area being used, the persons in control of operations or managing the
dumping ground, or the type of operation to be conducted shall be reported to
the City Clerk in writing.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952; Ord. 3414, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 39-35 SAME — DEPOSIT REQUIRED TO COVER COST OF FIRE CALLS.
   (a)   The deposit required by §
39-34 shall be held by the City to cover any cost or expense resulting from a
fire call deemed necessary by the Fire Department of the City to put out or
control any fire ignited or permitted to burn in violation of the terms of this
article or to abate any nuisance attendant thereto, and to cover any cost or
expense resulting from a fire call made by the owner or operator of any dumping
ground.
   (b)   For the purpose of this section, a minimum cost shall be established
for each fire call, which cost shall not include damage to fire hose or
equipment. The cost shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of
the City Code. In the event of incurring such cost or damage to hose or
equipment, the Fire Department shall notify the owner or operator of the
dumping ground of the cost and of the claimed damage to hose or equipment
immediately upon discovery thereof following any fire and shall have the right
to draw upon the deposit by invoice to the City clear, with duplicate copy to
the licensee. The licensee shall have the right to inspect the damaged hose or
equipment. Upon receipt of such invoice the licensee shall, within five days,
deposit such additional sums with the City Clerk as may be necessary to
reestablish the deposit at the original sum. In the event the additional sums
have not been redeposited within the five-day period, the license shall be
suspended automatically without further notice to the licensee.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952; Ord. 1672, passed 5-7-1962; Ord. 3414, passed 2-
8-1999)
§ 39-36 SAME — SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (a)   Upon notice to the City Council by the City Clerk of violation of any
of the terms of this article, or default in any of the conditions of this
article, the City Council may suspend or revoke any license granted under this
article. Before suspension or revocation by the City Council, notice of hearing
thereon before the City Council shall be served upon the licensee not less than
five days prior to the date which shall be set by the City Council for the
hearing. The notice of hearing shall be served personally upon the licensee or
upon any agent or employee of the licensee.
   (b)   In the event of violation of any of the terms or conditions of §§
39-37 through
39-39 hereof, the license may be summarily suspended for not more than seven
days upon the order of the Director of Public Health.
   (c)   In the event that any license is suspended, no burning operations
shall be conducted on the dumping ground except under the supervision and
direction of a member of the Fire Department of the City. The cost of the
supervision shall be deducted from the $200.00 deposit required by §
39-34.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952)
§ 39-37 BLOWING OF MATERIAL ONTO STREETS AND THE LIKE TO BE PREVENTED.
   Every person licensed under this article shall so operate and maintain the
dumping ground as to prevent any material which may be thereon from being blown
out by the wind onto the streets, alleys or other public places or upon private
property of any other person.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952)
§ 39-38 PROCEDURE FOR BURNING.
   Any person licensed under this article shall burn all combustibles upon the
dumping ground in the following manner, except as otherwise provided; and
except, that no burning of combustibles shall be permitted on the first day of
the week commonly called Sunday.
   (a)   Beginning January 1, 1963 and thereafter there shall be no open
burning of combustibles, except flammable liquids upon the dumping grounds.
Incinerators used for the burning of combustibles on the dumping grounds may be
of any type approved by the Director of Public Health of the City.
   (b)   No burned material shall be commingled with other material on the
dumping ground unless all fires in the former have been thoroughly
extinguished. No fire or any part thereof, including the ashes, shall be moved
after burning until and unless all fire shall have been completely
extinguished.
   (c)   No fire shall be ignited or permitted to burn unless an employee or
attendant is present on the dumping ground.
   (d)   No rubber shall be burned.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952; Ord. 1684, passed 7-23-1962; Ord. 2004, passed
10-2-1967)
§ 39-39 USE OF SANITARY FILL.
   Any licensee may operate a dumping ground, or a part thereof, without
burning any material thereon; provided, that the licensee shall maintain and
operate such area as a sanitary fill in compliance with the following
provisions.
   (a)   The area to be so used shall be designated in the license application.
   (b)   No burning of combustibles shall be permitted on any dumping ground or
part thereof operated as a sanitary fill.
   (c)   All fill material or dumped waste and materials dropped therein shall
be compacted in such manner as to provide a firm, solid base of consistent
density. This compacting operation shall be performed at the completion of
operations but in any event at least daily.
   (d)   All compacted fill material shall be covered with not less than 24
inches of dirt. This covering operation shall be performed at the completion of
filling operations but in any event at least daily. If the fill material is of
a type as to afford vermin harborage, the Department of Public Health may
require such additional fill as is necessary to eliminate the harborage.
   (e)   Final fill elevations resulting from sanitary fill operations as
provided herein, shall not be established which will be detrimental to
surrounding area. The final fill elevations shall be established by the
Department of Public Works and Utilities prior to the commencing operations at
any specific location.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952)
§ 39-40 PLACING GARBAGE, OFFAL AND THE LIKE ON DUMPING GROUND PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any
garbage or offal or septic tank cleanings upon any dumping ground licensed
under this article.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952)
§ 39-41 OPERATION CONTRARY TO ARTICLE DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT AND
REMOVAL OF NUISANCE.
   The City Council does hereby find and declare that the operation of a
dumping ground contrary to the provisions of this article shall constitute a
public nuisance and the City Administrator may order the removal and abatement
of the nuisance and shall cause the same to be removed and abated.
(Ord. 1045, passed 10-20-1952)
§ 39-41.1 CITY SANITARY LANDFILL — DESIGNATION.
   The Director of Public Works and Utilities of the City shall designate an
area owned by the City or owned and operated by an approved contractor to be
used as a compost site for the composting of yard rubbish, subject to the
approval of the Flint City Council. The method of collection and disposal of
the yard rubbish will be governed by rules and regulations developed by the
Director of Public Works and Utilities, subject to approval of the rules and
regulations of the City Council.
(Ord. 2163, passed 9-29-1969; Ord. 3158, passed 2-11-1991; Ord. 3198, passed 3-
9-1993)
§ 39-41.2 SAME — USE GENERALLY.
   Within the area designated by the Director of the Department of Public Works
under §
39-41.1, residents of the City may deposit materials permitted to be disposed
of in that area.
(Ord. 2163, passed 9-29-1969)
§ 39-41.3 SAME — RULES AND REGULATIONS CONTROLLING USE.
   (a)   The Director of the Department of Public Works shall establish written
rules and regulations to control the operation of the sanitary landfill site
owned by the City, and shall prescribe by such rules and regulations the
material to be deposited in the area the manner in which the material shall be
deposited in the area, the times during which the area shall be available for
use and the method of determining eligibility of persons desiring to use the
area.
   (b)   All rules and regulations promulgated by the Director of the
Department of Public Works, pursuant to the provisions of this section, shall
be submitted to and approved by the City Council before becoming effective.
Following approval of such rules and regulations, a copy of same shall be
conspicuously displayed at the entrance to the sanitary landfill site.
(Ord. 2163, passed 9-29-1969)
ARTICLE IV. WEEDS, GRASS AND THE LIKE
§ 39-42 “NOXIOUS WEEDS” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Canada thistle (Circium arvensis), dodders (any species of
Cuscuta), mustards (Charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of
Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot (Caucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), perennial sowthistle (sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa
incana), ragweed (Ambrosia elatior l.) and poison ivy (Rhus toxicodendron),
poison sumac (Toxicodendron vernix) or any other plant which in the opinion of
the City Administrator is regarded as a common nuisance.
(Ord. 1756, passed 2-24-1964)
§ 39-43 ACCUMULATION OF GROWTH OF WEEDS, GRASS, HARMFUL VEGETATION DEEMED
NUISANCE.
   The accumulation or growth, upon any property in the City, of weeds, grass,
brush or other rank, noxious, poisonous or otherwise harmful vegetation to a
height greater than eight inches, when the growth or accumulation occurs in any
subdivision in which buildings have been erected on 60% of that land along
improved public streets to a depth of 200 feet, or on land within 200 feet of
any structure designed for human occupancy or use, is hereby determined to be
detrimental to the health, comfort, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of
the City and is hereby deemed to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 1756, passed 2-24-1964; Ord. 2989, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 39-43.1 NUISANCE PROHIBITED; REMOVAL.
   (a)   No person having ownership or other interest in or control of lands
shall permit the occurrence on such lands in the condition set forth in §
39-43 above. It shall be the duty of any such person to prevent the occurrence
and to abate, destroy and/or remove the condition described in §
39-43 which has been identified as a nuisance.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the property lying between the
outermost edge of the street right-of-way and the street curb or the drainage
course paralleling the street where there is no curb, shall be deemed to be the
responsibility of the person responsible hereunder for the property abutting
the street right-of-way, provided that the person shall not be responsible for
dead, dangerous, diseased or insect-infected trees located on the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2989, passed 4-28-1986)
§ 39-43.1.A VIOLATION DEEMED A CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Violation of §§
39-42 through
39-43.1 hereof shall be designated as civil infractions and any shall be
subject to a fine of not to exceed $200.00 as determined by the discretion of
the Court. The Court may also direct the City to proceed to abate the nuisance
in the manner set out in §§
39-43.2 through
39-46 hereof. The costs incurred by the City in the abatement of the nuisance
may be added to the civil infraction fine. The costs incurred by the City shall
also become a lien upon the land as provided in §
39-46 hereof, with the lien being discharged upon payment of the charges
imposed by the City for the abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. 3299, passed 5-22-1995; Ord. 3569, passed 6-9-2004; Ord. 3731, passed 11-
19-2008)
§ 39-43.2 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   The City Administrator is authorized, either through the office of the City
Administrator or through such other City departments or divisions to which the
City Administrator may delegate the authority, to cause the abatement of the
nuisance defined in §
39-43 in accord with the procedures set forth through the applicable laws and
§§
1-10 through
1-21 of this Code.
(Ord. 2989, passed 4-28-1986; Ord. 3599, passed 6-24-2004)
§ 39-44 NOTICE OF ABATEMENT; BY PUBLICATION.
   (a)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice to be published twice, during the
month of April, in a newspaper of general circulation in Genesee County,
stating that any nuisance, as defined by §
39-43, shall not be permitted to exist on property in the City and must be
abated, destroyed or removed by the person responsible for the property
beginning May 1, and continuing throughout the months of May, June, July,
August and September of that year, and that failure to do so will result in the
City causing the abatement, destruction or removal of the nuisance and the cost
thereof shall be charged against the owner pursuant to the provisions of §§
39-42 through
39-46 herein.
   (b)   The City shall cause periodic inspections to be made of lands in the
City and when it is found that the lands have thereon such a nuisance, the City
shall notify the owner by posting notice on the property and by mail that the
nuisance must be abated within five days.
   (c)   If the owner fails to abate the nuisance within five days, the City
may abate, destroy or remove the nuisance as many times as necessary during the
months of May, June, July, August and September of the notice year and charge
the cost to the owner of the property.
(Ord. 1756, passed 2-24-1964; Ord. 2989, passed 4-28-1986; Ord. 3114, passed 8-
28-1989; Ord. 3327, passed 4-8-1996; Ord. 3530, passed 5-5-2004)
§ 39-45 FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE; CITY REMOVAL COSTS.
   (a)   When an owner has failed to abate the nuisance or refuses to eliminate
the nuisance after the notice procedure as contained in this article have been
carried out, then the office of the City Administrator shall cause the nuisance
to be abated.
   (b)   All the costs incurred in the abatement of the nuisance shall be the
expense of the owner, except for that street right-of-way abutting single-
family residentially zoned “through lots” (as defined in §
50-1 of the Flint City Code) where the street right- of-way that is parallel or
nearly parallel to the street that carries the property address is separated
from the remaining property by a continuous fence, without a gate or other
opening, that extends from side lot line to side lot line. The City department
or division undertaking the abatement process under this article shall keep
records of all expenses related to the abatement with costs assigned to each
parcel of land or lot property description and the person responsible for the
land.
(Ord. 1756, passed 2-24-1964; Ord. 3028, passed 3-9-1987; Ord. 3327, passed 4-
8-1996)
§ 39-46 COSTS A LIEN; ASSESSMENT.
   All costs incurred by the City in connection with cutting, removing,
destroying, eliminating or abating the nuisance shall be a lien upon the land
where the nuisance was caused and all the costs of the abatement remaining
unpaid may be recovered by special assessment proceedings, pursuant to
provisions contained in the Charter of the City, and shall be collected in the
same manner that other special assessments are collected under the Charter or
by any other unlawful means available to the City.
(Ord. 2989, passed 4-28-1986; Ord. 3327, passed 4-8-1996)
CHAPTER 40: RESERVED
CHAPTER 41: SCHOOLS
Section
   
41-1   Defacing or damaging property and the like
   
41-2   Disturbing session or class prohibited
   
41-3   Disturbing gatherings or functions prohibited
   
41-4   Profane, indecent and the like language prohibited
   
41-5   Presence of unauthorized person on grounds or in buildings prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Regulation governing parking on School Board property, see §
28-98
§ 41-1 DEFACING OR DAMAGING PROPERTY AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   No person shall mark with any substance, or in any other manner deface
or do damage to any building owned, occupied or otherwise used as a school
within the City.
   (b)   No person shall mark with any substance, or in any other manner deface
or do damage to any fence, tree, lawn or other fixture situated on lands owned,
occupied or otherwise used by a school within the City.
(Ord. 1832, passed 4-26-1965; Ord. 1851, passed 6-28-1965)
§ 41-2 DISTURBING SESSION OR CLASS PROHIBITED.
   No person, while on public or private grounds adjacent to any building in
which a school or any class thereof is in session, shall willfully make or
assist in the making of any noise or diversion which disturbs or tends to
disturb the peace, quiet or good order of the school session or class thereof.
(Ord. 1832, passed 4-26-1965; Ord. 1851, passed 6-28-1965)
§ 41-3 DISTURBING GATHERINGS OR FUNCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person while on public or private lands adjacent to any building or lands
owned, occupied or otherwise used by a school within the City, in or on which
any gathering or function is in progress, whether in the day or nighttime,
shall willfully make or assist in the making of any noise or diversion which
disturbs or tends to disturb the peace, quiet or good order of the gathering or
function.
(Ord. 1832, passed 4-26-1965; Ord. 1851, passed 6-28-1965)
§ 41-4 PROFANE, INDECENT AND THE LIKE LANGUAGE PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person, while in any building owned, occupied or otherwise used by
a school within the City, shall utter any profane, indecent or immoral language
towards any person or while within the hearing of any other person.
   (b)   No person, while on any lands owned, occupied or otherwise used by a
school within the City, shall utter any profane, indecent or immoral language
towards any person or while within the hearing of any other person.
(Ord. 1832, passed 4-26-1965; Ord. 1851, passed 6-28-1965)
§ 41-5 PRESENCE OF UNAUTHORIZED PERSON ON GROUNDS OR IN BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   (a)   No person not a student or employee of any school located in the City,
or parent or guardian of any student enrolled therein, shall remain within any
school during normal school hours without securing the written permission of
the principal or person in charge of the school.
   (b)   No person not a student or employee of any school located in the City,
or parent or guardian of any student enrolled therein, shall remain on any
lands owned, occupied or used by any school within the City, and adjacent to a
school, without securing written permission of the principal or person in
charge of the school.
   (b)   The term STUDENT as used herein is hereby defined as any person of
school age and enrolled in the school at which he or she then is present.
(Ord. 1832, passed 4-26-1965; Ord. 1851, passed 6-28-1965)
CHAPTER 42: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Article I. In General
   
42-1   Parade permit required; exceptions
   
42-2   Temporary closing of streets, alleys and the like — authority of Chief
of Police or Traffic Engineer
   
42-2.1   Same — by private persons
   
42-2.2   Street market — authorized; terms and conditions generally
   
42-2.3   Same — licenses not required; sale of food
   
42-2.4   Same — authority of Center City Association to charge fee
   
42-2.5   Same — streets to be kept clean and free of rubbish and debris
   
42-2.6   Same — bond
   
42-2.7   Same — termination of permission to hold sales
   
42-3   Placing hose across sidewalk to service motor vehicle prohibited
   
42-4   Permission to hold public meeting in streets and the like required
   
42-5   Placing obstructions in streets, alleys and the like — permission
required
   
42-6   Same — bond required
   
42-7   Use of street by carpenter, stone mason and the like for cutting, sawing
and the like prohibited; exceptions
   
42-8   Displaying or storing and the like goods on sidewalks
   
42-9   Reserved
   
42-10   Moving buildings
   
42-11   Removing earth, sand and the like from streets and the like prohibited
   
42-12   Leaving vehicles, rubbish and the like in streets prohibited; removal
of vehicles and the like by City at owner’s expense
   
42-13   Covering over vaults, windows and the like in sidewalk
   
42-14   Playing sports in the street
   
42-15   Throwing stones, playing games and the like in streets prohibited
   
42-16   Excavations generally
   
42-17   Erection and maintenance of barriers and the like around obstructions,
excavations and the like
   
42-18   Removal of barricades, lamps and the like; going on property from which
public has been excluded by use of barricades prohibited
   
42-19   Burning rubbish, leaves and the like in street prohibited
   
42-20   Hauling earth, dirt and the like — dropping, scattering and the like
from vehicle prohibited; loading and construction of vehicles
   
42-21   Same — bond required of licensed contractor
   
42-22   Limitation on size and locations of signs over sidewalks
   
42-23   Limitation on size of awnings over sidewalk
   
42-24   Posts or fixtures on sidewalks for signs, awnings and the like
   
42-25   Notice of vacation, discontinuance of streets, alleys or other public
ground; public hearing
   
42-25.1   Adoption of resolution declaring necessity or desirability of
vacating streets, alleys or other public grounds
   
42-25.2   Resolution to specify when Council shall hear objections
   
42-25.3   Notice of hearing held pursuant to § 42-25.2
   
42-25.4   Majority vote of Council to vacate, discontinue streets, alleys or
other public grounds; reservation of easement
   
42-25.5   Recording of resolution vacating and discontinuing streets, alleys or
other public grounds
   
42-25.6   Fee for vacation
Article II. Applying Oil or Chemical Substances Upon Streets
   
42-26   “Chemical substance” defined
   
42-27   License — required
   
42-28   Same — application
   
42-29   Same — fees
   
42-30   Same — term
   
42-31   Same — revocation
   
42-32   Bond
   
42-33   Permits
Article III. Driveways and Culverts
   
42-34   Construction or maintenance of driveway so as to interfere with water
flow in public gutter and the like prohibited
   
42-35   Installation of culvert pipe generally
   
42-36   Permit required to construct; cost of work done by City; ownership of
materials used by City
   
42-37   Installation of pipes in driveways or streets graveled or paved without
curbs
   
42-38   Construction by City upon refusal of owner; assessment of costs
Article IV. Open Spaces Within Street Lines
   
42-39   Application of abutting property owners for permission to beautify
   
42-40   Authorization to beautify; posting of signs to protect
   
42-41   Passing of rights to subsequent purchasers; withdrawal, change and the
like of rights; right to make repairs to streets and utilities
   
42-42   Trespassing prohibited; injuring or destroying grass, flowers and the
like
Article V. Sidewalk Construction and Repair
Division 1. Generally
   
42-43   “Approaches” defined
   
42-44   Compliance
   
42-45   Applicability of other laws and ordinances
   
42-46   Duty to maintain sidewalks
   
42-47   Repairs; penalty
   
42-47.1   Depositing snow, ice or slush on sidewalk or right-of-way
   
42-48   Who may repair or construct
   
42-49   Sunday, night and holiday work
   
42-50   Approaches and sidewalks located within intersection
   
42-51   Notice to construct or repair
   
42-52   Cost of construction by City
   
42-53   Preparation of assessment rolls; levy of assessments
   
42-54   Recovery by City of damages for which it may be liable
Division 2. Construction Standards
   
42-55   Specifications generally
   
42-56   Location
   
42-57   Grade; width
   
42-58   Removal of trees
   
42-59   Alternate specifications for sections of private driveways
Division 3. Permits and Licenses
   
42-60   Construction or repair permit
   
42-61   Return of permit
   
42-62   Bonded sidewalk builder license
   
42-63   Suspension or revocation
   
42-64   Fees to cover cost of grade stakes and engineering services
   
42-65   Disposition of fees
   
42-66   Sidewalk builders’ bond — amount; conditions
   
42-67   Same — recovery on
   
42-68   Effect of failure to repair defective work
Article VI. Snow Removal Vehicles
   
42-69   Licenses — required
   
42-70   Same — exemptions
   
42-71   Same — application; fee; issuance; display of license plate
   
42-72   Same — term
   
42-73   Same — suspension or revocation
   
42-74   Insurance
   
42-75   Limitation on size of equipment; inspection of equipment
   
42-76   Operator to be licensed under State law
Cross-reference:
   Blowing of materials onto streets from dumping grounds, see §
39-37
   Department of Public Works and Utilities, see §§
2-110 –
2-114
   Injury to pavements caused by installation of poles, see §
37-4
   Installation of community television antenna system equipment over streets,
see §
15-18
   Moving buildings and structures, see §§
11-10 –
11-16
   Numbering of buildings and premises, see §§
11-17 –
11-30
   One-way streets, see §
28-27
   Planting of trees and shrubs at intersections, see §§
45-1 –
45-4
   Prohibition against use of bicycles, tricycles and the like, in streets by
children under ten, see §
28-21
   Sidewalks, curbs and driveways for open parking stations, see §
12-167
   Throwing glass, nails and the like upon highway, see §
28-22
   Throwing glass, rubbish and the like into streets, §
30-2
   Use of road and walks at airport, see §
5-12
   Use of roller skates, coasters and the like, in streets, see §
28-21
   Vehicles obstructing streets, see §
28-25
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 42-1 PARADE PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No processions or parades, excepting the forces of the United States of Army
or Navy, the military forces of the State and the forces of the Police and Fire
Departments, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street except in
accordance with a permit issued by the City Council and such other regulations
as are established.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 42-2 TEMPORARY CLOSING OF STREETS, ALLEYS AND THE LIKE — AUTHORITY OF CHIEF
OF POLICE OR TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   The Chief of Police or Traffic Engineer shall have the authority, when he or
she deems it in the interest of public safety or convenience, to temporarily
close any street, alley or portion of the same to vehicular or foot traffic or
to divert such traffic therefrom.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950; Ord. 2095, passed 11-11-1968)
§ 42-2.1 SAME — BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (a)   No street, lane, alley or other public place within the City shall be
temporarily closed without permission of the City Council, upon such terms and
conditions it may prescribe, or as otherwise permitted by law. Persons
requesting temporary street closings shall apply to the City Administrator, on
an application form to be prepared by him or her, setting forth the name and
address of the applicant, an account of the reasons for the requested temporary
street closing and any further information as may be required by the City
Administrator. The applicant shall submit in conjunction with his or her
application a deposit. The deposit amount shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code. The deposit shall be applied toward
the payment of costs incurred by the City with reference to the closing. Upon
receipt of the application the City Administrator shall investigate the same
and submit his or her recommendations to the City Council.
   (b)   Upon approval by resolution of the City Council of a temporary street
vacation, the applicant shall furnish a certificate of insurance, with limits
and terms of liability as specified by the City Council, in a form to be
approved by the Chief Legal Officer, showing proof of public liability
insurance. In conjunction therewith the applicant shall furnish an agreement
protecting and holding the City harmless from any and all claims, actions or
causes of action which may arise as a result of the temporary street closing.
Further, the applicant shall agree to remit, forthwith upon presentation of a
statement, all costs and expenses, extraordinary as well as ordinary, incurred
by the City relative to the temporary street closing. The City Council shall,
in its discretion, have the authority to waive any and all of the requirements
above specified.
   (c)   The costs for which the applicant shall be responsible shall include,
but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The placement and removal of barricades, detour or other types of
signs or traffic-control devices. The applicant shall be responsible for any
damage to the devices as the result of theft and the like;
      (2)   Any replacement, damage or excessive maintenance caused to the
City, to the City sidewalks, pavement, curbing or sewers as the result of the
temporary street closing;
      (3)   Any costs which may arise from the location or relocation of a
special school traffic officer or officers as the result of this closing; and
      (4)   Any other operational or maintenance costs which might be incurred
by the City as a result of the temporary street closing.
(Ord. 2055, passed 6-3-1968; Ord. 3415, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 42-2.2 STREET MARKET — AUTHORIZED; TERMS AND CONDITIONS GENERALLY.
   The City Council hereby authorizes the Center City Association to hold a
street market on the following terms and conditions:
   (a)   At one location within the downtown development district, to be
specified annually by resolution of the City Council;
   (b)   Between such hours and on such days per week as shall be specified
annually by resolution of the City Council; and
   (c)   That the Center City Association will accept the responsibility of
selecting those persons who are to have articles for sale, will furnish public
liability and property damage insurance, including products liability coverage,
in the amounts of $500,000.00 and $1,000,000.00 single and multiple occurrence
with the City of Flint to be an additional named insured.
(Ord. 2450, passed 7-29-1974; Ord. 2717, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 42-2.3 SAME — LICENSES NOT REQUIRED; SALE OF FOOD.
   It is the intention of §§
42-2.2 through
42-2.7 that the sellers of produce shall not be required to have the licenses
provided for in this Code and any other ordinance of the City of Flint and
specifically Code provisions and/or ordinances that have to do with the
manufacture, preparation and handling of food generally as defined in those
Code provisions or ordinances applying to food and food establishments. Any
food sold on the streets in compliance with these provisions shall be sold
under such conditions that the health, safety and welfare of the people
purchasing the food products will be protected by proper regulations issued by
the Health Department.
(Ord. 2450, passed 7-29-1974)
§ 42-2.4 SAME — AUTHORITY OF CENTER CITY ASSOCIATION TO CHARGE FEE.
   The Center City Association may charge a reasonable fee to those who wish to
sell. The amount of the fee shall be reported to and approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 2450, passed 7-29-1974; Ord. 2717, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 42-2.5 SAME — STREETS TO BE KEPT CLEAN AND FREE OF RUBBISH AND DEBRIS.
   The Center City Association will have the obligation to see that the streets
are kept clean and free from rubbish and debris.
(Ord. 2450, passed 7-29-1974; Ord. 2717, passed 7-9-1979)
§ 42-2.6 SAME — BOND.
   A cash bond in the amount of $1,000.00 will be filed with the City Clerk
conditioned upon compliance with the provisions of §§
42-2.2 through
42-2.7. Any expenditure of money required to be made by the City of Flint as a
result of the authorization granted by these sections shall be paid for out of
the bond furnished as provided herein.
(Ord. 2450, passed 5-29-1974)
§ 42-2.7 SAME — TERMINATION OF PERMISSION TO HOLD SALES.
   This license and permission may be terminated at any time by a resolution
adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 2450, passed 5-29-1974)
§ 42-3 PLACING HOSE ACROSS SIDEWALK TO SERVICE MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to stretch or place any tube or hose across any
sidewalk for the purpose of servicing any motor vehicle, or to leave any tube
or hose across any sidewalk when not in use or unattended.
(Ord. 894, passed 1-5-1950)
§ 42-4 PERMISSION TO HOLD PUBLIC MEETING IN STREETS AND THE LIKE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or be engaged in holding or
conducting any public meeting or gathering in any public street, alley,
boulevard or other public places in the City, unless permission be first
obtained from the City Council.
(Ord. 327, passed 4-23-1929)
§ 42-5 PLACING OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS, ALLEYS AND THE LIKE — PERMISSION
REQUIRED.
   (a)   Prohibition. No person shall place or cause to be placed any stone,
brick, timber, lumber, rubbish, material or other obstruction in or upon any
street, lane or alley within the City, nor permit any such incumbrance or
obstruction to remain in any streets, lanes or alleys without the permission of
the City Council.
   (b)   Definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section PERSON shall not include the State
or a political subdivision of the State operating within the scope of its
duties.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section SAFETY VISION means an unobstructed
line of sign enabling a driver to travel upon, enter or exist a roadway in a
safe manner.
   (c)   A person shall not remove, or cause to be removed, snow, ice or slush
onto or across a roadway or the shoulder of the roadway in a manner which
obstructs the safety vision of the driver of a motor vehicle other than off-
road vehicles.
   (d)   A person shall not deposit, or cause to be deposited, snow, ice or
slush onto or across the roadway or the shoulder of the roadway in a manner
which obstructs the safety vision of the driver of a motor vehicle.
   (e)   A person shall not deposit, or cause to be deposited, snow, ice or
slush on any roadway, highway or sidewalk.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909; Ord. 2702, passed 3-26-1979)
§ 42-6 SAME — BOND REQUIRED.
   No person shall place any building material or other obstruction in any
street, lane, alley, sidewalk or gutter until a bond, in the amount specified
by the City Council in the permit granted by the City Council for the placing
of the obstruction, to protect the City against any claims for damages to the
person or property of any person that may be claimed because of the building
material or other obstruction remaining in the street, lane, alley, sidewalk or
gutter, shall have been first filed with the City Clerk and approved by the
City Council.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-7 USE OF STREET BY CARPENTER, STONE MASON AND THE LIKE FOR CUTTING, SAWING
AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any carpenter, stone mason or other mechanic to use
or occupy any street, lane or alley within the City for the purpose of framing
timber, cutting, sawing or dropping stone, unless by permission of the City
Council and then not to exceed one-quarter of the street or highway.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-8 DISPLAYING OR STORING AND THE LIKE GOODS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall use any of the sidewalks, streets or alleys within the City
for the storage, keeping or displaying thereon of any goods, wares,
merchandise, produce, provisions, vegetables, boxes, barrels or showcases
without first obtaining the permission of the City Council to do so. The
storing, keeping or displaying of any article hereinbefore mentioned on any
public sidewalk, street or alley without first having secured the permission of
the City Council as hereinbefore provided is hereby declared to be and
constitute a public nuisance and in addition to the penalties provided for this
Code, proceedings may be instituted in the Circuit Court of the County for the
abatement of the nuisance. No such permission as hereinbefore provided shall be
granted by the City Council to any person, until proof of public liability
insurance, running to the benefit of the City, in amounts not less than
$100,000.00 and $300,000.00 is filed by the person.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909; Ord. 1799, passed 8-24-1964)
§ 42-9 RESERVED. 
§ 42-10 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   No person shall move or assist in moving any building into, along or across
any street, lane or alley within the City without having first obtained
permission of the City Council, and then only by the route and under the
direction of the City Administrator, who shall make such orders and directions
as the safety and convenience of the public may require.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-11 REMOVING EARTH, SAND AND THE LIKE FROM STREETS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, unless authorized by the City Council, dig, remove or carry
away any earth, sand, gravel, stone or sod from any street, lane or alley or
public ground in the City.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-12 LEAVING VEHICLES, RUBBISH AND THE LIKE IN STREETS PROHIBITED; REMOVAL
OF VEHICLES AND THE LIKE BY CITY AT OWNER’S EXPENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle, wood, timber,
rubbish or any other obstruction or encumbrance in any of the streets, lanes or
alleys of the City at any time without special permission of the City Council.
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and police officers to remove all
such obstructions at the expense of the person creating or causing the same.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-13 COVERING OVER VAULTS, WINDOWS AND THE LIKE IN SIDEWALK.
   No person shall cut, keep or have any opening through any sidewalk over any
area, vault or window without having the same safely and securely covered, and
in case the same shall be covered with a grating, the space between the bars
shall not exceed one inch in width.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-14 PLAYING SPORTS IN THE STREET.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball, or hockey, or to
throw or catch for sport, practice or pastime any ball or puck upon any street
or alley within the City, in such a manner so as to impede the flow of traffic.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain in the public
right-of-way a sporting accessory in such a manner that the sporting accessory
is impeding the flow of traffic or that persons using the sporting accessory
are impeding the flow of traffic.
   (c)   It shall also be unlawful for persons utilizing or participating in an
activity involving a sporting accessory to impede the flow of traffic.
      (1)   Definition. For purposes of this section, SPORTING ACCESSORY shall
be defined as portable basketball pole, backboard or hoop, portable hockey net
or other portable sporting equipment which when placed in the street would
impede the flow of traffic.
      (2)   Penalty. Violation of this subsection (c) shall result in a
progressive penalty. A person shall be fined $25.00 for the first offense and
shall be fined double the amount for each subsequent offense.
   (d)   Community and charitable organizations may seek a waiver of
enforcement for certain events. This waiver may be received from the City
Clerk.
(Ord. 120, passed 8-3-1909; Ord. 3437, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 3769, passed 5-
24-2010)
§ 42-15 THROWING STONES, PLAYING GAMES AND THE LIKE IN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw any stone or other missile dangerous to the public,
use any bow and arrow or slingshot or play any game in any street within the
City.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-16 EXCAVATIONS GENERALLY.
   (a)   No person shall break, injure, tear up or remove any pavement,
sidewalk, crosswalk, curbing, street, lane, alley or road surface or make any
excavation in or under any street, lane, alley or sidewalk within the City for
any purpose whatever, without first having obtained permission of the City
Council. It shall be the duty of every person breaking, tearing up or removing
any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, curbing, street, lane, alley or road
surface, or making any excavation in or under any street, lane or sidewalk as
speedily as practicable, and under the direction and supervision of the
Division of Public Works to replace, relay and make good and put in as good
order and repair as before to the satisfaction of the Division of Public Works,
every such pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, curbing, street, lane or alley, as
the case may be. All excavations shall be backfilled with earth which shall be
thoroughly and solidly tamped in layers not to exceed eight inches in
thickness; except, that under pavement, sand and gravel shall be the type of
earth used. If the earth shall settle, the person shall fill the same from time
to time as may be necessary to the satisfaction of the Division of Public
Works. Every such person and the contractor or other person by whom the work is
done, shall erect and maintain a good and sufficient fence, railing or barrier
around every excavation made by him or her in such a manner as to prevent
accidents and shall place and keep on the fence, railing or barrier suitable
and sufficient red lights during the night, and take such further care and
precaution as the Division of Public Works may deem necessary and direct for
the protection and safety of the public.
   (b)   On paved streets the permit shall not be deemed to have authorized any
person to break, remove or rebuild, in whole or in part, any curbing or gutter
for any purpose whatsoever. Whenever any person desires to have the pavement,
curbing or gutter broken, removed or rebuilt in any street, alley or other
public thoroughfare, he or she shall make application to the Division of Public
Works for the work to be done; and if there appears to be no valid objection to
the work, the Division of Public Works shall require a fee to be paid to the
City Treasurer for every lineal foot of curbing or gutter to be broken or
removed, or a deposit to be made sufficient to cover his or her estimate of the
cost of rebuilding or reconstructing the curbing or gutter. The fee and deposit
shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept
on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code. When
the payment has been made, the Director of Public Works shall issue the
necessary orders to have the work done by City employees as soon thereafter as
may be possible and he or she shall keep a record of all such applications in
his or her office.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909; Ord. 1063, passed 3-17-1953; Ord. 2088, passed 10-
21-1968; Ord. 3416, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 42-17 ERECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF BARRIERS AND THE LIKE AROUND OBSTRUCTIONS,
EXCAVATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of every person who shall obstruct or encumber
any street, lane or alley in the City with stone, brick, timber, lumber,
rubbish or other material, or who shall make any excavation or embankment in
any street, lane or alley in the City, to erect and maintain a good and
sufficient fence, railing or barrier around the obstruction, excavation or
embankment to prevent accidents. Any such persons shall place and keep in a
conspicuous place on the fence, railing or barrier, suitable and sufficient
warning lights during the whole of every night that the obstruction, excavation
or embankment shall continue.
   (b)   Every person who shall excavate for erection of any wall, building or
for any other purpose near to any street, lane or alley within the City, shall
put up a good and sufficient protecting rail or barrier along the line of the
street, lane or alley, opposite to the excavation and maintain the same as long
as may be necessary to prevent and maintain danger to persons traveling along
the street or highway.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-18 REMOVAL OF BARRICADES, LAMPS AND THE LIKE; GOING ON PROPERTY FROM WHICH
PUBLIC HAS BEEN EXCLUDED BY USE OF BARRICADES PROHIBITED.
   When any fence, barrier, barricade, danger signal, lantern or other sign is
placed or shall be displayed in or upon any public street, lane, alley or other
public place in the City for the purpose of giving notice or warning of any
danger, obstruction, excavation, work of construction or the recent
construction of any pavement, sidewalk, sewer, excavation, obstruction or
public work of any character, it shall be unlawful for any person, except the
persons charged with the duty of maintaining the fence, barrier, barricade,
danger signal, light or other sign, to remove, displace or in any manner
interfere with any such fence, barrier, barricade, danger signal light or other
sign. During the period that the fence, barrier, barricade, danger signal,
light or other sign shall remain in any public street, lane, alley or other
public place from which it is apparent that the public is excluded or intended
to be excluded by the fence, barrier, barricade, danger signal, light or other
sign shall be deemed closed to public use, and while so closed it shall be
unlawful for any person not employed in connection with the public work to go
or drive thereon. It shall be deemed to be apparent that the public shall be
excluded and intended to be excluded from that portion of a public street,
lane, alley or public place, lying between fences, barriers, barricades, danger
signals, lights or danger signs or adjacent to any such light, lantern, sign or
danger signal.
(Ord. 200, passed 10-19-1951)
§ 42-19 BURNING RUBBISH, LEAVES AND THE LIKE IN STREET PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any rubbish, leaves or other
combustible material upon any of the pavements of the City.
(Ord. 113, passed 12-29-1908)
§ 42-20 HAULING EARTH, DIRT AND THE LIKE — DROPPING, SCATTERING AND THE LIKE
FROM VEHICLE PROHIBITED; LOADING AND CONSTRUCTION OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall for himself, herself or by another scatter, leave, drop or
distribute in any street, alley, lane or other public place within the City,
any earth, ashes, stones, chops, bricks, dirt, filth or rubbish of any
description carted or hauled about in wagons, carts, automobiles or other
vehicles. No person shall load or cause to be loaded any wagons, carts,
automobiles or other vehicles used for carting or hauling the articles or
substances above mentioned above the sides of the body thereof. The boxes or
body of any wagon, cart, automobile or other vehicle so used, shall be
constructed with tight, close and sound boards or other equally good material
and in such manner as to prevent the scattering or dropping of the contents
thereof on the street, alley or other public places. In the case of carting or
hauling dry ashes, mortar, dirt or other substances liable to be blown off and
about by the wind, the same shall be safely covered and secured by canvas or
other suitable material.
(Ord. 105, passed 10-25-1911)
§ 42-21 SAME — BOND REQUIRED OF LICENSED CONTRACTOR.
   Any building contractor, licensed pursuant to
Chapter 12, shall be required to post a bond in accordance with the provisions
in
Chapter 12. The bond shall be conditioned in part upon full and faithful
compliance with the terms of §
42-20. In the event any licensed contractor, his or her agents or employees
shall scatter, leave, drop or distribute in any right-of-way of any street,
alley, lane or other public place within the City any earth, ashes, stones,
chips, bricks, dirt, filth, building materials or rubbish of any description
without written permission of the Director of Public Works and Utilities and
shall fail to properly remove the substances within five days after
notification in writing by the Director of Public Works and Utilities, or his
or her authorized agents, the Director of Public Works may authorize agents or
employees of the City to fully alleviate the conditions and charge the cost
thereof against the bond. In the event any licensed contractor should fail to
post the bond in the first instance or fail to maintain the bond in full force
and effect, the Director of Public Works shall be authorized to withhold the
issuance of any permit for work to be performed within the City until full
compliance has been effectuated. The provision hereof shall not be construed to
be lieu of any other penalty provided by this Code.
(Ord. 1927, passed 8-15-1966; Ord. 2662, passed 9-25-1978)
§ 42-22 LIMITATION ON SIZE AND LOCATION OF SIGNS OVER SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall put up, erect, keep, use or maintain any sign or
advertisement device extending on or over the sidewalk more than three feet
from the side of the walk or building to which the same is adjoined or
attached, and not approaching nearer to the sidewalk than eight feet, nor shall
any person hang upon or fasten to any awning extending over the sidewalk, any
goods, ware or merchandise, so that the same will come nearer than eight feet
to the sidewalk.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-23 LIMITATION ON SIZE OF AWNINGS OVER SIDEWALK.
   No person shall put up, erect, keep, maintain or use any awning on or over
any sidewalk in the City extending a greater distance than eight feet to the
sidewalk over which it projects.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-24 POSTS OR FIXTURES ON SIDEWALKS FOR SIGNS, AWNINGS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall put up, erect, keep, use or maintain on or in any sidewalk
in the City, any post or fixture for the support of any sign, awning or
advertisement, or for any other purpose without having first obtained
permission of the City Council.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-3-1909)
§ 42-25 NOTICE OF VACATION, DISCONTINUANCE OF STREETS, ALLEYS OR OTHER PUBLIC
GROUND; PUBLIC HEARING.
   (a)   The Planning Commission shall cause written notices to be sent by
regular mail to all persons listed on the last City assessment roll as owning
frontage within a radius of 300 feet of any part of a street, alley or other
public ground proposed to be vacated, discontinued or abolished, at least 15
days prior to the public hearing to be held before the Planning Commission. The
notice shall be in a form to be prescribed by the Chief Legal Officer and shall
advise the persons of the proposed vacation, discontinuance or abolishment and
advise them of their right to appear at the public hearing scheduled therefor
and state their objections.
   (b)   After completion of the hearing before the Planning Commission, the
Planning Commission shall prep its final report and recommendation and submit
it to the City Council within 15 days following the meeting of the Planning
Commission at which the report is made final. The receipt of the final report
shall be noticed in the minutes of the City Council.
(Ord. 2048, passed 4-22-1968; Ord. 2607, passed 6-27-1977; Ord. 3505, passed
11-25-2002)
§ 42-25.1 ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION DECLARING NECESSITY OR DESIRABILITY OF
VACATING STREETS, ALLEYS OR OTHER PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   When it shall appear to the City Council that it may be necessary or
desirable for the public health, welfare, comfort or safety to vacate and
discontinue any street, alley or other public ground, or any part thereof, and
the Planning Commission has submitted to the City Council its recommendation
relative thereto following a public hearing conducted in accordance with §
42-25 hereof, it shall so state, by resolution adopted by an affirmative vote
of a majority of members elect of the City Council.
(Ord. 2607, passed 6-27-1977)
§ 42-25.2 RESOLUTION TO SPECIFY WHEN COUNCIL SHALL HEAR OBJECTIONS.
   The resolution declaring that it may be necessary or desirable to vacate and
discontinue any street, alley or other public ground, shall specify a time not
less than four weeks hereafter when the City Council shall meet and hear
objections thereto.
(Ord. 2607, passed 6-27-1977)
§ 42-25.3 NOTICE OF HEARING HELD PURSUANT TO § 42-25.2.
   The City Clerk shall give notice of the time of the hearing by publishing a
copy of the resolution once, not less than two weeks before the time appointed
for the meeting, in a newspaper published and circulated in the City. All
public utilities operating in the City shall be given notice of the hearing by
certified mail.
(Ord. 2607, passed 6-27-1977)
§ 42-25.4 MAJORITY VOTE OF COUNCIL TO VACATE, DISCONTINUE STREETS, ALLEYS OR
OTHER PUBLIC GROUNDS; RESERVATION OF EASEMENT.
   Following the public hearing provided for herein, the City Council may, upon
an affirmative vote of a majority of the members elect of the City Council,
vacate and discontinue any street, alley or other public ground, or any part
thereof, and may reserve an easement or easements therein for public utility
purposes and other public purposes.
(Ord. 2607, passed 6-27-1977)
§ 42-25.5 RECORDING OF RESOLUTION VACATING AND DISCONTINUING STREETS, ALLEYS OR
OTHER PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   The City Clerk shall within 30 days of the action by the City Council
vacating and discontinuing any street, alley or other public ground, record a
certified copy of the resolution with the Register of Deeds for Genesee County
and forward a certified copy of the resolution to the State Treasurer. The
vacation or discontinuance of the street, alley or other public place shall
take effect upon the recording with the Register of Deeds and shall be subject
to the easements or reservations as therein stated.
(Ord. 2607, passed 6-27-1977)
§ 42-25.6 FEE FOR VACATION.
   An applicant for a vacation of a street, alley or other public ground shall
pay a fee to the office of the Planning Commission at the time the vacation is
requested to cover the cost of processing staff review and mailings. The fee
shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept
on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 3042, passed 8-24-1987; Ord. 3078, passed 10-10-1988; Ord. 3417, passed
2-8-1999)
ARTICLE II. APPLYING OIL OR CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES UPON STREETS
§ 42-26 “CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES. Calcium chloride, grease, petroleum, oil or any
substance applied to a street for purposes of laying dust, cleaning, watering,
dampening, grading or improving the street.
(Ord. 419, passed 5-7-1941)
§ 42-27 LICENSE — REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of applying oil or chemical
substances upon streets within the City without being licensed as provided in
this article.
(Ord. 419, passed 5-7-1941)
§ 42-28 SAME — APPLICATION.
   Any person seeking to become a licensee under this article shall make
application for the license upon forms to be furnished by the City. The
application shall be received by the City Clerk and shall contain the following
information:
   (a)   Name, age and address;
   (b)   Form of business organization; and
   (c)   Names and addresses of officers.
(Ord. 419, passed 5-7-1941)
§ 42-29 SAME — FEES.
   Persons licensed under this article shall pay the sum specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code annually to the City Clerk, prior to May 1 of each
year.
(Ord. 419, passed 5-7-1941; Ord. 1076, passed 3-24-1953)
§ 42-30 SAME — TERM.
   Licenses issued under this article shall be operative for a period of May 1
to April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 419, passed 5-7-1941)
§ 42-31 SAME — REVOCATION.
   The City Council may revoke a license upon the violation of any of the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 419, passed 5-7-1941)
§ 42-32 BOND.
   No license shall be issued under this article to any person unless he or she
shall first deposit with the City Clerk a bond in the penal sum of $2,000.00
conditioned upon compliance with the provisions of this article and further
conditioned upon protecting the City against any injury or damage to the
streets of the City or any damage, injury or liability incurring to the City as
a result of the application of the licensee.
(Ord. 419, passed 5-7-1941)
§ 42-33 PERMITS.
   No application shall be made of oil or chemical substance upon any street
within the City by a licensee unless he or she shall first obtain from the
Department of Public Works and Utilities a written permit authorizing him or
her to make the application.
(Ord. 419, passed 5-7-1941)
ARTICLE III. DRIVEWAYS AND CULVERTS
§ 42-34 CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE OF DRIVEWAY SO AS TO INTERFERE WITH WATER
FLOW IN PUBLIC GUTTER AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a driveway,
approach or other obstruction leading from any street to a lot or parcel of
land abutting thereon which may in any way obstruct or interfere with the free
and continuous flow or passage of water in, through or along any public gutter,
water course, drain in the street, without first placing in the bottom of the
gutter, water course or drain, a metal culvert pipe as herein provided and
maintaining the same safe and unobstructed.
(Ord. 296, passed 5-9-1939)
§ 42-35 INSTALLATION OF CULVERT PIPE GENERALLY.
   Any culvert pipe installed in any public street shall be approved by the
Division of Public Works and shall be of cast iron, steel or iron or steel
alloy not less than eight inches in internal diameter, or larger if required by
the Division of Public Works, shall have a continuous length of not less than
14 feet nor more than 42 feet, shall be installed in a manner approved by the
Division of Public Works in a location, at a grade and at such elevation that
it will not obstruct or interfere with the free and continuous flow or passage
of water in the direction designated by the established grade of the gutter,
water course or drain and shall be covered with material of the same character
as the traveled portion of the roadway adjacent or other approved material
suitable for the use intended provided, that the Director of Public Works and
Utilities may grant special permission to install a metal culvert pipe less
than 14 feet or more than 42 feet in length, if, in his or her judgment,
conditions justify installation of the lesser or greater length.
(Ord. 296, passed 5-9-1939)
§ 42-36 PERMIT REQUIRED TO CONSTRUCT; COST OF WORK DONE BY CITY; OWNERSHIP OF
MATERIALS USED BY CITY.
   Whenever any person shall desire to construct a driveway or obstruction in a
gutter the character mentioned in §
42-34, he or she shall make application to the Division of Public Works for a
permit for the installation by the applicant, the Division of Public Works will
issue a permit for the installation in the manner provided in §
42-35 and shall make a record of the permit. Should the applicant desire to
have the work done by the City, he or she will be required to make application
to the Division of Public Works and to pay to the City Treasurer, a minimum sum
of $25.00 for a metal culvert pipe of an adequate size for the use intended, as
determined by the Director of Public Works and Utilities, but not less than
eight inches in internal diameter and with a standard length not greater than
14 feet, plus the sum of $1.50 per foot for any additional length required in
excess of 14 feet. Upon payment to the City Treasurer of such sum, the City
shall as soon thereafter as convenient, install the pipe and cover same with
some material suitable for the use intended. The material used in construction
of all driveways or culverts built by the City shall remain the property of the
City. If at any time the character of the street is changed so that a driveway
or culvert is no longer required, then all material used in the driveway or
culvert constructed by the City shall be salvaged by it, and all material shall
be removed from the site by the City.
(Ord. 296, passed 5-9-1939; Ord. 1103, passed 4-13-1953)
§ 42-37 INSTALLATION OF PIPES IN DRIVEWAYS OR STREETS GRAVELED OR PAVED WITHOUT
CURBS.
   Whenever any street, lane or alley in the City has been graveled or paved
without curbs, it shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works and
Utilities to serve or cause to be served a written notice upon the owner or
agent of any lot or parcel of land abutting the street which has a driveway
approach or other obstruction leading from the lot or parcel of land to the
traveled portion of the street, requiring him or her to install pipes in all
the driveways, approaches or obstructions in accordance with this article,
within ten days after the completion of the work of graveling or paving any
such street. It shall further be the duty of the Director of Public Works and
Utilities to serve or cause to be served, the notice as above mentioned upon
the owner or agent of any lot or parcel of land abutting any street in the City
which has been graveled or paved, who has not complied with the conditions
specified in this article. In case the Director of Public Works and Utilities
or other authorized agent or employee shall be unable to find within the City,
the owner or agent of any such lot or parcel of land abutting the street, then
the notice may be served by posting in some conspicuous place on the lot and
premises.
(Ord. 296, passed 5-9-1939)
§ 42-38 CONSTRUCTION BY CITY UPON REFUSAL OF OWNER; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   In case the owner or agent of any lot or parcel of land, when ordered by the
Director of Public Works and Utilities shall refuse or neglect to install pipes
under the driveways, approaches or obstructions within ten days from the date
of service of the notice provided for in §
42-37, the City Council may cause the driveway, approach or obstructions to be
constructed and installed and assess the cost thereof in a special assessment
on the lot or parcel of land benefitted. The assessment shall be made and
collected in the same manner as provided for in the Charter for the making and
collecting of special assessments and the tax shall be and remain a lien upon
the lot or parcel of land until the same is paid, the same as all other
assessments.
(Ord. 296, passed 5-9-1939)
ARTICLE IV. OPEN SPACES WITHIN STREET LINES
§ 42-39 APPLICATION OF ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS FOR PERMISSION TO BEAUTIFY.
   (a)   Any owner or occupant of property abutting upon any street in the City
may make application to the Recreation and Park Board for permission to
beautify the terrace or other open space within the street lines opposite the
property, setting forth in the application the proposed plan of improvement.
   (b)   The Recreation and Park Board shall examine the application and
approve, reject or modify the same.
(Ord. 47, passed 8-26-1935)
§ 42-40 AUTHORIZATION TO BEAUTIFY; POSTING OF SIGNS TO PROTECT.
   Upon the approval of the plan or modified plan for beautification of
terraces or other open spaces within the street lines, the applicant is
authorized to beautify the terrace or other open space and is also authorized
to post a sign upon the terrace or other open space, upon which shall be
legibly printed in letters not less than one-half inch high, the following:
“Protected by Ordinance of the City of Flint.”
(Ord. 47, passed 8-26-1935)
§ 42-41 PASSING OF RIGHTS TO SUBSEQUENT PURCHASERS; WITHDRAWAL, CHANGE AND THE
LIKE OF RIGHTS; RIGHT TO MAKE REPAIRS TO STREETS AND UTILITIES.
   The rights granted under this article shall pass to subsequent purchasers or
occupants of the abutting premises without formal assignment. Such rights are
subject to modification, change or can be withdrawn by the Recreation and Park
Board. Nothing in this article shall be taken to prevent or obstruct the City
or the public utilities in the City in making necessary or needful repairs or
improvements to the street or to the installation or repair of public utilities
therein.
(Ord. 47, passed 8-26-1935)
§ 42-42 TRESPASSING PROHIBITED; INJURING OR DESTROYING GRASS, FLOWERS AND THE
LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to trespass upon the terrace or upon
open space beautified under this article or to injure or destroy the grass,
flowers, shrubs or trees planted or growing therein.
(Ord. 47, passed 8-26-1935)
ARTICLE V. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 42-43 “APPROACHES” DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROACHES. Either driveways or sidewalks built in the streets between the
gutter line and the sidewalk line nearest the gutter line.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-44 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall construct, reconstruct or repair or cause or permit to be
constructed, reconstructed or repaired in front of or adjacent to any lot or
parcel of land owned or occupied by him or her, any sidewalk or approach of
different specifications or of different width or to a different line or grade
than specified in this article.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-45 APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   Any person performing any work in the construction, reconstruction or repair
of sidewalks in a public street will be required to observe all provisions of
this Code or other ordinances in relation to obstructing streets, storing
materials and supplies, keeping open passage ways and protecting and the same
where exposed, maintaining sufficient guards, light and barriers to keep the
street where the work is being constructed, reconstructed or repaired in a
condition reasonably safe and fit for public travel, providing for the
convenience of the public and of the residents along the street, as far as
practicable, cleaning up rubbish and other things accumulated during the
performance of the work and in general to obey all laws and ordinances, rules
and regulations controlling or limiting those engaged on work in public
streets.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-46 DUTY TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, agent or occupant of any lot or parcel
of land situated within the City to keep and maintain good and sufficient
sidewalks along all streets and avenues in front of or adjacent thereto.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-47 REPAIRS; PENALTY.
   (a)   Unsafe sidewalk or approach. Whenever any sidewalk or approach or
portion of the same by reason of the surface defects, want of repair or any
other reason, becomes dangerous or unsafe to persons passing along or upon the
same or in such condition as to constitute a hazard to the safety of the
public, the Director of Transportation shall be authorized to tear up and
remove the dangerous and unsafe portions or cause the same to be done and to
replace the portion with earth, gravel or cinders, or to make permanent repairs
to the same as to render it safe for persons to pass along and upon the
sidewalk or approach. The cost and expense of the work shall be charged against
the owner, or agent or occupant of the subject property. The amount thereof may
be recovered by the City in a suit brought for that purpose in a court of
competent jurisdiction, or may be assessed against the subject property or
premises in the manner provided in §
42-52.
   (b)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to permit
snow, ice or slush to remain on any sidewalk in front of or adjacent to any
building or lot longer than 24 hours after the same has fallen or formed.
   (c)   Penalty. Violation of subsection (b) hereof shall be a municipal civil
infraction pursuant to §§
1-10 through
1-21.
(Ord. 296, passed 5-9-1939; Ord. 2702, passed 3-26-1979; Ord. 3323, passed 2-
12-1996; Ord. 3571, passed 6-9-2004)
§ 42-47.1 DEPOSITING SNOW, ICE OR SLUSH ON SIDEWALK OR RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in snow removal activity to
deposit snow, ice or slush on any City sidewalk or in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 3193, passed 1-27-1992)
§ 42-48 WHO MAY REPAIR OR CONSTRUCT.
   No sidewalk or approach shall be constructed, rebuilt or repaired in the
City except by a licensed and bonded sidewalk builder, except as hereinafter
provided. All sidewalks shall be constructed, rebuilt or repaired in one of the
following manners:
   (a)   By the Department of Public Works and Utilities by direct employment
of labor and purchase of materials. Sidewalks may be constructed, rebuilt or
repaired through the Department of Public Works and Utilities upon application
to the Director of Public Works and Utilities and making a deposit with the
City Treasurer in an amount of 25% in excess of the estimated cost of the work
and materials as determined by the Director of Public Works and Utilities. Any
balance remaining in the deposit after the expense of the work and materials
has been deducted shall be refunded to the applicant;
   (b)   By a licensed and bonded sidewalk builder without City inspection as
provided herein. Sidewalks may be constructed, rebuilt or repaired by a
licensed and bonded sidewalk builder without City inspection upon application
and obtaining a permit and payment of fees as specified under §
42-60; or
   (c)   By the owner of a lot or parcel of land in front of or adjacent to
which a sidewalk is to be constructed or repaired over an area not exceeding 75
square feet. An isolated sidewalk repair of 75 square feet or less in area may
be made by the owner of the abutting premises upon application and obtaining a
permit and payment of the fee specified in §
42-60; provided, that the owner shall satisfy the Director of Public Works and
Utilities that he or she is skillful and competent to reconstruct and repair
the sidewalk without City inspection in the manner specified in Division 2 of
this article, or will employ skillful, competent and experienced help to
reconstruct or repair the sidewalk under his or her direction in such manner.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1376, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 42-49 SUNDAY, NIGHT AND HOLIDAY WORK.
   No sidewalk construction, reconstruction or repair requiring the presence of
an inspector will be permitted on Sundays, holidays or between the hours of 5:
00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. unless application for the inspection is made at least 48
hours in advance of the time when the inspection is required.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1733, passed 7-29-1963)
§ 42-50 APPROACHES AND SIDEWALKS LOCATED WITHIN INTERSECTION.
   All approaches and sidewalks located within the intersection of public
streets or alleys shall be constructed, maintained and kept in repair by the
Director of Public Works and Utilities and shall be constructed in accordance
with the specifications established by this article. The expense of building
and repairing approaches and sidewalks within the intersection of public
streets and alleys shall be paid out of the general fund of the City.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-51 NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   Whenever the construction, reconstruction or repair of sidewalk or approach
is ordered in the manner provided by the Charter, this Code or other ordinances
of the City, it shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works and Utilities
to cause to be served upon the owner, agent or occupant of any lot or parcel of
land in front of or abutting a sidewalk or approach which is ordered to be
constructed, reconstructed or repaired, notice to construct, reconstruct or
repair the same within 15 days from the date of service of the notice. The
notice shall be served by regular mail by mailing to the owner, agent or
occupant of the lot or parcel of land a true copy of the notice inscribed
“copy.” The notice shall be in the following form or one substantially similar
thereto:
   State of Michigan         )
                     ) ss
   City of Flint, Genesee County)
You are hereby notified to construct, reconstruct or repair a sidewalk or
approach along the                 side of                  Street in front of
(or adjacent to) such part or parts of the following described lot or parcel of
land situated in the City of Flint are owned by you, to wit:
                                                              pursuant to
resolution adopted by the Flint City Council on the      day of              ,
20   , and in accordance with specifications prescribed therefor now on file in
the office of the Director of Public Works and Utilities within fifteen days
from the date of the service upon you of this notice.
                                                   
   Witness
                                                   
Director of Public Works and Utilities this        day of                ,
20    .
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1336, passed 6-25-1956)
§ 42-52 COST OF CONSTRUCTION BY CITY.
   (a)   If the owner, agent or occupant shall neglect to construct,
reconstruct or repair the sidewalk or approach within the time specified in the
notice required to be given, it shall be the duty of the City Administrator to
construct, reconstruct or repair the same, or cause it to be done. In such case
the cost and expense of construction, reconstructing or repairing the sidewalk
or approach, in which cost shall be included all the items of cost of the
construction, shall, when ordered by the City Council, be assessed by the Board
of Special Assessors on each description of land, which shall be and remain a
lien thereon until collected and paid as provided in this article.
   (b)   Upon completion of the construction, reconstruction or repairing of
the sidewalk or approach, the City Administrator shall make a report to the
City Council, setting forth therein the names of the owner, agent or occupant
with a description of the premises, the amount of walk constructed,
reconstructed or repaired, together with an itemized statement verified by him
or her showing the cost and the expense of all labor and material used.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-53 PREPARATION OF ASSESSMENT ROLLS; LEVY OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (a)   Upon receiving the report mentioned in §
42-52, the City Council shall and it is hereby authorized to direct the Board
of Special Assessors to make and prepare special assessment rolls, which shall
contain the description of each lot or parcel of land in front of or adjacent
to which the City has constructed, reconstructed or repaired any sidewalk or
approach provided and the names of the owners of the lots or parcels of land,
together with the total cost of constructing, reconstructing or repairing the
same as in this article provided to be assessed. The Board of Special Assessors
shall levy, as a “special assessment” on each description of land appearing on
the rolls, its proportion of the cost.
   (b)   Upon receiving such direction, the Board of Special Assessors shall
make an assessment roll as provided in Section 98 of the Charter and thereupon
the same proceedings shall be had and with like effect as provided in the
Charter for special assessments in other cases.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-54 RECOVERY BY CITY OF DAMAGES FOR WHICH IT MAY BE LIABLE.
   Any owner, agent or occupant who shall refuse or neglect to comply with the
provisions of any notice to build, rebuild or repair any sidewalk or approach
in accordance with the provisions of this article, in addition to the penalties
otherwise provided in this Code, shall be liable and compelled to pay to the
City all damages to person or property for which the City may be liable for by
reason of any injuries resulting therefrom, which sum may be recovered by the
City in proceedings brought for that purpose in any court of proper
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
DIVISION 2. CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 42-55 SPECIFICATIONS GENERALLY.
   Sidewalk construction, reconstruction, rebuilt or repaired in City streets
shall be of cement concrete composed of properly proportioned, clean, fine and
coarse aggregate, portland cement and water, each having such physical
properties that when mixed to a homogenous mass and deposited to a sufficient
depth upon the proper subgrade, worked and finished to a smooth and true
surface and properly protected against the effects of the elements, the
hardened resulting concrete sidewalk will sustain, without failure, a
compressive load of 1,500 pounds per square inch at the end of seven days or
2,500 pounds per square inch at the end of 28 days when tested in the usual
manner. Such sidewalks shall, in addition, meet the following minimum
requirements.
   (a)   No sidewalks shall be less than four inches in thickness and no
sidewalk which crosses existing or proposed driveways or roadways, shall have a
strength less than one and one-half times that required for ordinary walks or
less than one and one-half times that required for ordinary walks or less than
six inches in thickness.
   (b)   All aggregates shall consist of uniformly graded, clean, hard
particles of natural sand or rock or fragments of stone or gravel free from
soft stone, coated or nondurable substances. All water shall be free from
injurious amounts of deleterious substances. Cement shall be of good durable
and usable quality.
   (c)   The quantity of cement used shall not be less than one and six-tenths
barrels per cubic yard of concrete in the sidewalk.
   (d)   All sidewalks shall be constructed in a thorough and workmanlike
manner. The grade of the finished walk shall have a fall toward the street
gutter of one-fourth inch per foot of width of sidewalk. Joints and surface
edges shall be formed to a radius of about one-half inch with proper tools and
the surface shall be finished in such a manner that when completed, it shall
have a neat appearance and wearing surface equal in roughness to troweling
smooth and brushing lightly with a stiff brush or broom.
   (e)   All sidewalks shall be laid on a firm, well- compacted subgrade of
cinders or earth free from vegetable matter or a refuse. Any cut or fill shall
be not less than one foot wider on each side than the width of the walk to be
built upon it and shall have a side slope not less than one and one-half foot
horizontal to one foot vertical.
   (f)   All sidewalks constructed or repaired when the temperature of the air
is below 40°F. and falling during the period of placing the concrete or during
the first five days of curing period or which is laid in extremely warm
weather, shall be protected in such a manner as will assure quality and
strength of concrete equal to that produced in ordinary temperature.
   (g)   Construction joints spaced not more than five feet apart, shall be cut
entirely through the walk for its full width and shall completely separate
adjacent slabs. Expansion joint material thoroughly impregnated with a
bituminous or asphaltic compound shall be placed between walks and curbs at all
places where they meet and in intermediate joints at distances not to exceed 50
feet and shall extend from the finished sidewalk surface for the full depth of
the walk.
   (h)   Every sidewalk built or repaired shall have stamped thereon in neat
letters not less than one and one-half inches in height and one-fourth inch in
depth the year in which the mark shall be placed once in every 100 linear feet
of sidewalk.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1733, passed 7-29-1963)
§ 42-56 LOCATION.
   All sidewalks shall be located one foot from the street line unless
permission is granted by the Director of Public Works and Utilities to locate
sidewalks at any other location.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1733, passed 7-29-1963)
§ 42-57 GRADE; WIDTH.
   All sidewalks shall be upon such grade as the Director of Public Works and
Utilities may direct. Where all the lots abutting the sidewalk in the block
involved are zoned “A” residential, the same shall be not less than four feet
in width, except in those areas where by reason of density of pedestrian
traffic, the Director of Public Works and Utilities may require the
installation of a five-foot sidewalk; provided, that whenever an existing
sidewalk of more than four feet in width is reconstructed, repaired or replaced
along a length of less than the full frontage of the abutting lot or parcel of
land, the reconstruction, repair or replacement may be of the same width as the
existing sidewalk.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1733, passed 7-29-1963)
§ 42-58 REMOVAL OF TREES.
   All trees which are in the line of the sidewalk work and which require
moving will removed by the Recreation and Park Board, upon written application
approved by the Director of Public Works and Utilities, at the expense of the
person requesting the same to be removed.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1733, passed 7-29-1963)
§ 42-59 ALTERNATE SPECIFICATIONS FOR SECTIONS OF PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS.
   Private driveways between the back of curb and front of public sidewalk may
be constructed as follows as an alternate to concrete construction.
   (a)   The subbase shall be graded and compacted.
   (b)   Aggregate base coarse shall be a minimum of six inches of compacted
crushed limestone on gravel meeting State Highway Department gradation 22-A.
   (c)   Surface coarse shall consist of a minimum of two inches of bituminous
concrete conforming to State Highway Department specifications 4-12. The
aggregate shall be 31-A gradation. The State Highway Department specifications
shall be the last specifications as put out by the State Highway Department.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1865, passed 9-9-1965)
DIVISION 3. PERMITS AND LICENSES
§ 42-60 CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR PERMIT.
   No sidewalk shall be built, rebuilt, constructed or repaired in the City
without a permit therefor being first obtained from the Director of Public
Works and Utilities. All sidewalks shall be built in accordance with the
specifications in this article. The Director of Public Works and Utilities
shall, upon applications therefor, be authorized to issue such permits and to
charge a fee therefor, which fee shall cover cost of issuing such permit and
the cost of inspection, checking and supervision and shall be in accordance
with the schedule of fees in
Chapter 26 of this Code.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1376, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 42-61 RETURN OF PERMIT.
   All permits issued shall be returned by the applicant to the Director of
Public Works and Utilities within 30 days from the date thereof with a
statement thereon by the builder of the area and the number of lineal feet of
sidewalk or approach constructed, rebuilt or repaired under the same, the
location thereof with respect to lot lines, the date the work was completed and
the name or initials of the builder and the year on the stamp or mark by which
the work may be identified.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1376, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 42-62 BONDED SIDEWALK BUILDER LICENSE.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of building, rebuilding or
repairing sidewalks and approaches as a bonded and licensed sidewalk builder
without City inspection shall make written application for a license therefor
to the City Clerk, which application shall contain the full name, age and place
of residence of the person if an individual; the names, ages and places of
residence of each person if a partnership; and the name, address, State of
incorporation and title and signature of the official authorized to sign the
application if a corporation, together with such additional information as the
City Clerk may require. The application shall also express the applicant’s
willingness to be governed in all respects by all rules, regulations and
specifications which are now or may be adopted by the Director of Public Works
and Utilities for the building, rebuilding or repair of sidewalks and
approaches and shall be signed by two or more reputable citizens vouching for
the applicant’s qualifications for each license. If the applications be
approved by the Director of Public Works and Utilities, upon payment of a
license fee as specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code to the City Clerk, the applicant shall be entitled to
receive a sidewalk builder’s license. No such license shall be granted for more
than one year. Every license granted under the provisions of this article shall
automatically terminate on April 30 of each year. Upon obtaining the license
and filing a sidewalk builder’s bond with the City Clerk, as specified herein,
the applicant shall upon approval of the bond by the Chief Legal Officer, be
entitled to receive a bonded sidewalk builder’s certificate authorizing the
applicant to construct, reconstruct or repair sidewalks and approaches without
City inspection, upon obtaining a permit for the work as provided in § 42-60.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1376, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 42-63 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The City Council may of its own initiative, for incompetency or for any
unlawful act, violation of the provisions of this article, of any other
provision of this Code or any other ordinance relating to the building,
rebuilding or repair of sidewalks or for any failure, refusal or neglect to
strictly comply with the rules, regulations and specifications for the
building, rebuilding or repair of sidewalks contained in this article or
prescribed by the Director of Public Works and Utilities, suspend or revoke any
license or permit issued under this article. The findings of the City Council
in all such matters shall be final and conclusive; provided, that the City
Administrator may for any of the cases enumerated in this section suspend the
license or permit until the next regular meeting of the City Council, and cause
the license or permit to be delivered to him or her. At the next regular
meeting of the City Council the sidewalk builder or licensee may appear before
the City Council and be heard and the City Council, after the hearing, may
revoke or suspend the licensee permanently or for a lesser period as it may
deem advisable.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-64 FEES TO COVER COST OF GRADE STAKES AND ENGINEERING SERVICES.
   In the event grade stakes are required because adjacent walks are not built
to proper grades or in the event the owner has not employed engineering
services competent to set grade stakes to proper grades of if, in the judgment
of the Director of Public Works and Utilities, grade stakes or other
engineering services are required for the proper completion of the work,
certain fees shall be paid to the City Treasurer to cover the cost to the City
of setting the grade stakes and providing other necessary engineering services
and materials. The fees shall be established from time to time by resolution of
the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A
of the City Code.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1376, passed 4-8-1957; Ord. 3418, passed 2-8-
1999)
§ 42-65 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money collected from granting licenses and all fees obtained for issuing
permits under this article shall be credited to the general fund.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1376, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 42-66 SIDEWALK BUILDERS’ BOND — AMOUNT; CONDITIONS.
   All sidewalk builder’s bonds provided for by the terms of this article shall
be in the penal sum of $2,000.00 or more, as the City Council may determine,
with a surety company duly authorized to do business in the State as surety,
such surety to be approved by the City Council. The bond shall be executed to
the City and conditioned upon the faithful observance of the provisions of this
Code and other ordinances in effect at the date thereof concerning the
building, rebuilding or repair of sidewalks; and further conditioned that the
principal executing the same shall construct all sidewalks of good material and
workmanship and in strict accordance with all specifications and regulations
prescribed by the Director of Public Works and Utilities for the construction,
repair or maintenance of sidewalks; and further conditioned for the payment to
the City and to all persons entitled thereto, of the cost and expense of
rebuilding or repairing the sidewalks at any time within a period of three
years from January 1, next following the completion of the work, any defect due
to the construction of such which, in the judgment of the Director of Public
Works and Utilities, may require the same to be rebuilt or repaired; also to
indemnify and save harmless the City on account of any claim for damages or
injuries to persons or property due to the failure to maintain sufficient guard
lights or barriers to maintain the street where the work is being constructed,
reconstructed or repaired in a condition reasonably safe and fit for public
travel and in compliance with the provisions of this Code and other ordinances
of the City.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1376, passed 4-8-1957)
§ 42-67 SAME — RECOVERY ON.
   Any sidewalk builder’s bond may be prosecuted and recovery had thereon by
the City or by any person who shall have suffered any injury or damage by
reason of inferior quality of materials or improper construction or poor
workmanship in any sidewalk, or for any injury or damage suffered on account of
the sidewalk becoming out of repair within the period covered by the bond, or
on account of any failure to maintain the street where the work was constructed
in a condition reasonably safe and fit for public travel. All suits may be
brought in the name of the City by any person, for his or her use and benefit;
provided, that the City shall not be liable for any costs occasioned by any
such suit.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942)
§ 42-68 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO REPAIR DEFECTIVE WORK.
   Failure on the part of the builder to replace defective work within a
reasonable time after written notice from the Director of Public Works and
Utilities to do so, shall be deemed sufficient cause of cancellation of his or
her right to construct additional walks and to cause proper repairs to be made
at the expense of the sureties of the builder.
(Ord. 505, passed 10-5-1942; Ord. 1376, passed 4-8-1957)
ARTICLE VI. SNOW REMOVAL VEHICLES
§ 42-69 LICENSES — REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or engage in the business of operating within the
City, any vehicle for the removal of snow from the streets, sidewalks and other
public places in the City without a license for that purpose from the City
issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 839, passed 1-10-1949)
§ 42-70 SAME — EXEMPTIONS.
   Any person operating a vehicle belonging to the person for the removal of
snow upon property belonging to or in possession of the person, or street or
sidewalk abutting thereon, shall not be required to obtain a license as
provided in this article. Any person owning and operating a vehicle for snow
removal which has a motor of seven horsepower or less shall not be required to
secure a license as provided by this article.
(Ord. 839, passed 1-10-1949; Ord. 1623, passed 1-30-1961)
§ 42-71 SAME — APPLICATION; FEE; ISSUANCE; DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATE.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of operating snow removal
vehicles for the purposes set forth in §
42-69 shall, before so operating the vehicles, so engaging in the business,
apply to the City Clerk for a license, and shall pay to the City Clerk at the
time of making application, the sum specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code for each such vehicle, and the City Clerk shall
thereupon issue a license under this hand and seal of the City to the
applicant, which license shall be numbered. Before engaging in the business,
the vehicle for which the license shall be obtained shall have prominently
displayed in the back window a license sticker issued by the City Clerk for the
vehicle. A separate license shall be necessary for each vehicle.
(Ord. 839, passed 1-10-1949; Ord. 2984, passed 3-24-1986)
§ 42-72 SAME — TERM.
   All licenses issued by the City Clerk under this article, unless sooner
revoked, shall expire on April 30 each year.
(Ord. 839, passed 1-10-1949)
§ 42-73 SAME — SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under and by virtue of the authority of this article may
be suspended by the City Administrator or revoked by the City Council at any
time. A violation of any of the provisions of this article or of any traffic
regulation of the City or of State or Federal statutes, shall be sufficient
grounds for the revocation of any license issued under this article and shall
be considered sufficient grounds for the refusal to grant a license in the
first instance.
(Ord. 839, passed 1-10-1949)
§ 42-74 INSURANCE.
   No license shall be issued under this article until and unless the applicant
for a license deposits with the City Clerk a prepaid policy or certificate of
liability insurance coverage for each vehicle. The policy or liability
insurance shall be accepted and approved by the Chief Legal Officer and issued
by a company authorized to do business in the State, indemnifying the applicant
in the sum of at least $10,000.00 for injuries or death to one person, or
$20,000.00 for injuries or death to more than one person and $5,000.00 property
damage in any one accident through the operation of the vehicle of the
applicant. The policy of insurance so deposited shall contain a clause
obligating the company issuing same to give ten days’ written notice before
cancellation to the City Clerk. The license for operation of the vehicle shall
expire upon the lapse or termination of the policy of insurance.
(Ord. 839, passed 1-10-1949; Ord. 1242, passed 1-3-1955)
§ 42-75 LIMITATION ON SIZE OF EQUIPMENT; INSPECTION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (a)   No vehicle shall be licensed, nor shall any vehicle be used by any
person for the purpose of removal of snow from sidewalks which has an effective
width of snow blade in excess of four feet, six inches and whose weight is in
excess of 2,300 pounds, notwithstanding any other provisions set forth in this
article.
   (b)   Before a license shall be granted by the City Clerk, every vehicle for
which a license is sought for the purposes set forth in §
42-69 shall be inspected by the Department of Public Works and Utilities for
compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 839, passed 1-10-1949)
§ 42-76 OPERATOR TO BE LICENSED UNDER STATE LAW.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle for the purposes set forth in §
42-69, unless the person has been licensed as an operator under the laws of the
State.
(Ord. 839, passed 1-10-1949)
CHAPTER 43: RESERVED
CHAPTER 44: RESERVED
CHAPTER 45: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
Article I. Planting at Intersections
   
45-1   Limitation on height
   
45-2   Obstructions to view to be removed by owner; notice to remove
   
45-3   Obstruction declared public nuisance; abatement by City; lien
   
45-4   Assessment of City’s cost in abating obstruction
Article II. Trees and Shrubs in Public Places
   
45-5   Authority and duties of Recreation and Park Board; City Forester
   
45-6   Permit for removing, planting and the like
   
45-7   Limitations on location for planting
   
45-8   Limitation on size of trees to be planted
   
45-9   Acts prohibited generally
   
45-10   Moving buildings necessitating moving trees and the like
   
45-11   Dangerous or diseased trees and the like
   
45-11.1   Emergency removal of trees, limbs, shrubs and the like
   
45-11.2   Same — notice
   
45-11.3   Same — when owner not located
   
45-11.4   Same — notice following completion
   
45-12   Dutch elm disease
   
45-13   Wires coming in contact with trees and the like
   
45-14   Appropriations to Recreation and Park Board
   
45-15   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Business of cutting, removing or trimming trees, see §§
12-43 –
12-45
   Community Beautification Commission, see §§
2-4 –
2-10
   Defacing trees in parks prohibited, see §
33-3
   Destroying or removing trees, flowers and the like in cemeteries, see §
33-4
   Trimming trees for community television antenna equipment, see §
15-18
ARTICLE I. PLANTING AT INTERSECTIONS
§ 45-1 LIMITATION ON HEIGHT.
   In any residence district on a corner lot there shall be no fence, wall or
hedge more than three feet in height, nor any obstruction to vision other than
a post or column or tree not extending one foot in greater cross-sectional
dimension between a height of three feet and a height of ten feet above the
established grade of either street within an area formed by the lot lines on
the street sides of the lot and a line joining points on the lot lines located
at a distance of 33 feet from the point on their intersection; provided that
any open construction four-foot fence lawfully existing as of the effective
date of this section shall be permitted to remain.
(Ord. 1119, passed 6-2-1953; Ord. 2141, passed 7-14-1969; Ord. 3046, passed 9-
28-1987)
§ 45-2 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VIEW TO BE REMOVED BY OWNER; NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Any obstruction to the view as mentioned in this article shall be removed by
the owner or agent within ten days after service of written notice to do so by
the Director of Public Works and Utilities or his or her designee. The notice
may be served on the owner if he or she can be located in the City, and if not,
on the occupant of the premises and on the owner by registered mail.
(Ord. 1119, passed 6-2-1953; Ord. 3046, passed 9-28-1987)
§ 45-3 OBSTRUCTION DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT BY CITY; LIEN.
   (a)   The obstructions mentioned in this article are declared to be a public
nuisance, and if the owner, agent or occupant shall neglect or fail to comply
with the order of the Director of Public Works and Utilities or his or her
designee and abate the same within the time specified in the notice required by
this article to be given, it shall be the duty of the City Administrator to
cause to be done and in that case, the cost and expense of removal of the
obstructions, in which costs shall be included all items of the cost of
abatement thereof, shall, when ordered by the City Council, be assessed by the
Board of Special Assessors on each description of land, which shall be and
remain a lien thereon until collected and paid as provided by this article.
   (b)   Upon completion of the removal or abatement of such obstruction, the
City Administrator shall make a report to the City Council, setting forth
therein the names of the owners, agents or occupant, with a description of the
premises, together with an itemized statement verified by him or her showing
the cost and expense of all labor and material used.
(Ord. 1119, passed 6-2-1953; Ord. 3046, passed 9-28-1987)
§ 45-4 ASSESSMENT OF CITY’S COST IN ABATING OBSTRUCTION.
   Upon receiving the report mentioned in §
45-3, the City Council shall, and it is hereby authorized to, direct the Board
of Special Assessors to make and prepare special assessment rolls which shall
contain the description of each lot or parcel of land upon which removal of
obstructions were made, the names of the owners of the lots or parcels of land,
together with the total cost of removing or abating obstructions to vision as
in this article provided to be assessed and the Board shall levy as a special
assessment on each description of land appearing on its rolls its portion of
the costs. Upon receiving such direction, the Board of Special Assessors shall
make an assessment roll as provided in Section
7-402 of the Charter and §
18-11.6 of this Code of ordinances, thereupon the same proceedings shall be had
and with like effect as is provided in the Charter for special assessments in
other cases.
(Ord. 1119, passed 6-2-1953)
ARTICLE II. TREES AND SHRUBS IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 45-5 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF RECREATION AND PARK BOARD; CITY FORESTER.
   The Recreation and Park Board shall have full power and authority over all
trees, plants and shrubs planted and to be planted in the streets and public
highways of the City, including the right to plant new trees and care for the
same, and to that end the Board is authorized to appoint a person, to be known
as the City Forester, and such other employees and assistant as may be
necessary, and to prescribe and define their respective duties and to fix the
amount of their compensation. The Forester shall be an expert, trained in the
care and culture of trees and whose duty it shall be, under the control and
direction of the Park Board to superintend, regulate and encourage the
preservation, culture and planting of shade and ornamental trees, plants and
shrubs on the public highways of the City, to prune, spray and cultivate and
otherwise maintain the trees, plants and shrubbery, and to direct the time and
methods incident to all trimming, spraying, pruning, and care of same. It shall
be the further duty of the Park Board to advise without charge the owners or
occupants of lots regarding the planting of trees, plants and shrubbery best
adapted to their particular street, and to advise as to the proper kinds of
trees, plants and shrubs, and to take such measures as may be deemed necessary
to control and exterminate all insect pests and plant diseases that may
injuriously affect trees, plants and shrubs that are now growing or may be
hereafter growing on the streets or public highways of the City.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
§ 45-6 PERMIT FOR REMOVING, PLANTING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, plant, prune, trim, spray,
paint, whitewash, cut or repair any tree, shrub or plant in any public square,
street, boulevard, lane or alley in the City, either for himself, herself or
for anyone else until he or she has secured a written permit therefor from the
Recreation and Park Board. And before any tree or shrub shall be so planted,
the person desiring so to do shall make an application in writing to the Park
Board upon blanks, specifying the location, alignment and kind of trees and
shrubs to be planted, and agreeing that the trees or shrubs, when so planted,
shall become the property of the City.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
§ 45-7 LIMITATIONS ON LOCATION FOR PLANTING.
   No permit for planting trees, plants or shrubs shall be given where the
clear space between the sidewalk and curb is less than three feet, neither
shall a permit be given where the soil is too poor to insure the growth of the
tree, plant or shrub, unless the applicant agrees to excavate a hole of not
less than five feet in diameter and two and one-half feet deep and to replace
the material removed with suitable good loam.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
§ 45-8 LIMITATION ON SIZE OF TREES TO BE PLANTED.
   (a)   No tree shall be planted which is less than two inches in diameter one
foot above ground. The permanent crown of new planting shall be not less than
eight to eight and one-half feet from the ground and not more than nine and
one-half feet from the ground. No permanent trees shall be planted closer than
40 feet apart. Intermediate temporary trees may be planted at 20-foot intervals
subject to removal at any time upon order of the Recreation and Park Board.
   (b)   Wherever when the owner of an undeveloped plat desires to plant trees,
the City Forester is authorized to permit planting of special sizes of street
trees for that location.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918; Ord. passed 1-7-1929)
§ 45-9 ACTS PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   No person shall do or be permitted to do any of the following acts or
practices in relation to any trees planted on any public square, grounds,
streets, boulevards or alleys in the City:
   (a)   Destroy, break, chop, girdle, deface, climb, injure, misuse or
interfere with any tree;
   (b)   To attach to or in any manner fasten any wire, rope, chain, cable,
sign, card, poster or other article to any tree or to any guard or stake
intended for the protection of any tree;
   (c)   To hitch or fasten any animal to any tree or shrub or to any guard
intended for the protection of same or to allow any animal to stand nearer than
six feet to any tree or shrub;
   (d)   To pile, dump or otherwise place or deposit within a distance of four
feet of any tree, plant or shrub any brick, stone, sand, cement, lumber,
mortar, lime, dirt or any other material;
   (e)   To allow coal gas or other gaseous substances deleterious to tree
life, any salt, brine, dust, oil or liquid to come in contact with or to flow
or drip on or into the soil about the base of any tree, plant or shrub;
   (f)   To dig a trench under or within six feet of any tree, shrub or plant
for the laying of any kind of pipe, main, tile or conduit without first
obtaining from the Recreation and Park Board a written permit therefor, in
which case the work shall be done in strict accordance with the requirements as
set forth in the permit; or
   (g)   To erect, repair, alter or remove any building, structure or portion
thereof, to excavate for any building, structure or for any other purpose in
such close proximity as to injure any tree or shrub without first having placed
good and efficient guards around the tree or shrub.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
§ 45-10 MOVING BUILDINGS NECESSITATING MOVING TREES AND THE LIKE.
   If the moving of any building should cause or make necessary the moving of
any tree, plant or shrub in any public highway, it shall be done under the
supervision of the Recreation and Park Board at the expense of the owner.
Should the moving cause the death of the tree, plant or shrub, the owner of the
building shall replace and make good the loss at his or her expense. All
instructions contained in the printed permits shall be strictly observed by the
parties to whom the permit is issued.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
§ 45-11 DANGEROUS OR DISEASED TREES AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit to be or remain upon any land
or premises owned or controlled by that person, any dangerous, diseased or
obnoxious trees, limbs or shrubs, after notice or knowledge thereof, and the
Recreation and Park Board may cause any such dangerous, diseased or obnoxious
tree, limbs or shrubs, to be removed and the conditions caused thereby abated
at any time after three days’ notice in writing to the owner or persons in
charge or control of the land or premises upon which the same exists.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
§ 45-11.1 EMERGENCY REMOVAL OF TREES, LIMBS, SHRUBS AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   In case of emergency, but not limited to windstorms, floods, freezes
or other natural disasters or due to the effects of accident, or the
advancement of age or disease, and upon the finding by Forestry personnel at
the scene that the condition of any tree, limb, bush or shrub or parts thereof
constitutes an immediate hazard and that danger exists to persons and/or
property which requires immediate action to alleviate the hazard and danger,
the Forestry Division shall remove the tree, limb, bush or shrub, or any part
thereof as soon as possible.
   (b)   Determination as to what constitutes the existence of an immediate
hazard and danger shall be at the discretion of the Forestry Supervisor.
(Ord. 2866, passed 1-24-1983)
§ 45-11.2 SAME — NOTICE.
   (a)   Before commencing work to remove any tree, limb, bush or shrub, or any
parts thereof, which have been determined to be an immediate hazard or a danger
to persons and/or property, the Forestry Division shall first attempt to notify
the owner or person in charge of the premises upon which the tree, limb, bush
or shrub is located, of the impending action, by the methods set forth below:
      (1)   By delivery of an oral or written notice to the owner or person in
charge of the property; or
      (2)   By delivery of the oral or written notice to a person of suitable
age and discretion at the premises.
   (b)   The notice shall advise as to the date and estimated time on which the
action shall commence, the location of the tree, limb, bush or shrub or parts
thereof, which are to be removed or trimmed, the reason for the action and the
name and telephone number of a person at the Forestry Division who can be
contacted for further information.
(Ord. 2866, passed 1-24-1983)
§ 45-11.3 SAME — WHEN OWNER NOT LOCATED.
   (a)   If the Forestry Division is unable to locate either the owner or the
person in charge of the premises, within a reasonable amount of time after it
has been determined that the tree, limb, bush or shrub constitutes a hazard and
immediate danger to persons and/or property, and must be trimmed or removed as
soon as possible, he or she may commence the work necessary to alleviate the
hazard and remove the danger, in the manner prescribed in §
45-11.1 hereof.
   (b)   Determination of what constitutes a reasonable amount of time under
the circumstances, shall be at the discretion of the Forestry Supervisor or his
or her designee.
(Ord. 2866, passed 1-24-1983)
§ 45-11.4 SAME — NOTICE FOLLOWING COMPLETION.
   (a)   Following completion of the work, the Forestry Division shall then
mail notice to the owner of record and/or the person in charge of the premises.
The notice shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The location of the tree, limb, bush or shrub which was removed or
trimmed;
      (2)   The reason for emergency removal or trimming;
      (3)   The date on which the work was done;
      (4)   The date of any prior attempt to notify the owner or person in
charge of the premises of the impending work, and where the notice was sent or
delivered;
      (5)   The cost of the work performed by the Forestry Division and to be
assessed against the property involved; and
      (6)   The name and telephone number of the person at the Forestry
Division who can be contacted for further information.
   (b)   This notice shall be:
      (1)   Mailed, by registered mail, to the owner of record of the property,
at his or her last known address; or
      (2)   Personally delivered to the premises to the person in charge of the
premises or a person of suitable age and discretion at the premises.
(Ord. 2866, passed 1-24-1983)
§ 45-12 DUTCH ELM DISEASE.
   Elm trees infected with the fungus Ceratocystis ulmi, commonly known as
Dutch elm disease, or infested with beetles known to be a vector of this
disease are hereby declared to be dangerous, and obnoxious trees and public
nuisances and all aboveground portions of such trees shall be removed and
destroyed by burning or by burying under a minimum of two feet of each by the
owner or person in charge or control of the property upon which same are
located, within ten days after receipt of notice in writing by the Recreation
and Park Board; provided, that between the dates of September 1 and April 30
the Recreation and Park Board shall have the authority to grant an extension
for a reasonable length of time to the owners of property upon which the
diseased elm trees are located, upon a showing that the requirements of removal
within ten days of receipt of notice would work a hardship. All notices issued
by the Recreation and Park Board during the period of September 1 through April
30 shall advise the property owner of the right to request this extension of
time.
(Ord. 1939, passed 10-3-1966)
§ 45-13 WIRES COMING IN CONTACT WITH TREES AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, having notice or knowledge that
any wire, cable or other thing, owned or controlled by the person is so
suspended or placed as to come in contact with any tree or shrub standing or
being in any public street, boulevard, lane, alley or public place in the City,
to permit the wire, cable or other thing to remain so suspended or placed for a
period extending over five days after such notice or knowledge, unless the
person shall insulate the wire or cable in a manner satisfactory to the Chief
Electrical Inspector, or in the event the insulation cannot be done to the
satisfaction of the Electrical Inspector, then, unless the tree or shrub shall
be trimmed in such a manner satisfactory to the Recreation and Park Board, the
person shall remove the electric wire or cable or other thing, if in the
opinion of the Chief Electrical Inspector it cannot be insulated and if, in the
opinion of the Park Board, the tree or shrub cannot be so trimmed without
injury thereto, the cost and expense of the insulation or trimming is to be
paid by the person owning or controlling the electric wire, cable or other
thing.
   (b)   The Recreation and Park Board shall have power to cause to be removed
any wire, conduit or other thing now existing, that burns or chafes any part of
any tree, whether trunk, root or branch in any street, lane, alley or public
place in the City, in case the owner of the wire, conduit or other thing shall
fail, after three days’ written notice, to take adequate steps to prevent
further injury.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
§ 45-14 APPROPRIATIONS TO RECREATION AND PARK BOARD.
   The City Council every year shall grant the Recreation and Park Board such
sums of money as it shall require and to the City Council shall appear
reasonable and just for planting, maintaining and care of trees, of the City,
for purchasing, or raising new trees, plants and shrubs and for other expenses
contemplated.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
§ 45-15 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Recreation and Park Board aided by the
Department of Police, to see that the provisions of this article are obeyed.
(Ord. 111, passed 12-2-1918)
CHAPTER 46: UTILITIES *
Section
Article I. In General
   
46-1   Definitions
   
46-2   Compliance with regulations concerning installation and use of air
conditioning equipment
   
46-3   Permit for installation of water-using air-conditioning equipment
inspection
   
46-4   Water conserving device
   
46-5   Order prohibiting use of water during water supply emergency
Article II. Water Supply and Sewage Disposal System
Division 1. Generally
   
46-6   Fiscal year for water supply and sewage disposal system
   
46-7   Operation, maintenance and control of system
   
46-8   Taking water from main without permit prohibited
   
46-9   Taking water for use other than that for which pipes were installed
   
46-10   Obstructing use or injuring fire hydrants and the like
   
46-11   Defacing, damaging or obstructing waterworks system
   
46-12   Letting water into premises without permission
   
46-13   Attaching device to water system which may cause pollution
   
46-14   Construction standards for hydrants
   
46-15   Use of hydrants without permission
   
46-16   “Consumer” defined; relationship between consumers and City; denial of
service; applying deposits to debts owed City
   
46-17   Disputed water supply and sewage disposal billing; inspection; consumer
hearing; adjustment of bill
   
46-18   Right of entry
   
46-19   Location of meters
   
46-19.1   Interference with operation of water meter or measuring device
   
46-20   Contracts to furnish water outside City
   
46-21   Consent of township officials as to laying and repairing pipe
   
46-22   Application for connection outside City; supplying of meter
   
46-23   Revocation of license for violation
   
46-24   Liability for violations by children, servants and the like
Division 2. Regulation of Water Sources
   
46-25   Use of spring or well water
   
46-26   Leasing buildings without approved water supply
   
46-27   Well inspections
   
46-28   Contaminated wells
   
46-29   Standards for determining contamination
   
46-30   Interference with Department of Public Health
Division 3. Fluoridation of Water Supply
   
46-31   Fluoridation required
   
46-32   Same — compliance Department of Public Health rules
   
46-33   Same — purchase of water from City of Detroit; unfluoridated water
Division 4. Backflow Prevention
   
46-34   Cross-connections — responsibilities
   
46-35   Required testing of backflow prevention devices
   
46-36   Connection to boilers
   
46-37   Piping identification
   
46-38   Potable water connection to commercial appliances and sinks that
require an air gap on the waste discharge
   
46-39   Notice of accidental backflow incident; penalty
   
46-40   Written notice
   46-41 – 46-47   Reserved
Article III. Rates and Charges
Division 1. Water
   
46-48   Water service placed in name of property owner of record; exception
   
46-49   Development of rules and regulations to implement § 46-48
   
46-50   Lien when charges delinquent; right of entry; cost of connections
   
46-51   Use of meters
   
46-52   Premises served by City water distribution system
   
46-52.1   Calculation of rates
   
46-52.2   When bills due; interest on past due amount
   
46-52.3   Sunset provision
   
46-53   Premises located outside City
Division 2. Sewage Disposal Generally
   
46-54   Definitions
   
46-55   Purpose of charges; applicability of charges
   
46-56   Basis for charges
   
46-57   Premises served by the City of Flint sewage disposal system
   
46-57.1   Calculation of rates
   
46-57.2   Industrial pretreatment program billing rates
   
46-57.3   Groundwater remediation program
   
46-58   Premises located outside City
   
46-58.1   Annual review of expenses
   
46-58.2   Industrial users billed under § 46-57(b)
   
46-58.3   Determination of average concentration of strength of waste delivered
   
46-59   Effect of obtaining water from other sources than City system
   
46-60   Exclusion of quantity of City water not discharged into sewer system
   
46-61   Water used for residential purposes but not discharged into sewer
system
   
46-62   Discharge of septic tank effluent into City system by septic tank
cleaners
   
46-63   Raw sewage delivered by truck to sewage disposal plant
   
46-64   Measuring quantity of water used from sources other than City system
   
46-65   Determination of quantity of water used for commercial purposes but not
discharged into sewer system
   
46-66   Determination of quantity of water used for residential purposes but
not discharged into sewer system
   
46-67   Meters or measuring devices generally
   
46-68   Time and method of payment; effect of failure to pay
   
46-69   City Treasurer to collect
   
46-70   Exemptions from charges
   46-71, 46-72   Reserved
   
46-73   Water pollution control fund establishment
   
46-74   Disposition of revenues
   46-75 – 46-83   Reserved
Article IV. Water, Sewer and Drain Layer Contractors Installation Regulations
Division 1. Installation, Permitting and Licensing
    
46-84   Short title
   
46-85   Applicability
   
46-86   Definitions
   46-87 — 46-93   Reserved
   
46-94   Permits for water, sewer and drain work
   
46-95   Owner responsibility
   
46-96   Permit required to legalize
   
46-97   To whom permits issued
   
46-98   Inspection of water and sewers
   
46-99   Fraudulent application of permit illegal
   
46-100   Permits revoked or expired
   
46-101   Incomplete installations
   
46-102   Refunds
   
46-103   Owner’s procedure when legally stopped
   
46-104   Permit not transferable
   
46-105   Noncompliance with notice of violation
   
46-106   Plans required
   
46-107   Buildings erected over public sewers
   
46-108   Easements for sewers
   
46-109   Purpose and adequacy of fees
   
46-110   Special service
   
46-111   Appeal
   
46-112   Misleading advertising signs and statements
   
46-113   Trenching and bedding
   
46-114   Water service pipe
   
46-115   Prohibited sewer fittings
   
46-116   Sanitary and storm drainage material and size
   
46-117   Abatement of drainage nuisance
   
46-118   Excluding surface water from the sanitary sewer
Division 2. Making Connections with Utilities
   
46-119   Definitions
   
46-120   Building sewers and connections with utilities
Article V. Wastewater Disposal Regulations
Division 1. Use of Storm Sewers
   
46-125   Purpose and scope
   
46-126   Definitions
   
46-127   General prohibition on non-storm water discharges to the storm sewer
system
   
46-128   Illicit discharges and connections
   
46-129   Spills and dumping
   
46-130   Exempted discharges
   
46-131   Permits
   
46-132   Inspections and monitoring
   
46-133   Powers of the City Director
   
46-134   Administrative orders and enforcement authority
   
46-135   Penalties, fines and remedies
   
46-136   Violation constitutes a public nuisance
   
46-137   Criminal violations
   
46-138   Storm water management program funding and fees
   
46-139   Vandalism and trespass
   
46-140   Severability
   
46-141   Conflict
Division 2. Use of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   
46-142   Purpose and scope
   
46-143   Definitions
   
46-144   Management, standards, rules and regulations
   
46-145   Connection with POTW required
   
46-146   Discharge prohibitions and limits
   
46-147   Dilution
   
46-148   Inspections
   
46-149   Sampling, analyses and tests
   
46-150   Reporting and notices
   
46-151   Use permits
   
46-152   Confidential information
   
46-153   Pretreatment
   
46-154   Spill prevention/remediation required
   
46-155   Interceptors and separators
   
46-156   Compensatory charges
   
46-157   Fees
   
46-158   Powers of the City Director
   
46-159   Orders
   
46-160   Notices of violation
   
46-161   Informal conference
   
46-162   Appeal Board
   
46-163   Judicial review
   
46-164   Stays
   
46-165   Continuing violations
   
46-166   Penalties, fines and remedies
   
46-167   Violation constitutes a public nuisance
   
46-168   Criminal violations
   
46-169   Affirmative defense
   
46-170   Vandalism and trespass
   
46-171   Lien for charges and fees
   
46-172   Recovery of costs
   
46-173   Publication of significant violators
   
46-174   Upsets
   
46-175   Bypass
   
46-176   Conflict with existing ordinances
   
46-177   Saving provision
   Appendix: Tables
Cross-reference:
   Electricity, see
Ch. 16
   Plumbing, see
Ch. 36
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 46-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   AIR CONDITIONING. The cooling or dehumidification, or both, of space for
human occupancy at temperatures not less than 60°F through the use of water.
   AIR CONDITIONING INSTALLATIONS. One or more air conditioning units, the
water for which passes through a common water, whether or not the units are
owned by the property owner, the tenant or both.
   WATER CONSERVING DEVICE. A cooling tower, spray, pond, evaporating condenser
or other equipment by which water is cooled and recirculated, thereby limiting
the use of water from the mains to the amount lost through evaporation and the
initial filling of the installation.
(Ord. 1328, passed 5-7-1956)
§ 46-2 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS CONCERNING INSTALLATION AND USE OF AIR
CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT.
   For the purpose of conserving water, it shall be unlawful for any person to
install or to operate air conditioning equipment without first conforming to
the regulations set out in §§
46-3 and
46-4.
(Ord. 1328, passed 5-7-1956; Ord. 1435, passed 4-28-1958)
§ 46-3 PERMIT FOR INSTALLATION OF WATER-USING AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT
INSPECTION.
   Any person who desires to install air conditioning equipment requiring the
use of water after May 18, 1956, shall obtain approval of his or her
installation and a permit to install the same from the Department of Buildings
and shall give notice of completion of the installation. Upon being given
notice of completion of the installation, an authorized representative of the
Department of Buildings shall make an inspection of the installation. For each
permit issued under the terms of this section, the applicant shall pay a fee as
specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code.
(Ord. 1328, passed 5-7-1956; Ord. 1435, passed 4-28-1958)
§ 46-4 WATER CONSERVING DEVICE.
   Any air conditioning installation of over three tons installed after May 18,
1956 shall be equipped with a water conserving device in such a manner that
water will be used only for the initial filling of the installation, make up
required by evaporation or flushing purposes during the air conditioning
season; except, that if the water is used from a well, no water conserving
device shall be necessary.
(Ord. 1328, passed 5-7-1956; Ord. 1435, passed 4-28-1958)
§ 46-5 ORDER PROHIBITING USE OF WATER DURING WATER SUPPLY EMERGENCY.
   (a)   Emergency conditions.  The Mayor shall be authorized to prohibit, in
whole, or in part, certain uses of water as provided below when, in the
reasonable exercise of his or her discretion, the following conditions exist:
      (1)   A prolonged drought or heavy demand period that results in supply
facilities, including the Detroit water and sewerage system facilities or City
facilities being operated at their optimum capacity with no apparent means
available to adequately maintain flows and residual pressure throughout the
system; or
      (2)   Any emergency condition which may arise which will negatively
affect operating flows and residual pressures in any substantial portion of the
system for any appreciable length of time. Causes of the emergency condition
include, but are not limited to, the significant reduction of pressure or water
supply to the City or areas of the City, the threat of loss, or other reasons.
   (b)   Water use reduction plan. The Mayor shall, upon determining that the
conditions stated above do exist, institute a water reduction plan which shall
be publicized to the Department’s customers via press releases, public notices
and other such announcements through available news media at least 24 hours
before the order becomes effective. The water reduction plan may include in
whole or in part the following prohibitions:
      (1)   Watering yards. The sprinkling, watering or irrigating of
shrubbery, trees, lawns, grass, ground covers, plants, vines, gardens,
vegetables, flowers or any other vegetation, except as such may be necessary to
preserve the stock of a commercial nursery or tree farms. The Mayor may allow
the limited watering of yards for properties with an even-numbered address on
even-numbered days and for properties with an odd-numbered address on odd-
numbered days;
      (2)   Washing mobile equipment. The washing of automobiles, trucks,
trailers, trailer houses, railroad cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
      (3)   Cleaning outdoor surfaces. The washing of sidewalks, driveways,
filling station aprons, porches and other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Cleaning buildings. The washing of the outside of dwellings; the
washing of the inside and outside of office buildings;
      (5)   Cleaning equipment and machinery. The washing and cleaning of any
business or industrial equipment and machinery;
      (6)   Ornamental fountains. The operation of any ornamental fountain or
other structure making a similar use of water;
      (7)   Swimming pools. Swimming and wading pools not employing a filter
and recirculating;
      (8)   Escape through defective plumbing. The escape of water through
defective plumbing, which shall mean the knowing permission for defective
plumbing out of repair; and
      (9)   No water-conserving device. The use of water in air conditioning
equipment of over three tons, where the air conditioning equipment is not
equipped with a water conserving device.
   (c)   Exceptions. In promulgating the water reduction plan, the Mayor shall
have the authority to except from these prohibitions the following:
      (1)   A reasonable use of water in any case necessary to maintain
adequate health and sanitation standards;
      (2)   Business and industries necessary for the public health, safety and
welfare; and
      (3)   Business and industries processing animal, vegetable and mineral
matter for food for human consumption.
   (d)   Written exceptions to prohibitions. The Mayor may provide written
exceptions to the prohibitions of this section where necessary to prevent
imminent excessive financial loss to a water user. Such written exceptions may
include the imposition of less restrictive prohibitions on the user than those
generally imposed under this section.
   (e)   Termination of emergency regulations. The Mayor shall cause a public
announcement to be made after it is determined that the emergency regulations
are no longer necessary.
   (f)   Enforcement. Any police officer or other City employee designated by
the Mayor as so authorized, may issue and serve appearance tickets or any other
charging document, charging a violation or violations of this section.
   (g)   Penalty for violation. Any person who violates this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500.00 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court. Each day any violation of this section occurs
constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 1328, passed 5-7-1956; Ord. 1435, passed 4-28-1958; Ord. 3509, passed 3-
10-2003)
ARTICLE II. WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 46-6 FISCAL YEAR FOR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   The water supply and sewage disposal system shall be operated upon the basis
of a fiscal year beginning July 1 of each year and ending on June 30 of the
following year.
(Ord. 1778, passed 6-29-1964)
§ 46-7 OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL OF SYSTEM.
   The operation, maintenance and management of the water supply and sewage
disposal system shall be under the immediate supervision and control of the
Director of the Division of Water and Waste, acting under the Director of
Public Works and Utilities and the City Administrator, subject, however, to the
rights, powers and duties in respect thereto which are reserved by law to the
City Council. The collection, depositing, disbursing and accounting of and for
the money and funds of the water supply and sewage disposal system shall be
under the immediate supervision and control of the Director of Finance of the
City. The Director of Finance shall have the authority to collect, cancel,
compromise and otherwise deal with the obligations of the users of the water
supply and sewage disposal system to pay rates and charges imposed for services
of the water supply and sewage disposal system, subject as above to the action
by the City Council.
(Ord. 1778, passed 6-29-1964; Ord. 2817, passed 12-7-1981)
§ 46-8 TAKING WATER FROM MAIN WITHOUT PERMIT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or use water from any water
main, water service pipe or stopcock connected therewith, without first having
obtained a permit for that use from the Division of Water and Waste and without
first having paid for the permit the sum established by the City Council for
the permits and use.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-9 TAKING WATER FOR USE OTHER THAN THAT FOR WHICH PIPES WERE INSTALLED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying any premises in the
City connected with the water mains and waterworks system by service pipes, to
take or use, or knowingly to permit others to take or use water from the water
service pipes or mains for any purpose other than for use in connection with
the premises for the services of which the water pipes or service pipes were
installed.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-10 OBSTRUCTING USE OR INJURING FIRE HYDRANTS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit any dirt or material
in any fire hydrant or in any valve box or stopcock box or to commit any act
tending to obstruct the use thereof, or in any manner to injure any fixture
connected with the waterworks system owned and operated by the City.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-11 DEFACING, DAMAGING OR OBSTRUCTING WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   No person shall deface, damage or obstruct or commit any act tending to
deface, damage or obstruct in any manner any building, machinery, pipe,
apparatus or other fixture connected with the waterworks system owned and
operated by the City.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-12 LETTING WATER INTO PREMISES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person, whether a licensed plumber or otherwise, after making any
connection with the water service pipes or after making repairs, or putting in
any new attachment, shall leave the stopcock open, or let the water into the
premises connected therewith without permission from the Superintendent of the
Waterworks Department.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-13 ATTACHING DEVICE TO WATER SYSTEM WHICH MAY CAUSE POLLUTION.
   No person shall install or use, or permit to be installed or used any device
in connection with any water service or water pipes connected with the
waterworks system which may to the slightest extent pollute the water supply
contained in the water pipes of the waterworks system by allowing water to flow
into the same from the Flint River or from any other source, or by any other
means.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-14 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR HYDRANTS.
   No hydrants shall be installed by the City having less than a six-inch
inlet, two-hose outlet for pump connection, and all such hydrants shall be
connected with water mains by pipes at least six inches in diameter, except
where the hydrant is connected to a four-inch water main.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-15 USE OF HYDRANTS WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than City employees, to use
hydrants without first having obtained permission from the Fire Chief and the
Superintendent of Water Supply.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-16 “CONSUMER” DEFINED; RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN CONSUMERS AND CITY; DENIAL OF
SERVICE; APPLYING DEPOSITS TO DEBTS OWED CITY.
   (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONSUMER. The person making application for water service or receiving
the benefit of water service or who is legally liable for the payment of bills
for the water service.
   (b)   Commodity. The furnishing of water service shall be deemed the sale of
a commodity and the relationship between the Division of Water Supply of the
City, and the consumer, that of vendor and purchaser.
   (c)   Service. Service may be denied to any consumer who is in default to
the Division of Water Supply or to the City.
   (d)   Deposit. Any deposit which may be required from any consumer shall
constitute a security for payment of the consumer’s water bills, and may be
applied including accrued interest, upon any legal debts of the consumer to the
Division of Water Supply or to the City, irrespective of wherever and whenever
the debts incurred.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939; Ord. 816, passed 6-28-1948)
§ 46-17 DISPUTED WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL BILLING; INSPECTION; CONSUMER
HEARING; ADJUSTMENT OF BILL.
   (a)   Any consumer may apply for and be granted a hearing as to any amount
appearing on his or her water bill which he or she feels to be unusually large.
Upon receipt by the City of a request for an adjustment, wherein it appears
that an inspection of the plumbing system at the consumer’s property is
appropriate, the Department of Building and Safety Inspections or the
Department of Water Supply may inspect the property prior to the City
considering whether or not to grant an adjustment. If it appears from the
inspection that the plumbing system is defective, in need of replacement or
repair, the appropriate notices shall be given to the consumer and the property
owner who shall thereafter correct all deficiencies noted before any billing
adjustment is made.
   (b)   The City Administrator or such other person as the City Administrator
may designate shall act as referee at the time of the hearing and shall render
a decision as to the validity of the billing of the disputed amount based on
evidence presented by the consumer and the results of the investigation
conducted by the Department of Water Supply or Building and Safety Inspections
Division.
   (c)   The referee may approve an adjustment in the consumer’s water bill
providing it is shown to his or her satisfaction from investigation by the
Department of Water Supply or Building and Safety Inspections Division that a
leak occurred due to the nonnegligence of the consumer, in plumbing of the
consumer which resulted in an unusually large bill without the knowledge of the
consumer, and where the consumer took immediate steps to repair the plumbing
defect causing this leak. The basis of this adjustment shall be 50% of the
excess to be absorbed by the customer, 50% by the City.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939; Ord. 2817, passed 12-7-1981; Ord. 3003, passed 7-
28-1986)
§ 46-18 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The City reserves unto itself and its authorized agents the right to enter
the consumer’s premises, in the manner prescribed by law, to inspect,
disconnect, repair and remove the water meter connections or any property
belonging to it, or to do any one of these things, or for any violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-19 LOCATION OF METERS.
   Water consumers shall provide a suitable place for the location of meters so
that the meters can be readily accessible for reading, repairing and to protect
meters from damage by frost or in any other matter. In case of damage to meters
resulting from improper location, the City may remove and repair the meter and
charge the cost of the removal and repair to the consumer upon whose premises
the meter was located.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-19.1 INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF WATER METER OR MEASURING DEVICE.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized employee
of the City of Flint, to turn on water service to any property; to tamper with,
reverse, bypass, modify or in any way interfere with the operation of any meter
or measuring device used in or on any water service line within the City; or to
permit another person or persons to tamper with, reverse, bypass, modify or in
any way interfere with the operation of any meter or measuring device used in
or on any water service line within the City, including but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Injure, or allow to be injured, a meter, wire, water service line
or pipe within the City;
      (2)   Prevent or allow the prevention of a water meter or any measuring
device used in or on any water service line within the City from duly
registering the quantity of water measured through the meter, or in any way
hinder or interfere with the meter’s proper action or just registration;
      (3)   Attach or allow to be attached a line, wire or pipe to a water
service line, wire, pipe or main served by the City. This subsection does not
apply to the use of a ground wire to ground an electrical system;
      (4)   Use or allow to be used any water supplied by the City, without the
written consent of the City or an authorized agent or officer of the City,
unless the water passes through a meter or is measured by a meter installed by
the City;
      (5)   Turn on water service after it has been disconnected by the City
for any reason, including, but not limited to, nonpayment of the water bill; or
      (6)   Use or provide to a person a key or specialized tool for the
purpose of turning on water service to a premises without authorization by the
City of Flint.
   (b)   In any prosecution under this section, upon a showing that a meter or
measuring device used in or on any water service line at a particular address
within the City has been tampered with, reversed, bypassed, modified or in any
way interfered with, proof that a person’s name is listed with the City for the
purpose of billing for water service at the same address shall constitute a
prima facie showing that person did, or permitted another person or persons to
tamper with, reverse, bypass, modify or in any way interfere with the operation
of the meter or measuring device used in or on any water service line located
at that particular address in the City of Flint.
   (c)   A person who violates subsection (a) above is guilty of a misdemeanor.
The court before whom a violation is prosecuted shall have authority to order
that restitution be made for water used without City authorization.
   (d)   A criminal prosecution under this section shall not in any way impair
the right of the City to recover full compensation in damages by civil action.
   (e)   If the City of Flint has determined that a person has used or consumed
water in a manner that bypasses the water meter, then the City may, at the
expense of the person caught using the bypass, install a meter on the bypass
line before turning the water service back on.
   (f)   A person who attaches any line, wire or pipe or any other device or
process to any line, wire or pipe of the City’s water supply system which
interferes with the proper operation and just registration of a meter within
the meaning of this section, is presumed to do so with the intent to avoid, or
to enable another to avoid, payment for water use and service.
(Ord. 1766, passed 5-4-1964; Ord. 2781, passed 10-13-1980; Ord. 3572, passed 6-
9-2004)
§ 46-20 CONTRACTS TO FURNISH WATER OUTSIDE CITY.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to empower the proper City officials
to execute contracts or otherwise binding agreements for the furnishing of
water to consumers outside of the City subject to the provisions of MSA §§
5.2581 et seq.; provided, that the quantity of water so furnished shall not at
any time impair the adequacy of the water supply within the City.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939; Ord. 1766, passed 5-4-1964)
§ 46-21 CONSENT OF TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS AS TO LAYING AND REPAIRING PIPE.
   Before any water mains, laid in any public street or highway outside the
City, shall be connected with the waterworks system, there shall be filed with
the City Council the consent of the officers of the township having control
thereof, permitting the laying of the water mains in the street or highway and
authorizing the officers, employees and agents of the City to enter upon the
streets or highways and make repairs of the water mains and to connect or
disconnect places where such water may furnish.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-22 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION OUTSIDE CITY; SUPPLYING OF METER.
   The rules and regulations established by the Division of Water Supply shall
provide, among other things, that the consumer of water in territory outside of
the City shall make an application in writing for the supply of water, and
shall deposit with such application an amount sufficient to secure payment of
all bills against the depositor. The consumer shall furnish a water meter, of a
type and design approved by the Division of Water Supply; the meter shall be
under the control of the Division of Water Supply during the time the water may
be so supplied on the premises.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-23 REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR VIOLATION.
   Where any person is convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
article, and at the time of the conviction holds a license from the City
Council or any board of the City as a drain layer, sewer builder or plumber,
the license shall thereupon be revoked without further action on the part of
the City Council or board granting the same. It shall be unlawful for any
person whose license is so revoked to thereafter tap or make any connection
with any water pipes connected with the waterworks system until he or she shall
have contained a further license from the proper board.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
§ 46-24 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS BY CHILDREN, SERVANTS AND THE LIKE.
   The parents, guardians or other persons having control of any minor child
shall be held liable for the violation of any of the provisions of this article
by any the minor child. The person owning or occupying any premises shall be
held responsible for the acts of their servants and other persons employed by
them or harbored by them in and about the premises for any violations of the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 291, passed 4-10-1939)
DIVISION 2. REGULATION OF WATER SOURCES
§ 46-25 USE OF SPRING OR WELL WATER.
   No person being the owner or occupant of any dwelling house, factory or
place of business in the City shall use or furnish, or permit to be used, for
human consumption by his or her family, guests, servants or employees, or by
any person permitted in the dwelling house, factory or place of business, any
water supplied from any spring nor from any well, unless the well shall have
been inspected by or under the direction of the Department of Public Health,
and unless the Department of Public Health shall have caused a certificate to
be issued showing that the supply of water from the well is fit for human
consumption.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-21-1917)
§ 46-26 LEASING BUILDINGS WITHOUT APPROVED WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner or in charge of any
dwelling house, factory or place of business in the City to lease or continue
to lease the same to another person to use, or to permit the use of the
dwelling house, factory or place of business by another person, if the water
supply intended for human consumption by the occupants of the dwelling house,
factory or place of business shall not be supplied from the waterworks system
of the City, or from a well the water of which shall have been inspected by or
under the direction of the Department of Public Health and a certificate issued
by the Department of Public Health showing that the water supply is fit for
human consumption.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-21-1917)
§ 46-27 WELL INSPECTIONS.
   Any person desiring to use water in the City supplied from any well, may
have the same inspected by or under the direction of the Department of Public
Health and giving the location in the City of the well.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-21-1917)
§ 46-28 CONTAMINATED WELLS.
   Any well designed for the supply of water for human consumption in the City
which may, after inspection by the Department of Public Health, or its duly
authorized representatives, be found to be unwholesome and contaminated with
disease germs, is hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance and dangerous
to the public health of the City. The Director of Public Health is hereby
authorized and empowered to abate the nuisance, or direct the same to be abated
by destroying the well or in any manner that may in the opinion of the Director
of Public Health be proper to prevent the further use of the water supply from
that well, and any person participating in such abatement proceedings shall
incur no liability therefor.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-21-1917)
§ 46-29 STANDARDS FOR DETERMINING CONTAMINATION.
   (a)   Water shall be pronounced unfit for human consumption:
      (1)   When the total number of bacteria in the water exceeds 100 per
cubic centimeter; provided that the water shall be planted on standard agar
plates, incubated 24 hours at 37°C temperature, and that the estimate shall be
made from not less than two such plates; and
      (2)   When the organisms of the colon bacillus group are present in one
cubic centimeter or in at least two of every three 10-cubic centimeter portions
of such water, planted in fermentation tubes containing lactose peptone broth,
within 24 hours of incubation at 37°C.
   (b)   The following shall be considered sufficient evidence of the presence
of organisms of the colon bacillus group within 24 hours of incubation at 37°C:
      (1)   The appearance of red, acid forming colonies of bacteria on Endo’s
medium plates; and
      (2)   The formation of gas in fermentation tubes containing lactose
peptone broth.
   (c)   The culture medium used for these tests shall be prepared in
accordance with standard methods of water analysis of the American Public
Health Association, as set forth in the last revision of Standard Methods of
Water Analysis.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-21-1917)
§ 46-30 INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Department of
Public Health or its duly authorized representatives in the inspection of water
supply of any premises in the City, or to prevent such inspection, or to
prevent the abatement of a nuisance created by an unwholesome and contaminated
water supply.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-21-1917)
DIVISION 3. FLUORIDATION OF WATER SUPPLY
§ 46-31 FLUORIDATION REQUIRED.
   The Water Division of the Department of Public Works and Utilities, in
cooperation with the Department of Public Health, is hereby authorized and
directed to institute fluoridation of the water supply of the City, in the
approximate amount of one part fluoride to every million parts of water, and to
do all things necessary to carry out the directive set forth in this section.
(Ord. 1815, passed 1-11-1965)
§ 46-32 SAME — COMPLIANCE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH RULES.
   The control and testing of water before and after fluoridation, the method
of determining the fluoride content of the water and tests for the purity of
the fluoride chemical shall, in all respects, comply with the rules and
standards promulgated by the Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 1815, passed 1-11-1965)
§ 46-33 SAME — PURCHASE OF WATER FROM CITY OF DETROIT; UNFLUORIDATED WATER.
   In the event the City purchases its water supply from the City of Detroit,
the City shall purchase fluoridated water. In the event the City purchases its
water supply from the City of Detroit, the Department of Public Health shall
certify that the safeguards, as provided for in this article, have been
provided for by the City of Detroit, and, if not, the City shall purchase
unfluoridated water and shall provide the fluorides to be added to the water
supply as provided for in this article.
(Ord. 1815, passed 1-11-1965)
DIVISION 4. BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 46-34 CROSS-CONNECTIONS — RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Utilities Director or his or her designee to
cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
supply where cross-connections are deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspection shall be based on potential health hazards
involved and shall be established by the Utilities Director or his or her
designee and approved by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. The
Utilities Director or his or her designee shall have the right to enter, at any
reasonable time, any property served by connection to the public water system
of the City for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems thereof
for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupants of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on the property. The refusal
of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed prima
facie evidence of the presence of cross-connections. The Utilities Director or
his or her designee is authorized and directed to discontinue water service
after reasonable notice to any property wherein any cross- connection or other
violation of this section exists, and to take other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the City’s potable
water supply system. A person or business that fails to conform with any of the
requirements thereof shall be assessed a fine not to exceed $500.00 per day per
device. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the illegal
water connection or cross-connection has been eliminated. Potable water supply
made available on the properties served by the public water supply shall be
protected from possible contamination as specified by this section and by the
State of Michigan Plumbing Code and §§ 46-43.1 through 46-43.7. Any water
outlet which is not supplied by potable water system must be labeled in a
conspicuous manner as “water unsafe for drinking.”
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3712, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 46-35 REQUIRED TESTING OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   All backflow prevention devices having external means of testing for proper
operation shall be tested and the testing of these devices shall be
accomplished by a State licensed journey person or master plumber who is
certified in cross-connection control. A copy of the completed test results
shall be filed, within 30 days after the anniversary date of the original
installation. All testable devices shall be tested at the time of installation,
after repair and every 12 months thereafter, or as often as the Utilities
Director or his or her designee deems necessary to ensure the public safety,
and submit a report to the Cross-Connection Control Department. All testable
devices which have potable water supply, shall be tested every year. The
reports shall be received by the Cross-Connection Control Department by January
1 or July 1 of each year as determined by the Cross-Connection Trades
Supervisor. A plastic envelope shall be permanently attached to each testable
device with a chain. The envelope will contain a card to keep test results of
the device, the signature and State license number of the certified person
performing the test. This card shall be updated after each test.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3712, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 46-36 CONNECTION TO BOILERS.
   The potable water supply to all boilers other than one- and two-family
dwellings shall be protected by an approved air gap or a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer. When boilers in one- and two- family dwellings
have chemicals introduced into the system, the potable water connection shall
be protected by an approved air or a reduced pressure principle backflow
preventer. The potable water connection to the boilers in one- and two-family
dwellings without chemical additives shall be protected by a double check-valve
assembly with an intermediate atmospheric vent.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-37 PIPING IDENTIFICATION.
   When a secondary water supply system is exposed to the public water system,
all secondary water piping shall be identified by distinguishing color or tags
and so maintained that each pipe may be traced readily in its entirety. All
process water piping shall also be color coded or tagged. If piping is
installed so that it is impossible to trace in its entirety, it shall be
necessary to protect the public water supply at the service connection in a
manner acceptable to the Superintendent of the Department of Water and Sewer.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-38 POTABLE WATER CONNECTION TO COMMERCIAL APPLIANCES AND SINKS THAT
REQUIRE AN AIR GAP ON THE WASTE DISCHARGE.
   When potable water is supplied to one-, two- and three-compartment kitchen
pot, pan and food preparation sinks, the waste shall discharge into a 12 x 12 x
8 inch floor or equal sink with a removable strainer. There shall be a minimum
air gap of one inch from the end of the waste pipe to the top of the rim of the
floor sink (see Table P-1505.1 1.1 of the State of Michigan Plumbing Code). Ice
machines may discharge into a 6 x 6 x 4 floor sink or equal.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-39 NOTICE OF ACCIDENTAL BACKFLOW INCIDENT; PENALTY.
   In the case of an accidental backflow incident, it is the responsibility of
the user to immediately notify the Superintendent of the Department of Water
and the Trades Supervisor of the Building and Safety Inspections Division of
the incident. The notification shall include the location of the incident, the
type of contamination, and any and all corrective actions including, but not
limited to, containment. The City may terminate the water service to prevent
contamination if in the determination of the Superintendent of the Department
of Water that this action needs to be taken to protect the public water supply.
Failure to comply with this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor and may be
subject to a fine not to exceed $500.00 and/or 90 days in jail for each day
that a violation remains in effect.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-40 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Within five days following a cross-connection incident, the user shall
submit to the Building and Safety Inspections Cross-Connection Trades
Supervisor a detailed written report describing the cause of the incident, and
the measures that will be taken by the Supervisor to prevent future
occurrences. Notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability as a result of damage to persons or property; nor
shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this article or any other applicable law or
ordinances.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§§ 46-41 – 46-47 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. RATES AND CHARGES
DIVISION 1. WATER
§ 46-48 WATER SERVICE PLACED IN NAME OF PROPERTY OWNER OF RECORD; EXCEPTION.
   (a)   Effective June 1, 1986 or as soon thereafter as practicable, water
service shall only be placed in the name of the property owner of record.
Duplicate bills may also be sent to the service address if requested in writing
by the property owner.
   (b)   However, in the case of industrial, commercial or residential rental
property registered with the City pursuant to Ordinance 3271, or its subsequent
amendments, where a legally executed lease contains a provision that the
tenant, not the property owner of record, shall be liable for the payment of
water or sewage system bills, and the tenant’s birthdate, social security
number and his or her driver’s license or Michigan I.D. number, upon filing an
affidavit and a copy of the lease, contemporaneously with an application for
service with the City, water service may be placed in the name of tenant.
   (c)   The property owner may apply for service in the tenant’s name where he
or she has a properly executed lease authorizing him or her to act as the
tenant’s agent for the purpose of obtaining water and sewer service from the
City.
(Ord. 3003, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 3313, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§ 46-49 DEVELOPMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT § 46-48.
   The City Administrator or department head designated by him or her shall
develop rules and regulations for the implementation of the provisions of this
provision set out in §
46-48 pursuant to Flint City Charter Section
1-801.
(Ord. 3003, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 3313, passed 11-13-1995; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§ 46-50 LIEN WHEN CHARGES DELINQUENT; RIGHT OF ENTRY; COST OF CONNECTIONS.
   (a)   Charges for services furnished by the water supply and sewage disposal
system to any premises located within the City of Flint together with
delinquency fees, late payment charges and penalty and service charges shall be
a lien thereon, and during April of each year the City Treasurer shall certify
any such charges which, as of April 1 of that year, have been delinquent six
months or more, to the City Assessor who shall enter the same upon the City tax
rolls of that year against the premises to which the services shall have been
rendered. Such charges shall be collected and the lien shall be enforced in the
same manner as provided in respect to taxes assessed upon such roll; provided,
however, the Director of Finance shall establish a dollar limit, below which
charges shall not be added to the real property tax roll. The dollar limit so
established shall take into consideration the cost of placing the charges onto
the real property tax roll; provided further, that when a tenant is responsible
for the payment of any such charge against the premises, and the City Council
is notified in writing, with a true copy of the lease for the premises attached
which fulfills the requirements of all ordinances, then no such charge shall
become a lien against the premises from and after the date of the notice.
However, the City Council may require proof that the tenant in possession has
been notified. No further service shall be rendered by the water supply and
sewage disposal system to the premises until a cash deposit not to exceed three
times the average periodic charge to such commercial or industrial premises or
$100.00 for such single-unit residential property to guarantee the prompt
payment of all service charges and an inspection to verify that the return to
the City of the water meter is in good condition. Deposits so made shall draw
such rate of interest as may be fixed by the City Council from time to time,
but such rate shall not exceed the rate of return which the City is then
receiving from the investment of the deposits.
   (b)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to the City or to any
person, firm or corporation, public or private, or to any agency or
instrumentality.
   (c)   The City reserves unto itself and its authorized agents the right to
enter the owner’s premises as provided by law to inspect, disconnect and repair
the City’s water supply and sewage disposal system, including meters and
measuring devices installed as provided herein, and reserves the right for any
violation of this article.
   (d)   The cost of water and sewer service connection for the City water
mains or sewer lines to private premises shall be the responsibility of the
property owner up to the property line, and the City shall install such
connection within the right-of-way.
   (e)   The City shall terminate water service after 60 days “past due”
payment and no later than 90 days.
(Ord. 1778, passed 6-29-1964; Ord. 2552, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 2579, passed 1-
10-1977; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3003, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 3218,
passed 10-12-1992; Ord. 3232, passed 4-26-1993; Ord. 3313, passed 11-13-1995;
Ord. 3510, passed 3-10-2003; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3682, passed 9-
25-2006; Ord. 3717, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 46-51 USE OF METERS.
   (a)   All water to be furnished by the system to each premises shall be
measured by a meter or meters installed and controlled by the City.
   (b)   Beginning on June 1, 1986, or as soon thereafter as practicable, for
any new application for water service, a remote meter shall be installed at the
property owner of record’s expense which shall be under the control of the City
of Flint. The property owner may elect to pay for the remote meter installation
at the time of the new application for water service, or may elect by
requesting in writing, to pay for the remote meter installation in ten monthly
installments added to and collected the same as the water bill. This charge
shall become a lien upon the premises as provided for in §
46-50(a). The payments shall be established from time to time by resolution of
the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A
of the City Code.
(Ord. 1778, passed 6-29-1964; Ord. 1877, passed 11-18-1965; Ord. 2483, passed
4-7-1975; Ord. 2485, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2552, passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 2767,
passed 5-6-1980; Ord. 2915, passed 7-9-1984; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord.
3422, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-52 PREMISES SERVED BY CITY WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   Charges for water service to each premises connected with the system shall,
as set forth in this section, be effective as to all water bills rendered on or
after June 1, 1986 through June 30, 1987. For all bills rendered on or after
July 1, 1987, the water rates shall be as provided for in §
46-52.1.
   (a)   (1)   Where the water bills are for large commercial and industrial
accounts, a readiness-to- serve charge shall apply. The charges shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file
by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
      (2)   All water usage shall be charged according to the rate contained in
the quantity rate schedule in Appendix A of the City Code.
   (b)   (1)   Where the customer has a remote water meter and the bills are
for residential, small commercial and industrial accounts, a readiness-to-
serve charge shall apply. The charges shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of the City Code.
      (2)   All water used shall be charged according to the rate contained in
the quantity charge rate schedule in Appendix A of the City Code.
   (c)   (1)   Where the customer does not have a remote reading meter and the
bills are for residential, small commercial and industrial accounts, a
readiness-to-serve charge shall apply. The charges shall be established from
time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk,
and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
      (2)   All water used shall be charged according to the rates contained in
the quantity charge rate schedule in Appendix A of the City Code.
   (d)   (1)   Quantity charge rate schedule shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
      (2)   The quantity charge portion of each bill is in addition to the
readiness-to-serve and is determined by applying the quantity charge schedule
to all water use.
   (e)   The City shall pay for metered water used by it at the foregoing
rates. Charges against the City shall be payable in monthly installments from
the current funds of the City, or from the proceeds of the taxes which the City
within constitutional limitations is hereby authorized and required to levy in
an amount sufficient for that purpose.
   (f)   The water fund shall pay to the general fund of the City $300,000.00
annually to compensate for municipal services provided to the Water Division.
The payments shall be paid in equal monthly installments.
   (g)   The Utilities Superintendent may, at his or her discretion, assign the
billings of any one group of accounts to the billing cycle he or she deems most
appropriate.
   (h)   The City Treasurer or designee is hereby authorized to cancel
penalties on inactive accounts. In the event that the charges for water service
furnished any premises shall not be paid within 30 days after the due date
thereof, the water services to the premises may be discontinued and a turn-off
fee shall be charged for any discontinuation of water service. Services so
discontinued shall not be restored until all sums then due and owing, including
penalties, shall be paid or satisfactory arrangements to pay have been made
with the City Treasurer, the Utilities Superintendent or designee. In such
cases where the water services have been discontinued for nonpayment, and the
bill is then paid, water service will not be restored without the prepayment of
the turn-on fee. Where same-day service is requested, an additional turn-on fee
must also be prepaid. The fees shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of the City Code. Where the person responsible for water service
is someone other than the property owner of record, a remote water meter must
be purchased by the property owner of record and installed as a permanent part
of the structure.
(Ord. 1778, passed 6-29-1964; Ord. 1877, passed 11-18-1965; Ord. 1994, passed
9-5-1967; Ord. 2483, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2485, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2552,
passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 2557, passed 5-10-1976; Ord. 2567, passed 10-11-1976;
Ord. 2767, passed 5-6-1980; Ord. 2915, passed 7-9-1984; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-
1986; Ord. 3003, passed 7-28-1986; Ord. 3124, passed 1-8-1990; Ord. 3242,
passed 8-9-1993; Ord. 3422, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-52.1 CALCULATION OF RATES.
   (a)   Every year the Director of Finance shall calculate and transmit on or
before April 15 to the Mayor and City Council the new water rate schedules with
a complete itemization of water system costs for all classes of customers as
given in §
46-52, for the purpose of calculating all bills for the forthcoming 12 months
beginning July 1 of that year. The new water rate schedules shall be published
at least 30 days prior to the date of implementation.
   (b)   Water rates shall be reviewed annually and the water rate percentage
index (WRI) as applied to the water rate schedules shall be limited to an
adjustment of 8% in any year unless:
      (1)   The adjustment is necessary to provide for all costs of operation,
maintenance, replacement and debt service of the water supply system; or
      (2)   The adjustment is necessary to comply with applicable provisions of
the City’s water supply revenue bond resolutions or ordinances.
(Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3494, passed 5-13-2002; Ord. 3513, passed 4-
28-2003; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-52.2 WHEN BILLS DUE; INTEREST ON PAST DUE AMOUNT.
   (a)   Interest due. Water and sewer bills shall be issued approximately 15
days prior to the due date thereof. Water and sewer charges are “past due” if
the City Customer Service Center or Treasury Department has not received full
and complete payment by close of business on the date due. An interest charge
equal to 1.5% per month shall be applied to any unpaid balance which is more
than 30 days past due and charged to the customer thereafter until all
outstanding fees, penalties and charges have been paid or entered upon a tax
roll.
   (b)   Paid in full. Receipt of a check or cash by the City Treasurer’s
Office on or before the day prior to the due date. It is the intent hereof that
payment be actually received by the Treasurer or the Treasurer’s authorized
representative and the date of mailing or postmark shall not be relevant.
(Ord. 3218, passed 10-12-1992; Ord. 3232, passed 4-26-1993; Ord. 3276, passed
6-13-1994; Ord. 3502, passed 10-14-2002; Ord. 3514, passed 4-28-2003; Ord.
3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-52.3 SUNSET PROVISION.
   The changes effectuated by the adoption of §§
46-50,
46-52.2 and this section shall remain in effect until May 30, 1994. If such
changes are not extended by readoption of the language at that time, the
previous language shall again become effective.
(Ord. 3218, passed 10-12-1992; Ord. 3232, passed 4-26-1993; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§ 46-53 PREMISES LOCATED OUTSIDE CITY.
   (a)   For those premises located outside the City of Flint and connected to
the City of Flint water supply system, water shall be supplied at rates
established in §
46-52(a), (b), (c) and (d) hereof; and beginning with all water billed after
July 1, 1987, at rates established in §
46-52.1(a), (b), (c) and (d); provided, however that all outside City
facilities owned by the City of Flint shall pay such rates as provided for
inside City users.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any rates established by an ordinance of the City of
Flint, the City Council of the City of Flint may authorize, by contract, other
rates for supplying of water from the City of Flint water supply system to
premises located outside the City of Flint.
   (c)   The charges for services to outside City users provided in §§
46-52 and
46-52.1 hereof shall not apply to those premises located along Carpenter Road
in the Beecher Metropolitan District so long as City residents located along
the Beecher Metropolitan District boundary who utilize the Beecher Metropolitan
District water supply system are provided such water supply service at the same
rate as residents of the Beecher Metropolitan District. So long as the
preceding conditions exist, these premises shall pay the same rate for water as
residents of the City of Flint.
(Ord. 1778, passed 6-29-1964; Ord. 1877, passed 11-18-1965; Ord. 2483, passed
4-7-1975; Ord. 2485, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3218,
passed 10-12-1992; Ord. 3232, passed 5-10-1993; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
DIVISION 2. SEWAGE DISPOSAL GENERALLY
§ 46-54 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this division, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section and are in
addition to the definitions contained in §
46-34.
   ANNUAL REVIEW. The report to be submitted once each year to the Mayor
reviewing the rates, adequacy of revenues and proportionality of the user
charge system.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. Waste normally emanating from residential living units and
resulting from the day-to-day activities usually considered to be carried on in
a domicile. Wastes emanating from other users which are to be considered
DOMESTIC WASTE shall be of the same nature and strength and have the same flow
rate characteristics.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, free-flowing waste, including cooling water,
resulting from any industrial or manufacturing process or from the development,
recovery or processing of natural resources, with or without suspended solids.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGES. The portion of the sewage service charge levied
on users of a treatment works for the charges for local capital costs, local
investment in plant facilities, and other local costs not regulated by 40
C.F.R. § 35.935-13.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All work, materials, equipment, utilities and
other effort required to operate and maintain the waste water transportation
and treatment systems consistent with insuring adequate treatment of waste
water to produce an effluent in compliance with NPDES permit and other
applicable State and Federal regulations, and includes the cost of replacement.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement, in whole or in part, of any equipment or
facilities in the waste water transportation or treatment system to insured
continuous treatment of waste water in accordance with the NPDES permit and
other applicable State and Federal regulations.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Any waste meeting the conditions imposed by this Code.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. All sanitary sewers, combined sanitary and storm
sewers, plants, works, instrumentalities and properties used or useful in
connection with the collection, treatment or disposal of sewage or industrial
wastes, owned and operated by the City, or operated in connection therewith
under the direction of the City or its designated agent.
   SEWAGE SERVICE CHARGE. The total charges to be levied against the users of
the sewage disposal system and shall consist of user charge and local capital
cost charges, the combination of which shall be the rate set forth in this
division.
   USER CHARGE. A charge, applied at a proportional and uniform rate without
regard to political boundaries, levied on users of a treatment works for the
cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Section 204b of PL
92-500 and includes the cost of replacement.
   USER CLASS. The kind of user connected to sanitary sewer including, but not
limited to, residential, industrial, commercial and small commercial:
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL USERS. All users that are domiciles or housing units,
either single-family or multifamily.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USER. A manufacturing or process facility which is
engaged in a productive or profit-making enterprise.
      (3)   MAJOR INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility
which is engaged in a productive or profit-making enterprise which has an
average volume of discharge to the sewage disposal system greater than or equal
to 10,000 gallons (13.37 ccf) per day and an average industrial waste strength
exceeding the normal domestic waste strength for one or more pollutant class,
as follows:
 
Normal Domestic Waste Strength
Suspended solids     300 mg/l
BOD                  250 mg/l
Phosphorus           15 mg/l
COD in excess of BOD 300 mg/l
 
      (4)   COMMERCIAL. All business and services places other than industrial
and small commercial.
      (5)   SMALL COMMERCIAL. A commercial account whose discharge to the
sewage disposal system averages less than 6,000 cubic feet per month and the
discharge consists entirely of domestic wastes. For the purpose of this
division, SMALL COMMERCIAL shall be included in the residential class.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 2566, passed 10-11-1976; Ord. 2985, passed
3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-55 PURPOSE OF CHARGES; APPLICABILITY OF CHARGES.
   (a)   Charges for the use of the sewage disposal system of the City are
hereby established for the purpose of maintenance, operation and repair of the
system. The charges shall be made against all premises which have sewer
connections with the sewer system of the City or which may otherwise discharge
sewage, either directly or indirectly into such or any part thereof.
   (b)   Charges for use of the City sewage disposal system imposed herein
shall be based upon water consumption of the property served by the system.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§ 46-56 BASIS FOR CHARGES.
   Beginning with billings made to premises on and after June 1, 1986 through
June 30, 1987, the rates shall be as specified in §
46-57. Beginning with the billings made to premises on and after July 1, 1987,
the rates shall be as provided for in §
46-57.1.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 1829, passed 4-12-1965; Ord. 2484, passed 4-
7-1975; Ord. 2486, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2767, passed 5-6-1980; Ord. 2985,
passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-57 PREMISES SERVED BY THE CITY OF FLINT SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (a)   (1)   Where the sewage bills are for large commercial and industrial
accounts, the following readiness-to-serve charges shall apply based on the
water meter size:
Meter Size Inches User Charges Readiness-to-Serve Charge
                               Inside City Outside City
Meter Size Inches User Charges Readiness-to-Serve Charge
                               Inside City Outside City
5/8               $8.04        $9.44       $10.56
3/4               $9.61        $11.71      $13.38
1                 $12.36       $15.40      $17.82
1-1/2             $19.07       $25.05      $29.95
2                 $26.74       $35.65      $42.23
3                 $57.01       $79.58      $95.00
4                 $98.11       $131.15     $160.80
6                 $191.27      $265.26     $321.60
8                 $286.44      $390.30     $480.84
10                $390.22      $530.22     $640.00
12                $462.47      $622.50     $750.84
16                $614.40      $821.94     $998.88
20                $743.68      $967.82     $1,186.80
 
      (2)   Additional charges for all sewage flow based on water metered to
the premises shall be made according to the rate contained in the quantity rate
schedule in subsection (e) below.
   (b)   (1)   Where bills are rendered monthly as to industrial users, subject
to the conditions set forth in §
46-58.2 upon which a charge for sewage disposal is imposed, the following
charges for sewage service shall be made on each meter monthly or any part
thereof.
Meter Size Inches User Charges Readiness-to-Serve Charge
                               Inside City Outside City
Meter Size Inches User Charges Readiness-to-Serve Charge
                               Inside City Outside City
5/8               $8.04        $9.44       $10.56
3/4               $9.61        $11.71      $13.38
1                 $12.36       $15.40      $17.82
1-1/2             $19.07       $25.05      $29.95
2                 $26.74       $35.65      $42.23
3                 $57.01       $79.58      $95.00
4                 $98.11       $131.15     $160.80
6                 $191.27      $265.26     $321.60
8                 $286.44      $390.30     $480.84
10                $390.22      $530.22     $640.00
12                $462.47      $622.50     $750.84
16                $614.40      $821.94     $998.88
20                $743.68      $967.82     $1,186.80
 
      (2)   Unit volume and strength charges:
         a.   User charge.
 
Volume               $0.216/Ccf
Suspended solids     $0.082/lb.
BOD                  $0.166/lb.
Phosphorus           $0.288/lb.
COD in excess of BOD $0.166/lb.
 
   Ccf = Hundred cubic feet
         b.   Volume and strength charge.
 
                     Inside City Outside City
Volume               $0.334/Ccf  $0.379/Ccf
Suspended solids     $0.102/lb   $0.103/lb.
BOD                  $0.217/lb.  $0.244/lb.
Phosphorus           $0.308/lb.  $0.313/lb.
COD in excess of BOD $0.217/lb.  $0.224/lb.
 
   Ccf = Hundred cubic feet
   (c)   (1)   Where the customer has a remote reading water meter and the
sewage bills are for residential, small commercial and industrial accounts, the
following readiness-to-serve charges shall apply based on the water meter size:
 
Meter Size Inches User Charges Readiness-to-Serve Charge
                               Inside City Outside City
5/8               $4.89        $5.82       $7.44
3/4               $6.41        $8.54       $10.18
1                 $8.86        $11.86      $14.35
1-1/2             $15.34       $21.36      $25.52
2                 $22.11       $30.49      $37.44
 
      (2)   Additional charges for all sewage flow based on the water metered
to the premises shall be made according to the rate contained in the quantity
rate schedule in subsection (e) below.
   (d)   Where the customer has no remote reading meter and the sewage bills
are for residential, small commercial and industrial accounts, the following
readiness-to-serve charges shall apply based on the water meter size:
Meter Size User Charges Readiness-to-Serve Charge
                        Inside City Outside City
Inches     $/Ccf        $/Ccf       $/Ccf
Meter Size User Charges Readiness-to-Serve Charge
                        Inside City Outside City
Inches     $/Ccf        $/Ccf       $/Ccf
5/8        $5.45        $6.38       $7.44
3/4        $6.97        $9.10       $10.74
1          $9.47        $12.47      $14.91
1-1/2      $15.90       $21.92      $26.08
2          $22.67       $31.05      $38.00
 
   Ccf = Hundred cubic feet
   (e)   Quantity charge rate schedule. All usage shall be charged according to
the rates below:
 
User Charge Total Quantity Charges
            Inside City Outside City
$/Ccf       $/Ccf       $/Ccf
$0.65       $0.89       $0.95
 
   Ccf = Hundred cubic feet
   (f)   The sewer fund shall pay to the general fund of the City $300,00
annually to compensate for municipal services provided to the Sewer Division.
The payments shall be made in equal monthly installments.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 1829, passed 4-12-1965; Ord. 2484, passed 4-
7-1975; Ord. 2486, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2767, passed 5-6-1980; Ord. 2985,
passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 2994, passed 5-27-1986; Ord. 3031, passed 3-23-1987;
Ord. 3124, passed 1-8-1990; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-57.1 CALCULATION OF RATES.
   Every year the Director of Finance shall calculate and transmit, on or
before April 15, to the Mayor and City Council the new sewage rate schedules
with a complete itemization of sewage system costs for all classes of customers
as given in §
46-57, for the purpose of calculating all bills for the forthcoming 12 months
beginning July 1 of that year. The new sewage rate schedules shall be published
at least 30 days prior to the date of implementation.
(Ord. 2767, passed 5-6-1980; Ord. 2915, passed 7-9-1984; Ord. 2985, passed 3-
24-1986; Ord. 3515, passed 4-28-2003; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-57.2 INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM BILLING RATES.
   In addition to any other charges provided for in this article, all
commercial, small commercial and industrial users discharging wastes into the
City’s publicly owned treatment works (POTW) shall be charged at the rate of
$0.015 per Ccf of water.
(Ord. 2944, passed 2-25-1985; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-57.3 GROUNDWATER REMEDIATION PROGRAM.
   In addition to any other charges provided in this article, all groundwater
remediation users discharging wastes into the City’s publicly owned treatment
works (POTW) shall be charged at the rate of $0.15 per Ccf of water.
(Ord. 3168, passed 5-28-1992; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-58 PREMISES LOCATED OUTSIDE CITY.
   (a)   For those premises located outside the City of Flint and connected to
the City of Flint sewage disposal system, charges for such service commencing
with billings on or after June 1, 1986 shall be at a rate as established in §
46-57(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) hereof and commencing with billings on or after
July 1, 1987, shall be at rates as established in §
46-57.1.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any rates established by any ordinances of the City,
the City Council may authorize, by contract, other rates for the use of the
sewage disposal system of the City by premises located outside the City.
   (c)   The charges provided in §
46-57(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) or §
46-57.1 shall not apply to those premises located along Carpenter Road in the
Beecher Metropolitan District so long as City residents located along the
Beecher Metropolitan District boundary who utilize the Beecher Metropolitan
District sewer disposal system are provided such service at the same rate as
residents of the Beecher Metropolitan District. So long as the preceding
condition exists, these premises shall pay the same rate for sewage service as
resident of the City.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 1829, passed 4-12-1965; Ord. 2484, passed 4-
7-1975; Ord. 2486, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2566, passed 10-11-1976; Ord. 2767,
passed 5-6-1980; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-58.1 ANNUAL REVIEW OF EXPENSES.
   Once every year, within 120 days after the close of the City’s fiscal year,
there shall be submitted to the Mayor an annual review of all expenses of the
sewer fund for the previous year and shall include an opinion as to the
adequacy of the rates to cover these expenses. Special mention shall be made
comparing the user charge to operation, maintenance and replacement expenses.
This report shall include a statement as to the proportionality of the user
charge system.
(Ord. 2566, passed 10-11-1976; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§ 46-58.2 INDUSTRIAL USERS BILLED UNDER § 46-57(b).
   (a)   To recover the extra cost of treating higher strength industrial waste
in the sewage disposal system, a major industrial user may be billed on the
basis of the charges stated in §
46-57(b) where the sum of the charges per unit volume (one Ccf) exceeds the
total quantity charge stated in §
46-57(e). The Supervisor of the sewage disposal system shall decide which users
are to be billed under §
46-57(b).
   (b)   Appeals from this decision shall be to the Director of Utilities and
shall be accompanied by an analysis of the user’s discharge by an independent
laboratory with a certified copy of this analysis delivered to the City by the
laboratory.
(Ord. 2486, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-58.3 DETERMINATION OF AVERAGE CONCENTRATION OF STRENGTH OF WASTE
DELIVERED.
   Determination of the average concentration of strength of the waste
delivered shall be the obligation of the user. Analysis shall be made on
representative samples collected by the user or his or her agent and at such
intervals as the City may designate, but not less than monthly. Cost of all
testing shall be at the user’s expense. The City may conduct multiple discharge
analyses or may require multiple discharge analyses from an independent testing
laboratory. The test results shall be used in determining the average waste
strength of the discharge. Sampling will be conducted according to accepted
methods. Composite or grab samples, depending on the user’s process, may be
used. All sampling shall be conducted as set forth in §
46-149.
(Ord. 2566, passed 10-11-1976; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§ 46-59 EFFECT OF OBTAINING WATER FROM OTHER SOURCES THAN CITY SYSTEM.
   For a property which uses water, all or part of which is from a source other
than the water supply system of the City, there shall be a charge for use of
the City’s sewage disposal system separate from and in addition to any charges
based on consumption of water from the City’s water supply system. The charge
shall be based upon consumption of water from the other source of supply and
the quantity of such water shall be determined as in §
46-64.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 1829, passed 4-12-1965; Ord. 2985, passed 3-
24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-60 EXCLUSION OF QUANTITY OF CITY WATER NOT DISCHARGED INTO SEWER SYSTEM.
   For a property upon which a charge for the use of the City’s sewage disposal
system is hereby imposed but which uses water from the City’s water supply
system for an industrial or commercial purpose so that the water so used is not
discharged into the sewage disposal system of the City, the quantity of water
so used and not discharged into the City’s sewage disposal system shall be
excluded in a manner provided in §
46-65 in determining the sewage charge against such property. The sewage charge
against the property shall be levied as though the quantity of water not so
excluded was the quantity of water received by the property from the City’s
water supply system.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 1829, passed 4-12-1965; Ord. 2985, passed 3-
24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-61 WATER USED FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES BUT NOT DISCHARGED INTO SEWER
SYSTEM.
   For a property upon which a charge for the use of the City’s sewage disposal
system is hereby imposed, which uses water from the City’s water supply system
for a purpose adjunctive to residential use, but in such a manner that a
portion of the water will clearly not be discharged into the City’s disposal
system, the quantity of water so used and not discharged into the City’s sewage
disposal system shall be excluded in a manner provided in §
46-66 in determining the sewage charge against the property.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 1829, passed 4-12-1965; Ord. 2985, passed 3-
24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-62 DISCHARGE OF SEPTIC TANK EFFLUENT INTO CITY SYSTEM BY SEPTIC TANK
CLEANERS.
   A charge shall be made for the discharge of septic tank effluent into the
City system from septic tank cleaners for all loads up to 1,500 gallons. The
charges shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the
City Code. The officer in charge of the Water Pollution Control Plant shall
adopt appropriate rules and regulations to control the manner, methods and
conditions under which the septic tank cleaner shall dump the effluent into the
sewage system of the City of Flint and upon adoption shall post the rules and
regulations at the Water Pollution Control Plant.
(Ord. 2032, passed 2-12-1968; Ord. 2486, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2985, passed 3-
24-1986; Ord. 3422, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-63 RAW SEWAGE DELIVERED BY TRUCK TO SEWAGE DISPOSAL PLANT.
   A charge per 1,000 gallons of raw sewage, or part thereof, delivered to the
sewage disposal plant, plus a service charge of per truck making the delivery,
shall be paid. These charges shall be established from time to time by
resolutions of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of City Code. The officer in charge of the Water Pollution
Control Plant shall adopt appropriate rules and regulations to control the
manner, method and conditions under which the raw sewage shall be dumped into
the sewage system of the City of Flint and upon adoption shall post the rules
and regulations at the Water Pollution Control Plant.
(Ord. 2050, passed 4-29-1968; Ord. 2484, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2985, passed 3-
24-1986; Ord. 3423, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-64 MEASURING QUANTITY OF WATER USED FROM SOURCES OTHER THAN CITY SYSTEM.
   The owner or owners of each property utilizing water from a source or
sources other than the water supply system of the City of Flint shall measure
the quantity of the water by installing, without cost to the City, a meter or
meters to measure the quantity of the water. No meter shall be installed or be
used for that purpose without the approval of the City’s Director of Public
Works. If the owner of the property fails to install and maintain, at his or
her expense, an approved meter or meters, the Water Supply and Pollution
Control Superintendent shall make an estimate of the amount of water from
sources other than the City’s water supply system which is discharged into the
sewage disposal system from the property, using the consumption of water based
upon the operation of the business of the occupant of the premises as a
standard, and bill the estimated water so discharged into the City’s sewage
disposal system as though the same was metered.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 2484, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2985, passed 3-
24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-65 DETERMINATION OF QUANTITY OF WATER USED FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES BUT NOT
DISCHARGED INTO SEWER SYSTEM.
   The quantity of water which a property utilizes for an industrial or
commercial purpose but which is not discharged into the City’s sewage disposal
system shall be determined by measurement by a device or devices installed and
maintained without cost to the City, but the owner or owners of the property.
The measurement may be made either of waste discharged into the sewage disposal
system, or of the quantity of water not so discharged. Provided, however, that
no such device or devices shall be installed or used for that purpose without
the approval of the Superintendent of Water Supply and Pollution Control as to
the measuring devices so employed and to the manner of installation, and
provided further that where, in the opinion of the Superintendent of Water
Supply and Pollution Control, it is not practical to install measuring devices
to continuously determine the quantity of water not discharged into the City’s
sewage disposal system, the Water Supply and Pollution Control Superintendent
shall determine periodically in such way and by such method as he or she may
determine to be reasonably accurate the percentage of metered water discharged
into the City’s sewage disposal system. Any dispute as to the exact amount so
discharged shall be submitted to the City Administrator after notice of the
estimate, and the decision of the City Administrator shall be final for the
current billing period.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 2484, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2566, passed 10-
11-1976; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-66 DETERMINATION OF QUANTITY OF WATER USED FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES BUT
NOT DISCHARGED INTO SEWER SYSTEM.
   The quantity of water which a property utilizes is a manner adjunctive to
residential use but which is not discharged into the City’s sewage disposal
system shall be determined by measurement by a device installed and maintained
without cost to the City by the owner of the property; provided, that no such
device shall be installed or be used for that purpose without the approval of
the Director of Public Works and Utilities as to the measuring device so
employed and as to manner of installation.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-67 METERS OR MEASURING DEVICES GENERALLY.
   All meters or other measuring devices installed or required to be used under
the provisions of this division shall be under the control of the
Superintendent of Water Supply and Pollution Control. The owner of the property
upon which the measuring device is installed shall be responsible for its
maintenance and safe keeping and all repairs thereto shall be made only by the
City at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§ 46-68 TIME AND METHOD OF PAYMENT; EFFECT OF FAILURE TO PAY.
   All charges for use of the City’s sewage disposal system shall be due and
payable at the same time and place that the City of Flint water bills are due
and payable. They shall be included in the same bills but shall clearly
indicate the amount of the bill allocated to charges for use of the City’s
sewage disposal system (except for the provisions of §
46-64 hereof), and shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner
as water bills, in addition to any other penalties provided by law, the City
may cut off from the property the use of the City water supply system and if
the water is obtained from a source or sources of supply other than the City’s
water supply system, the discharge thereof into the City’s sewage disposal
system shall be illegal and the owner of the property subject to fine or
imprisonment as is provided for violation of this Code.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 1632, passed 5-8-1961; Ord. 2484, passed 4-
7-1975; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-69 CITY TREASURER TO COLLECT.
   The City Treasurer is hereby charged with the duty of collecting all charges
for the use of the City sewage disposal system.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§ 46-70 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHARGES.
   No charges for use of the City’s disposal system is imposed on properties
outside the City so long as the owner of the property and the City are bound by
terms of an agreement for use by the owner of the sewage disposal system. There
shall be no charge upon property within the City not receiving service from the
City’s sewage disposal system. All exceptions to the provisions of this section
shall be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed
12-13-2004)
§§ 46-71, 46-72 RESERVED.
§ 46-73 WATER POLLUTION CONTROL FUND ESTABLISHMENT.
   As of July 1, 1959, the Director of Finance shall establish a fund known as
the “water pollution control fund.” Any monies appropriated to the water
pollution control fund shall be used solely to defray the expenses of the City
of Flint’s sewage disposal system including, but not limited to, maintenance,
operation, repair and expansion of the system.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 1771, passed - -; Ord. 2484, passed 4-7-
1975; Ord. 2985, passed 3-24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-74 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   The monies resulting from imposition of the charges directed by this
division shall be appropriated to the water pollution control fund of the City
of Flint.
(Ord. 1498, passed 7-29-1959; Ord. 2486, passed 4-7-1975; Ord. 2985, passed 3-
24-1986; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§§ 46-75 – 46-83 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. WATER, SEWER AND DRAIN LAYER CONTRACTORS INSTALLATION REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. INSTALLATION, PERMITTING AND LICENSING
§ 46-84 SHORT TITLE.
   This article shall function and be known as “The City of Flint’s Water,
Sewer and Drain Layer Contractors Installation Ordinance or Code,” and is
declared necessary for the preservation of the health, safety and welfare of
the people of the City.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-85 APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements herein shall pertain to licensed plumbers, plumbing
contractors, water, sewer and drain layer contractors for all water, sewer and
drain work and supervision thereof.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-86 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT. The department, individual or agency
established and authorized by a state, county, city or other political
subdivision created by law to administer and enforce the provisions of this
article.
   CLEANOUT. See Article II of the State of Michigan Plumbing Code.
   JOINT. See Article V, Subsections P-518.1 and P-519.0 of the State of
Michigan Plumbing Code.
   MAIN SEWER. The City’s main sewer trunk line in the City right-of-way or an
easement on private property.
   PUBLIC WATER MAIN. The City’s water main located in the City right-of-way or
an easement on private property.
   SANITARY SEWER. A building drain which conveys sewage only.
   STORM SEWER. A drainage system which carries rainwater, surface water,
condensate, cooling water or similar liquid waste.
   WATER, SEWER AND DRAIN LAYER. A person who has met the qualifications by
testing to obtain a water, sewer and drain layer’s license from the City and is
authorized to obtain permits from Building and Safety Inspections.
   WATER, SEWER AND DRAIN LAYER PERMIT. A permit issued by Building and Safety
Inspections covering any water, sewer and drain work.
   WATER, SEWER AND DRAIN WORK. Any and all water, sewer and drain lines; both
water, sanitary and storm, beginning five feet outside the building foundation
of any building that connects to the City’s main sewer in the street, and all
work and supervision associated with the installation, alteration or repair of
such lines and sewer cleaning. Exception: All water services shall be
installed, repaired and inspected by the City Water Department from the main to
the water meter.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-87 — 46-93 RESERVED.
§ 46-94 PERMITS FOR WATER, SEWER AND DRAIN WORK.
   Water, sewer and drain work shall not commence until a permit for such work
has been issued by the Engineering Division and/or Building and Safety
Inspections. A person who starts work on private or public right-of-way without
a permit shall pay a double administration fee specified by Ordinance 3071 and
as determined by the Plumbing Official. The double administration fee shall not
apply to emergency installation when evidence is proved to the satisfaction of
the Plumbing Official.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-95 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is declared unlawful for any homeowner or his or her agent to repair or
install water, sewer or drain lines which are either illegally or incorrectly
installed, or which have been installed without proper permits from the
Engineering Division and Building and Safety Inspections Division of the
Department of Public Works and Utilities. Water service may be immediately
terminated in those instances where public safety may be jeopardized.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-96 PERMIT REQUIRED TO LEGALIZE.
   An unlawful installation as indicated in §
46-95 shall only be declared legal when it conforms to the provisions of this
article, and when a licensed water, sewer or drainage contractor has secured a
permit covering the installation and inspection of the work.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-97 TO WHOM PERMITS ISSUED.
   Permits covering the installation of water, sewer and drain work shall be
issued only to City-licensed water, sewer or drain layer contractors.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-98 INSPECTION OF WATER AND SEWERS.
   It shall be unlawful for a water or sewer contractor to cover any
installation without contacting the proper City departments for inspection. The
Engineering Division shall be contacted for inspection of all storm and
sanitary sewer taps. Building and Safety Inspections shall be contacted for the
installation of the storm and sanitary sewers from the building to the tap.
Street Maintenance shall be contacted for the inspection backfill of all water
and sewer excavations within the City’s right-of-way. All water services shall
be installed and inspected by the Water Department.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-99 FRAUDULENT APPLICATION OF PERMIT ILLEGAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to present any fraudulent information in
making application for any permit from the Department of Engineering or the
Division of Building and Safety Inspections. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful
for the unauthorized use of the name of another person or company in order to
secure a permit.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-100 PERMITS REVOKED OR EXPIRED.
   (a)   Any license or permit issued in violation of the laws of the State,
the Charter of the City, this Code or any other ordinance, or a result of false
or fraudulent information or misinterpretation of conditions, shall be subject
to revocation at the discretion of the Department of Public Works and Utilities
Division of Engineering or Building and Safety Inspections. Any individual
failing to observe and fulfill the provisions of this article in accordance
with all specifications and regulations shall be declared in default by the
Plumbing Official and have his or her license and/or permit revoked. The person
holding the permit shall be notified to show cause why the permit should not be
revoked, and failure to appear shall be deemed sufficient reason to cause the
permit to be revoked without hearing.
   (b)   The enforcement of the surety’s obligations under the sewer and drain
layer surety bond due to the default of the contractor shall automatically
result in the revocation of the contractor’s license for a period of two years.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-101 INCOMPLETE INSTALLATIONS.
   (a)   Notification of quitting installation required. Should any licensed
water, sewer or drain layer, to whom a permit has been issued for an
installation of water or drainage, quit the installation for any reason, he or
she shall immediately notify Building and Safety Inspections.
   (b)   Inspection of partial installations quitted are required. If a
installation has been partially completed, the water, sewer or drain layer,
upon quitting the installation shall notify Building and Safety Inspections and
request an inspection. Acceptance of or violations against the work installed
shall be recorded by the Inspector on the permit according to his or her
findings. No refund shall be granted to the grantee of the permit fee for the
portion of the work that has been completed.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-102 REFUNDS.
   If no work has been done, a permit grantee shall be entitled to a refund on
his or her permit but an administrative fee shall be deducted in accordance
with established policy of Building and Safety Inspections. This administrative
fee shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council,
kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3425, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3630, passed 12-
13-2004)
§ 46-103 OWNER’S PROCEDURE WHEN LEGALLY STOPPED.
   In case the water, sewer or drain layer contractor or subcontractor who is
responsible for an incorrect installation expires, leaves the City or is
prevented by legal processes from completing or correcting an inadequate,
incorrect or otherwise illegal installation, the owner of the property shall be
responsible for securing the services of a licensed water, sewer or drain layer
contractor who shall secure all required permits as hereinafter provided, and
then cause the installation to conform with this article and any other
applicable provision of this Code or other ordinance of the City.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-104 PERMIT NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   The contractor who completes the installation started by another shall
secure a permit covering the work he or she is to do, and the latter contractor
shall be responsible in either case for all work done under his or her
supervision, as well as proper and satisfactory operation of the entire water,
sewer or drainage system done by either of the contractors.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-105 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   Any person to whom Engineering and Building and Safety Inspections has
issued permits or licenses for the installation of water or sewers or other
work must have the work inspected for compliance with this article and any
other applicable provision of this Code or any other ordinance of the City or
codes. If the permit grantee has been issued a notice of violation, and the
notice of violation has not been complied with in accordance with the
provisions of this Code of ordinances within a period of seven days from the
date of the issuance of the notice, or immediately if notice of violation is
because of a lack of a required water, sewer or drain layer permit, or for
permitting water or sewer work to be installed by unlicensed persons, no
further water or sewer permits shall be issued to the person notified, until
the violation is complied with or the permit grantee has shown to the
satisfaction of the Plumbing Inspector that failure to comply is due to
circumstance or conditions beyond his or her control.
   (b)   Any condition which jeopardizes the safety and health of the City’s
citizens, as determined by the Plumbing Official, shall convey upon the City
the right to complete the project immediately to insure the safety and health
of its citizens and to charge the expense thereof, including the cost to
correct defective work and completion of the project, additional
administrative, legal, design, professional, delay costs and actual or
liquidated damages, to the permit holder.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-106 PLANS REQUIRED.
   Every plot plan for industrial and commercial structures shall be sealed
plans and shall have the location of the water, sewer or drain work to be done
and shall show the location, size and depth of the City’s water and sewer
mains. Plans which have been submitted and approved by Building and Safety
Inspections and, if changes are made during construction of the water service,
sanitary or storm sewer work which are not in substantial conformity to the
approved plans, the general contractor and/or owner and/or supervising
architect shall be in violation of this article until such time as amended
plans showing the changes are approved by and placed on file with Building and
Safety Inspections. Single- and two-family dwellings are not required to have
aforementioned plans.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-107 BUILDINGS ERECTED OVER PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (a)   No structure shall be erected over a public sewer or water main unless
an exception is granted by the Director of Public Works and Utilities.
   (b)   Any structure erected over a public sewer shall have all plans,
specifications and construction approved by Building and Safety Inspections and
by the City Engineer subject to granting to the City an easement for access to
the sewer for its maintenance, repair or operation. Such easement, plans and
specifications shall satisfy the interested City agencies that the sewer will
withstand structural loading, internal pressures, methods of connecting
building drains thereto, and any other pertinent factors which may develop as a
result of the erection of the structure and use of the premises. Any structural
problem that may occur as a result of a structure being built over a City
sewer, the owner shall be held liable for any subsequent damages hereafter.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-108 EASEMENTS FOR SEWERS.
   (a)   Unless a right-of-way or easement is recorded with the Genesee County
Register of Deeds and is submitted to the Building and Safety Inspections
Division, it shall be unlawful to install any water, sewer or drain from any
building or premises on any adjacent property or premises, even though at the
time of the proposed installation the adjacent properties are under common
ownership.
   (b)   Any water, sewer and drain permits hereafter issued without such
record of easement for installation shall be null and void, and installations
made without such record of easement shall be removed in case of inability on
the part of the person desiring right-of-way to secure an easement or right-of-
way within 30 days after notice of violation.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-109 PURPOSE AND ADEQUACY OF FEES.
   Fees established for services to be rendered by staff of the Department of
Public Works and Utilities or other cost departments, e.g., permits,
certificates or inspection and reinspection, licenses, registrations,
inspection, reinspection, surveys, reports, plan examination, testing and the
like, shall be equitable and sufficient to cover, insofar as possible to
determine or reasonably anticipate, the cost incurred for those services.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-110 SPECIAL SERVICE.
   Should any installation or part thereof, of any water, sewer or drainage
system, necessitate the actual presence of the Plumbing Inspector, an Inspector
from the Department of Public Works and Utilities or any other department
throughout the installation process in order that proper inspection may be
made, a fee may be charged, should the original cost of the permit be
insufficient, at this rate, to cover the cost of this special service as well
as the normal administrative service of Engineering, Building and Safety
Inspections or any other department. The fee shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3425, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3630, passed 12-
13-2004)
§ 46-111 APPEAL.
   (a)   Any person shall have the right to petition the Construction Board of
Appeals regarding a decision of the Plumbing Code Official to refuse to grant a
modification of the provisions of this article or the Plumbing Code covering
the manner of construction or materials to be used in the installation, repair
of water, sewer or drainage systems. Application for appeal shall be based on a
claim that the true intent of the Plumbing Code and any ordinance or rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, and that the
provisions of this article do not apply, or an equally good or better form of
construction can be used. The application shall be filed on a form obtained
from Building and Safety Inspections within 20 days after the notice was
served.
   (b)   A fee shall be deposited with Building and Safety Inspections at the
time the appeal application is filed with City’s Construction Board of Appeals.
The fee shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the
City Code.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3425, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3630, passed 12-
13-2004)
§ 46-112 MISLEADING ADVERTISING SIGNS AND STATEMENTS.
   Any word or words used in any sign, display, business form or document, or
advertising medium which indicates or tends to indicate that any person, firm
or corporation is qualified to contract for, supervise, install, repair,
replace, remove or service any water, sewer or drain which requires a permit
and/or inspection from the direction of plumbing inspection shall be in
violation of this article unless uttered, published or displayed by authority
of a licensed or registered plumber or licensed water, sewer or drain layer
whose place of business is known to and registered with the authority specified
by the statutes of the State and this Code of ordinances of the City.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-113 TRENCHING AND BEDDING.
   Refer to Section P-309.0 “Protection of pipes” of the BOCA National Plumbing
Code and § 46-120(d), backfill requirements, (e) time limit on open trenches
and (f) barricade requirements hereof. Refer to the State of Michigan Highway
Department, Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-114 WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   Installation of the water service shall be installed in accordance with the
State of Michigan Plumbing Code, Chapter 15, Subsections P-1504.2, P-1502.2 and
Chapter 36 of this Code of ordinances. The trenching for the water service from
the water main or curb box to the meter shall be dug by a City-licensed water,
sewer and drain layer under a permit from Engineering and Building and Safety
Inspections. He or she shall contract the installation of the water service to
the City’s Water Department. Backfill of the trench shall conform to P-308.5 of
the BOCA National Plumbing Code and
Chapter 36 of this Code of ordinances.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-115 PROHIBITED SEWER FITTINGS.
   Refer to the State of Michigan Plumbing Code, Article 6, Section P-605.0.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-116 SANITARY AND STORM DRAINAGE MATERIAL AND SIZE.
   (a)   Refer to the State of Michigan Plumbing Code, Chapter 4, Table P-404.0
and P-405.0. Material for sanitary sewers shall comply to the State of Michigan
Plumbing Code, Table P-403.3. The size of the sanitary sewer shall be sized in
accordance with the number of fixtures it serves but shall not be less than
four inches in diameter. All commercial sanitary sewers shall be at least six
inches in diameter from the City’s main sewer to five feet outside of the
building.
   (b)   (1)   Building storm sewers, roof conductors, parking lots or other
site developments shall be sized to Table P-803.0 of the BOCA National Plumbing
Code commentary or shall be of a calculation using the rational method. The
Manning Formula shall be used to select the appropriate pipe size. On-site
retention/detention will be required if the storm drainage outlet is incapable
of handling the developed runoff. The size of the storm sewer service lead
shall be a minimum of six inches. All parking lots shall have catch basins
installed and the number of catch basins shall be based on the area to be
drained. Exception:
         a.   Parking lots which back up to an open drainage area;
         b.   A storm sewer is not available; and/or
         c.   The cost for installing a new storm sewer to the area is cost-
prohibitive for the City.
      (2)   Tapping the main storm sewer or catch basin requires installation
and inspection pursuant to the rules of the Department of Public Works and
Utilities.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-117 ABATEMENT OF DRAINAGE NUISANCE.
   (a)   Any surface, roof or sump drainage which flows into or across any
adjacent premises, or buildings, so as to create a structural hazard, a health
hazard or a nuisance to the owners or occupants of the adjacent premises, shall
be abated by the owners of the improperly drained area, who shall cause the
drainage to be disposed of in a manner acceptable to the Plumbing Official.
   (b)   Should any surface, roof or sump pump drainage flow into, onto or
across a public thoroughfare, e.g., sidewalk, street or alley, and create a
nuisance and/or hazard to persons using the thoroughfare or cause stoppage or
undue maintenance of public drainage systems, the owner of the improperly
drained area shall abate the nuisance in accordance with orders issued by the
Plumbing Official.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-118 EXCLUDING SURFACE WATER FROM THE SANITARY SEWER.
   In buildings requiring basement or cellar floor drains, the building
sanitary sewer shall not be connected to the building sanitary drain until the
roof structure is complete and the foundation backfilling and adjacent earth
grading is complete. However, the building storm sewer shall be connected to
the building storm as soon as practicable. Subsoil drainage shall not be
connected to the sanitary sewer. There shall be a sump pump installed to remove
subsoil water.
(Ord. 3268, passed 1-24-1994; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
DIVISION 2. MAKING CONNECTIONS WITH UTILITIES
§ 46-119 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them by this section.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Flint, Michigan, a municipal corporation.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works and Utilities.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Works and Utilities or
his or her duly authorized representative.
   DISCHARGE. Spilling, leaking, seeping, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
dumping or depositing.
   GROUNDWATER. The water beneath the surface of the ground, whether or not
flowing through known or definite channels.
   OWNER. The owners or owner of the freehold of the premises or lessor estate
therein, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, an assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee or any other person, firm or corporation directly or
indirectly in control of a building, structural or real property, or his or her
duly authorized agent.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer that is owned and maintained by the City of Flint.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial waste waters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial
plants and institutions.
   SEWAGE or WASTE WATER. Any liquid or water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions, industrial, commercial and governmental
establishments, watercraft or floating facilities, or other places, together
with such groundwater infiltration, surface waters and storm waters as may be
present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer intended to carry only storm waters,
surface runoff, street wash water, subsoil drainage and noncontact cooling
water.
   USER. Any person, establishment or owner who discharges any domestic sewage
or industrial waste into the sanitary sewer system of the City or any system
connected thereto.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-120 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS WITH UTILITIES.
   (a)   Unlawful procedure. It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to do
any excavating, tap or make connections with any water mains, gas mains, sewer
or other service pipes in any street, lane or alley within the City of Flint
without first obtaining permission of the Director as herein provided.
   (b)   Water main connection requirements. All connections with any water
main shall be made by the City of Flint.
   (c)   Notice of required connection for paving. Whenever the City Council
shall determine to pave or gravel any street, lane or alley, it shall be the
duty of the Director to serve or cause to be served a written or printed, or
partly written and partly printed notice, upon the owner of any lot or parcel
of land abutting the street, if found within the City, requiring the owner to
make connections with all water mains, gas pipes, sewers or other service pipes
within ten days from the date of service of the notice. In case the Director
shall be unable to find within the City the owner of any lot or parcel of land
abutting the street, then the notice may be served by posting the same in some
conspicuous place upon the lot or premises. No street, lane or alley shall be
paved or graveled until the Director has made a written report to the City
Council to the effect that all such connections have been made in the street,
lane or alley proposed to be paved or graveled.
   (d)   Backfill requirements. When connections are to be made with any sewer,
water or gas mains or any other underground service in any street, the earth
and other debris excavated for this purpose shall be removed from the street
and the trench backfilled with sand or gravel in layers not to exceed eight
inches in thickness. Each layer shall be thoroughly and solidly tamped in
place; the backfill shall be finished to the same grade as the original surface
and shall be maintained in that condition for a period of one year from the
date after which they were installed. Where the existing roadway is cindered or
graveled, the final eight inches of the backfill shall be made of gravel. The
person charged with the duty of constructing or installing the underground work
and backfilling shall be required to make frequent inspections of all trenches
for which they are responsible during the one-year period and to maintain the
same as herein provided, except trenches under hard surface pavement, as
hereinafter provided. In case of failure to maintain trenches and backfill in
such condition, the Director is authorized by this article to make the
necessary repairs and charge the total cost against the person responsible for
the same. For the purpose of the sand or gravel backfill as required herein,
the excavated material shall not be used except after securing written
permission from the Director.
   (e)   Time limit on open trench. The person or owner causing an excavation
or trench to be made in any public street or thoroughfare in the City shall be
required to backfill and replace the trench as herein provided within a period
of three days, after work of excavating has been started, unless permission is
granted by the Director to allow the trench to be open for a longer period of
time. In case of the failure to promptly refill any trenches within a period of
three days, the City shall have the right to cause the same to be refilled and
the expense shall be charged against the person or owner responsible therefor.
   (f)   Barricade requirements. Every person digging or causing to be dug any
trench in any public street or thoroughfare, for the purpose of making
connections with water mains, gas mains, sewer mains or other service pipes,
shall place or cause to be placed and maintained at and along the trench,
proper signals, colored lights and barricades to give warning and prevent
accidents, but in no case shall a trench be dug so as to entirely block any
street for travel, without the consent of the Director. All barricading shall
be done in accordance with the City of Flint Barricading and Channelization
Manual for Temporary Traffic Control. In case of the failure to properly
barricade or light the excavations or trenches, the Director is authorized to
cause the same to be lighted or barricaded and the expense thereof shall be
charged against the person responsible for the opening. It shall not be
necessary for the Director to notify the person responsible for the trenches in
public streets or thoroughfares, before undertaking any such work which is
necessary for the safety and convenience of the public. The failure on the part
of persons installing the trenches to promptly pay all bills incurred by the
Department of Public Works doing the work shall be grounds for refusing to
issue further permits for excavations in streets.
   (g)   Sewer requirements. All sewer connections shall be made with approved
sewer pipe not less than six inches in diameter and at such locations in the
public sewers where branches or slants were placed for that purpose, if any.
Where there are no slants, the sewer may, for the purpose of making
connections, be tapped under the direction and supervision of the Plumbing
Inspector; the connection shall be made by a saddle device approved by the
Director. All work for the purpose of making sewer and water connections shall
be done in compliance with the rules, regulations and codes governing plumbing
in the City of Flint in accordance with the laws of Michigan relative thereto.
Whenever any existing sewer connections have been made with pipe smaller than
six inches internal diameter, then a stub connection not less than six inches
in diameter shall be constructed from the main to the curb to serve the
premises. However, the owner of any lot or parcel of land having a sewer
connection of less than six inches internal diameter will not be required to
connect to the new stub connection until such time as existing connection is
inadequate or required repairing in public property. In no case shall the
Director issue a permit to repair an existing connection less than six inches
in diameter under a pavement or gravel street where a six-inch stub line
constructed, then the connection of less than six inches in diameter shall be
replaced with six-inch tile at the time when replacements or repair become
necessary.
   (h)   Failure to connect. In case the owner of any lot or parcel of land,
when ordered by the Director in the aforesaid manner shall neglect or refuse to
make connections with the water mains, gas mains, sewer or other service pipes
as the case may be within ten days from the date of the service of notice
provided for in this article, the City Council may cause the connections to be
made and assess the cost thereof as a special assessment against the lot or
parcel of land benefitted, the assessment to be made and collected in the same
manner as provided in the Charter for the making and collecting of special
assessments to defray the cost of the construction of pavements, and the tax
shall be and remain a lien upon the lot or parcel until the same is paid, the
same as other special assessments.
   (i)   Excavations in City streets.
      (1)   Permit required. Whenever a person desires to do any excavating in
any of the streets, lanes or alleys of the City of Flint, a permit for such
excavation shall be obtained from the Director. The application for the permit
shall indicate whether the excavation work is for a water main, gas main, sewer
or other service pipes. An administrative charge shall be charged for the
permit. The permit shall be nontransferable and the fee nonrefundable. When the
work involves the connection with a sewer, the person employed to make the
connection shall hold a plumbing license or a sewer installer license in
accordance with the Code of the City of Flint. The qualifications of the
persons employed to do the work shall be verified at the time of application. A
person who is authorized to excavate by the permit shall furnish a bond to the
City in a form acceptable to the Chief Legal Officer in the sum of $2,000.00
conditioned for the faithful performance of the requirements of all the City
ordinances relative thereto. A bond shall not be required when advanced pay is
made in accordance with this section. An excavation permit shall not be deemed
to authorize the person to backfill or repave in a paved street, lane or alley.
All backfilling and repaving in a paved street, lane or alley shall be done by
employees of the City. All expenses for the work by the employees of the City
shall be borne by the person to whom the excavation permit is issued.
Application for excavations in paved streets shall state the maximum size of
the opening to be made in the pavement and the length of time desired to do the
work. A certified check in an amount at least 25% in excess of the Director’s
estimate of the cost thereof, made payable to the City Treasurer, shall be
furnished prior to the issuance of the permit in lieu of the bond. The excess
of the estimated over the actual cost, if any, shall be returned to the
applicant upon completion of the work.
      (2)   Method of computing units for calculating costs. A person granted
an excavation permit for the purpose of connecting with intercepting sewer
shall pay the connection charge per unit for the first unit and an additional
charge for each additional unit or fraction thereof based on the unit factor.
The charges shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the
City Code.
      (3)   Connections. Every connection shall be charged on the basis of at
least one unit. The connection charges shall be paid at the time of the
application for the excavation permit. The connection charges shall be
exclusive of and in addition to any fee or payment made or required for
engineering or inspection charges. The construction and installation of any
such connection shall be subject to the same rules and regulations that are
provided in this article.
   (j)   Permit information. The Director shall keep a record of all permits
granted under authority of this article, which will include the name of the
applicant and the contractor, the location of the work and the place in the
street where the excavation is to be made, as well as the purpose for which the
same is issued.
   (k)   Outside City applicants. When application is made for permission to
connect a building situated on property outside the City limits to the sanitary
sewer system, the City Council may authorize the Director to grant a permit for
the connection upon the following terms and conditions. Notwithstanding any
charges established by this article, the City Council may authorize, by
contract, other charges for the right to connect to the sanitary sewer system.
The owner of the property shall submit written permission from the governmental
unit in which the property is located to make connection to the sanitary sewer
system and water supply system of the City of Flint. The owner or owners
thereof shall pay such rates for sewer services as established by any ordinance
of the City of Flint for furnishing such services to consumers outside the
City. Each applicant whose premises are hereafter connected directly to a City
sanitary sewer shall pay to the City a connection charge. The connection charge
shall be per unit for the first two units per connection, and an additional
charge for each additional unit or fraction thereof based on the unit factors
for connection charges within the City of Flint listed in subsection (i)
hereof. The charges shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and continued in Appendix A of
the City Code.
   (l)   Separate sewers. A separate and independent building sewer shall be
provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard,
easement or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole shall be considered as one building
sewer.
   (m)   Work on private property. Excavation and backfill for building sewers
on private property may be made by the owner. Connections and installation of
the building sewer on private property shall be made by a licensed plumbing
contractor or licensed sewer contractor. All excavation, backfilling,
connections and installations shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of this Code in force at the time of installation.
   (n)   New use of existing sewers. Existing building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the Director, to meet all requirements of this article.
   (o)   Elevation of connection. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall
be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted in
accordance with the provisions of this Code by means approved by the Director
and discharged to the building sewer.
   (p)   Prohibited surface runoff connections. Unless specifically authorized
and controlled by the Director of the Department of Public Works and Utilities,
pursuant to written departmental guidelines promulgated by the Department, no
person or owner shall make connection of root downspouts, areaway drains, or
other sources of surface runoff, to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Such
disposal shall be properly metered and treated or otherwise controlled, such
that it shall have no adverse impact on sewage collection and treatment or
cause any harm to private or public property, human health or the environment
pursuant to the departmental guidelines referenced above.
   (q)   Prohibited groundwater connections. Unless specifically allowed and
controlled by the Director, exterior foundation drains or other sources of
groundwater shall not be connected to a building sewer or building drain which
in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. One-
and two-family dwellings shall be exempt from this requirement unless a storm
sewer is available within the adjacent street.
   (r)   Maintenance. The person whose building drain or storm sewer is
connected to a public sewer is responsible for the maintenance of the sewer
line from the connection with the public sewer in the public right-of-way to
the most remote fixture or structure on his or her property.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
ARTICLE V. WASTEWATER DISPOSAL REGULATIONS
DIVISION 1. USE OF STORM SEWERS
§ 46-125 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this division is to establish regulations for
controlling the use of the City’s storm sewer system and preventing pollution
of the receiving surface waters.
   (b)   Scope. These regulations shall apply within the City. Any other
municipality, drainage district or other political subdivision of the State
connected to or sending storm water through the City’s storm sewer system that
has the power to enact ordinances shall adopt an ordinance that is approved by
the City as being sufficiently similar to this article.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-126 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Flint, Michigan, a municipal
corporation.
   CITY DIRECTOR. The Director of Utilities of the City or other person or
persons designated by that person to exercise control over the City’s storm
sewers and matters relating to the City storm sewer system.
   CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any employee of the Water Pollution Control
Division of the Department of Utilities of the City of Flint holding the title
of Water Pollution Control Supervisor, Assistant Water Pollution Control
Supervisor, Environmental Compliance Supervisor, Environmental Compliance
Inspector, Senior Environmental Compliance Analyst, Environmental Compliance
Analyst or Water Quality Supervisor.
   CODE. The Code of the City of Flint.
   DETRIMENT. Any harm or damage, such as harm to human health or damage to
property or the storm sewer system.
   DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect entry of storm water or pollutants into
the City’s storm sewer system, whether intentional or unintentional.
   NUISANCE. Any condition that causes a public nuisance, including
interference with the use or maintenance of the storm sewer system.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, municipality, company, association, society,
corporation, partnership or group, including their officers and employees, who
have responsibility for or actual involvement in the matters regulated by this
division.
   POLLUTANT. Any material, other than storm water, which is discharged to the
storm sewer system or that is proposed for discharge to the storm sewer system.
This term also includes properties of such materials such as pH and heat.
   SITE OF INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Any area or facility used for manufacturing,
processing or raw material storage, as defined under 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(e)(14)
of the regulations of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, as
amended.
   STORM SEWER SYSTEM. The system of conveyances used for collecting and
transporting storm water owned by the City or those owned and operated by the
Michigan Department of Transportation that are within the City, but not
including any facilities intended to be used for collecting and transporting
sanitary or other waste water.
   STORM WATER. Any rainwater runoff or snow melt runoff.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3733, passed
11-19-2008)
§ 46-127 GENERAL PROHIBITION ON NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGES TO THE STORM SEWER
SYSTEM.
   Unless exempted from regulation under §
46-130 or authorized under §
46-131:
   (a)   Any discharge to the storm sewer system that is not composed entirely
of storm water is prohibited and declared an illicit discharge; and
   (b)   Any connection to the storm sewer system conveying discharges to the
system not comprised entirely of storm water is prohibited and declared an
illicit connection.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-128 ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   No person may maintain, use or establish any direct or indirect discharge or
illicit connection to the storm sewer system in violation of the prohibition
established in §
46-127, or any other provision of this division. This prohibition applies to
connections made in the past, regardless of whether made under a permit or
other authorization, or whether permissible under the laws or practices
applicable at the time the connection was made. The person directly or
indirectly responsible for the illicit discharge and/or connection shall either
immediately terminate the discharge and/or remove the connection or apply for
an interim permit under this chapter.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-129 SPILLS AND DUMPING.
   (a)   Corrective action. Dumping or spillage of any sewage, waste materials
or any other pollutants into the storm sewer system is prohibited. Examples of
such prohibited dumping or spills include, but are not limited to, motor
vehicle fluids, household hazardous wastes, grass clippings, leaf litter and
animal wastes. (Leaf fall and raking leaves into gutters and streets shall not
be considered dumping for purposes of this section.) In the case of a spill,
the person directly or indirectly responsible for the spill shall take
immediate action to contain and clean up the spill.
   (b)   Notification. As soon as any person has knowledge of a spill or other
prohibited discharge to the storm sewer system, the person shall immediately
notify the City. If the person is directly or indirectly responsible for the
discharge, the person shall confirm the notice in writing to the City Director
within three calendar days. The confirmatory written notice shall include a
detailed description of the spilled substance(s); the volume, location and
duration of the spill; all planned and/or completed corrective actions,
including actions taken to prevent future spills; and any other information
specifically requested by the City.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-130 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES.
   The following discharges are not subject to the general prohibition
established in §
46-127, unless, on a case-specific basis, the City Director determines that the
discharges may cause detriment, create a nuisance or cause or contribute to a
violation of State water quality standards in receiving surface water:
discharges or flows from emergency firefighting activities, water line flushing
and other contributions from potable water sources, landscape irrigation and
lawn watering runoff, irrigation water, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwaters, uncontaminated groundwater infiltration to the storm sewer
system, pumped groundwater (except for groundwater cleanups), runoff from
foundation and footing drains, water from crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensations, springs, water from noncommercial car washing, flows from
riparian habitats and wetlands, and residential swimming pool and other
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-131 PERMITS.
   (a)   Permit by rule. The following discharges to the City’s storm sewer
system are authorized if the requirements of this division are met. However,
the City Director may, in individual cases, require that the discharger obtain
an individual use permit from the City if the City Director determines that the
discharge may cause detriment, create a nuisance or cause or contribute to a
violation of water quality standards in the receiving surface water, as
provided in subsection (c) below.
      (1)   Discharges of storm water from sites of industrial activity.
Discharges of storm water associated with industrial activity from sites of
industrial activity regulated under 40 C.F.R. § 122.26 to the storm sewer
system are automatically authorized if the owner or operator is operating under
and in compliance with an NPDES storm water permit issued by the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality or owner or operator has submitted a “no
exposure” certification to the Department, and the owner or operator provides
the City Director with a copy of the NPDES permit or “no exposure”
certification within 30 days of issuance or reissuance of the permit or
completion of the certificate.
      (2)   Other discharges authorized by NPDES permits. Discharges to the
storm sewer system for which the owner or operator of the discharge has
obtained an NPDES permit are automatically authorized if the owner or operator
is in compliance with the permit and the owner or operator of the discharge
provides the City Director with a copy of the NPDES permit within 30 days of
issuance or reissuance of the permit.
   (b)   Interim permits. In cases where the City Director has determined that
it is impractical for a person owning or operating an illicit discharge or
connection to the storm sewer system to immediately cease the discharge or
remove the connection, the City Director may issue a permit authorizing the
discharge and/or connection for an interim period pending termination of the
discharge or removal of the connection. Such interim permits may not exceed one
year in duration, and shall contain a schedule for termination of the discharge
or removal of the connection.
   (c)   Individual permits. The City Director may, in individual cases,
require any discharger to the storm sewer system to obtain an individual use
permit from the City, if the City Director determines that the discharge may
cause detriment, create a nuisance or cause or contribute to a violation of the
State water quality standards in the receiving surface water. In cases where an
individual use permit is required, the following requirements shall apply to
the person directly or indirectly responsible for the discharge.
      (1)   Permit applications. Any person required to obtain an individual
use permit shall submit an application to the City, on a form provided by the
City, and supplemental documents, as needed, not more than 30 days after having
been ordered to do so by the City. The City may require the applicant to submit
the following types of information in the application: (i) needed names,
addresses and telephone numbers; (ii) business and/or manufacturing activities
engaged in; (iii) the type and amount of materials produced, used and/or stored
which are, or may be, in the discharge; (iv) the actual or proposed rate,
volume and timing of the discharge; (v) the amounts and types of materials
known and expected to be in the discharge; (vi) existing or proposed
procedures, equipment or systems used or intended to be used for controlling
the quality, rate, volume or timing of the discharge; and (vii) any other
information needed by the City to process the application. The application
shall be signed and certified by the proprietor or manager who is directly in
control of the business, institution or other entity that is directly or
indirectly responsible for the discharge. The procedures in §
46-52, regarding confidential information, shall be applicable to information
provided in the application.
      (2)   Permit requirements and conditions. Individual use permits may
contain the following requirements and conditions: (i) restrictions on the
rate, volume and timing of the discharge; (ii) restrictions on the amount of
certain materials in the discharge, including specific limits for various
pollutants; (iii) requirements for sampling and testing the discharge and
submitting the test results; (iv) requirements for measuring and recording the
rate, volume, and timing of the discharge and reporting the recorded data; (v)
requirements for establishing, implementing, operating and maintaining
procedures, equipment or systems for preventing spills of liquid materials,
treating storm water or otherwise controlling the quality, rate, volume and
timing of the discharge; (vi) requirements for submitting technical and other
reports; (vii) requirements for reporting and responding to violations of the
permit and this division; (viii) various fees for administering the permit; and
(ix) any other requirement or condition deemed necessary for properly
administering and enforcing this division. The procedures in §
46-61, regarding informal conferences and judicial review, shall be applicable
to the establishment of the permit.
      (3)   Permit duration. An individual use permit may extend for up to five
years. A person holding an individual use permit shall submit an application
for a new permit not less than 180 days prior to the expiration date of the
existing permit.
      (4)   Permit modification. The City Director may modify any individual
use permit in order to: (i) ensure compliance by the City with applicable
local, State and Federal laws; (ii) respond to changes at the permittee’s
facility that may or do affect the quality or quantity of its discharge to the
storm sewer system; (iii) ensure compliance by the permittee with this
division; and (iv) protect human safety, property, the storm sewer system and
the quality of its receiving surface waters. The permittee shall be informed of
any permit modification at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the
modification, unless a shorter period of time is necessary to meet applicable
law or to protect human health, property, the storm sewer system and/or the
quality of its receiving surface waters.
      (5)   Compliance with permit. Any person regulated under an individual
use permit shall comply with all of the provisions of the permit. A violation
of the use permit is a violation of this division, subject to the penalty,
damage and other enforcement provisions of this division.
      (6)   Permit revocation. The City Director may revoke a use permit during
its term or deny a use permit renewal if:
         a.   The permittee has failed to comply with any condition of the use
permit;
         b.   The permittee fails, in the use permit application or during the
permit issuance process, to disclose fully all relevant facts to the City, and/
or the permittee misrepresents any relevant fact at any time to the City;
         c.   The   City Director determines that the permitted discharge
endangers human health or the environment or may damage the storm sewer system
and the threat can be prevented or abated by revocation or denial of the use
permit;
         d.   The City Director determines that the permitted discharge has the
potential for, or actually is, causing or contributing to a violation of the
City’s NPDES permit for the storm sewer system and the actual or potential
violation can be abated or prevented by revocation or denial of the use permit;
         e.   A change in any condition that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the permittee’s discharge to the storm
sewer system;
         f.   The permittee is in default, after having received written notice
of such default, in the payment of fees or other amounts owed to the City under
this division; or
         g.   The permittee is in violation of any provision of this division.
      (7)   Permit revocation or denial. Upon revocation or denial of its use
permit, a user shall immediately terminate its discharge to the storm sewer
system.
      (8)   Limitations of permit transfer. Individual use permits are issued
to a specific person for a specific operation at a specific location and are
not assignable to another person or transferable to any other location without
prior written approval of the City Director. The City Director shall approve a
use permit transfer and make the necessary minor modifications to the use
permit to show the transferee as the permittee, if the transferor demonstrates
to the City that the following conditions exist:
         a.   The transferor has not violated any provision of the permit or of
this division during the six-month period preceding the date of the transfer;
         b.   As of the date of the transfer, there are no unpaid charges or
fees due to the City from the transferor under this division;
         c.   The information presented the application for the permit filed by
the transferor remains the same with respect to the discharge, facilities and
activities of the transferee, except as to the identity of the discharger; and
         d.   The transferor provides written evidence to the City Director
that a copy of the permit has been provided to the transferee and that the
transferee accepts responsibility for permit requirements.
      (9)   No transfer. If subsections (a) through (d) are not met, then no
transfer shall occur and a new permit and permit application is required.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-132 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (a)   Inspection and monitoring authority. In order to carry out the
provisions of this division and the City’s storm water pollution prevention
plan, any City enforcement officer shall have the same inspection and
monitoring authority and adhere to the same inspection procedures as that
delineated in §
46-148 of the City Code. In addition, the City Director may require the owner
or operator of any discharge or connection to the storm sewer to install and
maintain, at the owner’s or operator’s expense and in accordance with plans
approved by the City Director, a suitable structure to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the quantity, composition and concentrations of
discharges to the storm sewer system by the City or the owner and operator of
the discharge or connection.
   (b)   Self-monitoring. When necessary to carry out the provisions of this
division and the City’s storm water pollution prevention plan, the City
Director may require the owner or operator of any discharge or connection to
the storm sewer system to observe, sample, and measure the quantity,
composition and concentrations of the owner’s or operator’s discharge to the
storm sewer system and submit the results of the monitoring to the City
Director. This monitoring shall be at the owner’s or operator’s expense and
shall be conducted at such times and frequencies as determined by the City
Director.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-133 POWERS OF THE CITY DIRECTOR.
   The City Director is hereby empowered to, either directly or through others:
   (a)   Supervise the implementation of this division;
   (b)   Take enforcement action against any persons violating this division,
and, with the Chief Legal Officer, institute necessary judicial proceedings to
prosecute violations of the division and compel prevention and abatement of
violations of this division and nuisances arising therefrom;
   (c)   Investigate violations of this division and reports of illicit
discharges and connections;
   (d)   Issue orders to monitor discharges or other orders requiring
compliance with the division, including orders to immediately cease an illicit
discharge or remove an illicit connection or to do so within a time certain;
   (e)   Determine and assess civil penalties and civil fines for violations of
this division or permits or orders issued under this division; and
   (f)   Perform other actions necessary or advisable to assure compliance with
the requirements of the division.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-134 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (a)   Issuance of orders. Whenever the City Water Pollution Control
Supervisor (CWPCS) has determined that any person has violated or may violate
this division, the CWPCS may issue an order to take actions or to refrain from
actions as deemed appropriate by the CWPCS under the circumstances.
   (b)   Types of orders. The following orders may be issued by the CWPCS:
      (1)   Immediate cease and desist. An order to immediately cease and
desist any illicit discharge or remove an illicit connection. Such order shall
be final and in effect upon issuance;
      (2)   Order to cease and desist within a time certain. The CWPCS may
issue an order to cease and desist an illicit discharge or remove an illicit
connection by a certain time and date. The order may also contain such other
conditions as deemed appropriate by the CWPCS;
      (3)   Order to perform. The CWPCS may also issue an order to persons
subject to this division to require such persons to perform any action required
of it under this division or to comply with this division, including, but not
limited to, the following:
         a.   Submit samples;
         b.   Construct a monitoring structure and/or install sampling or
monitoring equipment;
         c.   Submit reports;
         d.   Allow access for inspection, sampling, tests, monitoring and
investigations;
         e.   Install, operate and maintain treatment equipment;
         f.   Reduce or eliminate a discharge or pollutants in a discharge or a
characteristic of a discharge;
         g.   Payment of storm sewer use fees;
         h.   Develop and implement procedures, construct structures or install
equipment for preventing and appropriately responding to accidental discharges;
         i.   Control, recover or mitigate the effects of materials
accidentally or intentionally discharged to the storm sewer system or which
could potentially be discharged to the storm sewer system (i.e., sills on
pavement or the ground); and
         j.   Conduct investigations or studies (i.e., environmental
monitoring, environmental risk assessments, hydro-geological studies and the
like) to determine the effects or risks associated with actual, potential or
past discharges; the actual or possible route(s) of entry of actual or
suspected discharges (i.e., through underground pipes or by infiltration); the
extent of environmental contamination which is or which may be causing a
discharge; or any other purpose as the CWPCS may determine; and to submit
reports documenting the findings of such investigations or studies.
   (c)   Content of orders. Any order issued by the CWPCS shall generally state
the facts and basis for its issuance, and the action or withholding of action
ordered as well as the time within which such action or withholding of action
shall be taken. No such order shall be deemed insufficient, however, for
inconsequential errors and omissions in the facts and bases for the order. If
any person subject to an order deems the content of the order to contain
insufficient information, the person may ask the CWPCS for additional
information. Multiple orders may be issued simultaneously, separately or in
combination as a single order by the CWPCS with respect to a single person.
   (d)   Consent orders. A person and the City may enter into an order by
consent and such order is enforceable by the City in the same manner as any
other order.
   (e)   Disconnection. The City may physically remove an illicit connection if
a person violates any provision of an order, including an immediate cease and
desist order.
   (f)   Notices of violation. 
      (1)   Issuance of notice of violation. The CWPCS may issue a notice of
violation with or without an order against any person deemed to be in violation
of this division or a permit issued under the division.
      (2)   Service. The notice of violation and/or the order shall be served
upon the user either by personal delivery or by first class mail addressed to
the person, except that an immediate cease and desist order may be written or
oral, and may also be served by telephone.
      (3)   Content of notice of violation. The notice of violation shall
specify the following:
         a.   Date of issuance;
         b.   If known by the City, the date(s), time(s) and place(s) of
violation, the nature of the violation, the substances discharged, and the
volume of the discharge, where applicable;
         c.   Reference to the pertinent section of this division, permit or
other law or regulation under which the violation is charged;
         d.   Reference to the pertinent law establishing penalties for the
violation;
         e.   Potential penalties and fines; and
         f.   The right of an alleged violator to present to the CWPCS written
explanations, information or other materials in answer to the notice of
violation, including any defenses.
      (4)   Notice to municipality. Any notice of violation issued pursuant to
this section upon any person within the corporate limits of any contract
municipality shall be served upon the municipality in the manner provided in §
46-134(f)(2), and the municipality shall be given notice, also in the manner
provided in §
46-134(f)(2), of all informal conferences conducted pursuant to the notice of
violation and the municipality may participate as an amicus curiae.
   (g)   Informal conference and judicial review.
      (1)   Informal conference. A person subject to an order, notice of
violation or permit decision that deems itself aggrieved by the order or notice
or permit decision may request an informal conference with the CWPCS. Such
request shall be in writing and submitted within 20 calendar days after the
permit decision or receipt of the order or notice of violation. This section
does not apply to municipal civil infraction citations and/or municipal civil
infraction notices as defined in
Chapter 1, §
1-12 of the ordinances of the City of Flint. The purposes of the informal
conference shall be to discuss the matter and try to reach a settlement of the
matter agreeable to the person and the City. The CWPCS may participate in the
conference or appoint a designee to participate. Neither the CWPCS nor his or
her designee shall be required to reach a conclusion or provide a decision as a
result of the conference. A person is not required to request an informal
conference before seeking judicial review.
      (2)   Judicial review. Appeals may be taken from any order or notice of
violation to a court of competent jurisdiction within 28 calendar days of such
action as provided by law by the person subject to the order or notice. No stay
of the order or notice shall apply unless the stay is ordered by the court.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3734, passed
11-19-2008)
§ 46-135 PENALTIES, FINES AND REMEDIES.
   (a)   Civil judicial relief. At the request of the CWPCS, the Chief Legal
Officer may institute proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction for the
abatement of any nuisance, and to seek relief for violations of this division,
or permit or order issued under this division. The Chief Legal Officer may
seek, and the court may impose, temporary or permanent injunctive relief,
damages, civil penalties under §
46-135(b), costs and such other relief as the court may order.
   (b)   Civil penalties. In an action brought by the City against a person for
violation of this division, or permit or order issued under this division, a
court of competent jurisdiction may impose a civil penalty of up to $5,000.00
per day per violation. In calculating the amount of the penalty, the court
shall consider the frequency of the violation by the person, the impact on
human health and the environment of the violation, the economic benefit to the
person gained by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
the compliance history of the person, and other factors deemed appropriate by
the court.
   (c)   Municipal civil infraction; civil fine. Violations of this division
shall constitute a municipal civil infraction, and the CWPCS and City
Enforcement Officers are authorized persons and authorized local officials to
issue municipal civil infractions citations (“citations”) or municipal civil
infraction notices to persons in violation of this division, except for
violations punishable under §
46-137. A citation shall be a written complaint or notice to appear in the 68th
District Court at the time and date specified. A citation may be issued for any
violation of this division or permit or order issued under the division except
for violations punishable under §
46-137. The civil fine for any violation of this division or permit or order
issued under this division shall be up to $5,000.00 per violation per day. In
calculating the amount of the municipal civil infraction fine, the CWPCS, City
Enforcement Officer or the court shall consider the frequency of the violation
by the person, environmental and human health impact of the violation, the
economic benefit to the person gained by the violation, the magnitude and
duration of the violation, the compliance history of the person, and other
factors deemed appropriate by the court, the CWPCS or the City Enforcement
Officer, as applicable. The provisions of
Chapter 1, §§
1-12 through
1-19 shall apply to municipal civil infraction citations and municipal civil
infraction notices issued under this division.
   (d)   Cumulative remedies. The imposition of a single civil penalty, civil
fine or criminal fine upon a person for violation of this division or permit or
order issued under the division shall not preclude the imposition by the City
or a court of competent jurisdiction of a combination of any or all of such
sanctions and remedies or additional sanctions and remedies with respect to the
same violation except as provided in §
46-135(c). Prosecutions of a criminal action against a person shall not be
dependent upon or held in abeyance during any civil proceeding regarding the
person.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3734, passed
11-19-2008)
§ 46-136 VIOLATION CONSTITUTES A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Violations of this division, or a permit or order issued under this
division, are declared to constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-137 CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Any person who willfully or intentionally violates any provision of
this division, or permit or order issued under this division, shall be subject
to criminal prosecution as a misdemeanor offense, and, upon conviction, shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided by §
1-7. Each day of violation is a separate offense.
   (b)   Any user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this division, or a use permit or an
order, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this division shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
1-7. Each day of violation is a separate offense.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-138 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM FUNDING AND FEES.
   (a)   Funding. The cost of implementing this division and the City’s storm
water management program shall be funded from the city water pollution control
fund, as established in §
46-73.
   (b)   Cost reimbursement and fees. The City Director is empowered to recover
all costs of implementing, administering and enforcing this division to the
greatest extent practicable from persons regulated under individual use permits
and persons found in violation of this division.
      (1)   Annual fees. The City Director may assess an annual storm sewer use
fee of $200.00 for each connection to the storm sewer system to persons
permitted to discharge to the storm sewer system under §
46-131.
      (2)   Use permit fees. Persons regulated under individual use permits,
pursuant to §
46-131(c), shall pay a use permit application or re-application fee of $100.00,
a use permit renewal fee of $100.00, and a use permit transfer fee (in the
event of a transfer of the use permit) of $100.00 to the City. In addition to
these fees, persons shall reimburse the City for any and all other expenses the
City incurs arising from: (i) processing incomplete, incorrect or otherwise
unacceptable use permit applications; (ii) establishing case-specific
restrictions on discharges to the storm sewer system; (iii) sampling and
analyzing discharges to the storm sewer system and inspecting permittee’s
facilities; (iv) enforcing use permits; (v) producing and mailing copies of use
permits; and (vi) other activities in connection with issuing, administering,
enforcing and transferring use permits.
      (3)   Other fees. The City Director may establish other fees by use
permit or order, as required for recovering the cost of implementing,
administering and enforcing this division.
(Ord. 3489, passed 2-25-2002; Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-139 VANDALISM AND TRESPASS.
   Any person who violates the following subsections shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
1-7 of the City Code. The notice provisions of §
46-134(f) shall not apply to this section.
   (a)   Vandalism. No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the storm sewer system.
   (b)   Trespass. No person shall partially or fully enter or otherwise access
any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the storm sewer
system, except as specifically authorized and controlled by the City Director.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-140 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word or section of this division is invalidated
by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, paragraphs,
words and sections shall not be affected and shall continue in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-141 CONFLICT.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this division are hereby superseded by this
division.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
DIVISION 2. USE OF THE PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS
§ 46-142 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this division is to establish standards, rules
and regulations with respect to the use of the POTW; to provide for certain
rates and charges for use of the system and to prevent pollution of the
environment.
   (b)   Scope. This division shall apply to the City of Flint. Any other
municipality, drainage district or other political subdivision of the State
that discharges into the POTW which has the power to enact ordinances shall
adopt an ordinance which is substantially similar to this division and which is
approved by the City as being sufficiently similar. This division provides for
the regulation of discharges into the POTW through the issuance of use permits
to significant non-domestic users, through monitoring and enforcement
activities, and through required discharger reporting.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-143 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this division, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings described in this section, unless the context in which they
are used specifically indicates otherwise.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water
Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and all rules promulgated
thereunder.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R., Chapter I, Subchapter N, Part 403.5(a)(1)
and (b). BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating procedures and
practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage, any of which may enter the
POTW.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter and biologically oxidizable inorganic
matter under standard laboratory procedures for five days, at 20°C, expressed
in milligrams per liter concentration, using Method 5210 B in Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, current edition.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams away from any portion of
a user’s treatment facility needed for compliance with pretreatment standards
to a point of discharge.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS (CPS). Pollutant limits for discharges to
POTWs, promulgated by U.S. EPA in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405
et seq., in accordance with § 307(B) and (C) of the Act, which are applicable
to a non-domestic user which engages in a category or categories of industry
that are subject to the following regulations:
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Electroplating (40 C.F.R. 413)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Organic Chemicals, Plastics, and
Synthetic Fibers (40 C.F.R. 414)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Inorganic Chemicals (40 C.F.R. 415)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Fertilizer Manufacturing (40 C.F.R.
418)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Petroleum Refining (40 C.F.R. 419)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Iron and Steel Manufacturing (40
C.F.R. 420)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Nonferrous Metals (40 C.F.R. 421)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Steam Electric Power Generating (40
C.F.R. 423)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Leather Tanning and Finishing (40
C.F.R. 425)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Glass Manufacturing (40 C.F.R. 426)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Rubber Processing (40 C.F.R. 428)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Timber Products (40 C.F.R. 429)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Pulp, Paper and Paper Board (40
C.F.R. 430)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Metal Finishing (40 C.F.R. 433)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Centralized Waste Treatment (40
C.F.R. 437)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Pharmaceutical Manufacturing (40
C.F.R. 439)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Transportation Equipment Cleaning
(40 C.F.R. 442)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Waste Combustors (40 C.F.R. 444)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Landfills (40 C.F.R. 445)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Pesticide Chemicals Manufacturing
(40 C.F.R. 455)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for the Battery Manufacturing Point
Source Category (40 C.F.R. 461)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Metal Molding and Casting (40
C.F.R. 464)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Coil Coating (40 C.F.R. 465)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Porcelain Enameling (40 C.F.R. 466)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Aluminum Forming (40 C.F.R. 467)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Copper Forming (40 C.F.R. 468)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Electrical and Electronic
Components (40 C.F.R. 469)
      Effluent Guidelines and Standards for Nonferrous Metals Forming and Metal
Powders (40 C.F.R. 471)
   C.F.R. The Code of Federal Regulations.
   CITY. The City of Flint, Michigan, a municipal corporation.
   CITY WATER POLLUTION CONTROL SUPERVISOR (CWPCS). The Director of the
Department of Utilities of the City or other person or persons designated by
that person or by the City Administrator to exercise control over City
collection system and the POTW treatment plant or certain matters relating to
the City collection system or the POTW treatment plant.
   CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any employee of the Water Pollution Control
Division of the Department of Utilities of the City of Flint holding the title
of Water Pollution Control Supervisor, Assistant Water Pollution Control
Supervisor, Environmental Compliance Supervisor, Environmental Compliance
Inspector, Senior Environmental Compliance Analyst, Environmental Compliance
Analyst or Water Quality Supervisor.
   CODE. The Code of the City of Flint.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM. All of the sanitary sewers, lift stations, pumps and
other equipment of the City and of a municipality, drainage district or other
political subdivision of the State which has a contract with the City for
discharge to the POTW treatment plant which are primarily installed to receive
wastewater and pollutants directly from users for transmission to the POTW
treatment plant.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment (including contractual obligations to purchase such facilities or
equipment) at the premises where the equipment will be used, including
preparation work at such premises, if the equipment will in any way actually or
potentially affect the quality or quantity of discharges or the measurement or
analysis of a discharge.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use in which the only pollutant
added is heat, shall be considered non-contact cooling water. Water discharged
from any use in which heat and other pollutants have been added, shall be
considered as contact cooling water.
   CPS. Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   DAILY CONCENTRATION. The sum of all concentration measurements for any 24-
hour period divided by the number of such measurements.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction (including infiltration) of pollutants into the
POTW which is either intentional or unintentional.
   FLASHPOINT. The minimum temperature at which vapor combustion will spread
away from its source of ignition.
   GARBAGE.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a discharge with no regard to the
flow which is collected over a period of time not exceeding 15 minutes.
   GROUNDWATER. Water which is pumped or otherwise captured from the ground and
which is not used in a process. Mere treatment of GROUNDWATER is not used in a
process.
   HEXANE-EXTRACTABLE MATERIAL. Any material, such as fat, oil or grease, which
is recoverable from wastewater by extraction with N-Hexane, using EPA Test
Method 1664, Revision A, and as defined therein; Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, Act 451 of 1994, as amended; or the Federal Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance as defined in Part 201 of the Michigan
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451 of 1994, as
amended, or the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
   INSTANTANEOUS CONCENTRATION. The concentration in any grab sample.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both: (1) inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal;
and (2) therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the NPDES
permit for the POTW, the Act or State act (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use
or disposal in compliance with the following statutory provisions and
regulations or permits issued thereunder (or any more stringent State or local
regulations): Section 405 of the Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)
(including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA), and including State regulations contained in any State
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean
Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research,
and Sanctuaries Act.
   MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE INDUSTRIAL LOADING. The daily maximum mass of a pollutant,
in pounds per day, which may be allowed by the City to be discharged to the
POTW by the aggregate of all non-domestic users.
   MDEQ. The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality or its successor.
   MG/L. Milligrams per liter.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307(c) of the Act
which will be applicable to such source if the standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         a.   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         b.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge at an
existing source; or
         c.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these processes are
substantially independent, the extent to which the new facility is integrated
with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in
the same general type of activity as the existing source shall be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of subsection (1)a. or (1)b. but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to existing
process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a new source has commenced if the owner or operator
has: Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site construction
program:
         a.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment;
         b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation
or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is necessary
for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or
equipment; or
         c.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase; contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss; and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
subsection.
   NON-DOMESTIC USER. A user that discharges pollutants other than, or in
addition to, sanitary sewage, but not including a user that is a municipality,
drainage district or other political subdivision of the State that only
discharges from its own collection system to the City’s collection system.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System to regulate the discharge of wastewater into the surface
waters of the State.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the State in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, cause a violation of any requirement of the Act
or State act.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, municipality, company, association, society,
corporation, partnership or group, including their officers and employees who
have responsibility for or actual involvement in the matters regulated by this
division.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions in moles per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any material which is discharged to the POTW or is proposed for
discharge to the POTW. The term also includes properties of such materials such
as pH and heat.
   POLLUTION PREVENTION. The reduction or elimination of pollutants at their
source by modifying production processes, promoting the use of alternative
substances, implementing conservation techniques, and reusing materials rather
than putting them into wastewater or allowing them to be discharged to the
POTW.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works, as defined by Section 212 of the Act,
which are owned by the City and the collection system. The term also means the
City or its authorized representative. This term includes any devices,
processes and systems used by or for the City in the storage, treatment,
recycling or reclamation of wastewater or sludge from the treatment works or
the collection system.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The POTW exclusive of the collection system.
   PRACTICABLE MINIMUM. The lowest level to which a pollutant can be reduced in
practice through the use of reasonable and cost-effective control measures.
   PREMISES. A lot or parcel of land, generally, or each lot or parcel of land,
or building, having any connection, direct or indirect, to the POTW, as the
context of the word within this division dictates.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, process change or by other means,
except for the use of dilution, unless expressly authorized by an applicable
pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Wastewater or pollutants from toilet, kitchen, laundry,
bathing or other facilities, all of which are used for household purposes or
for non-commercial purposes at a commercial location.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities of a user which causes them to become all or partially
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY
DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater, storm water, surface
runoff or groundwater.
   SIGNIFICANT NON-DOMESTIC USER. Any non-domestic user of the POTW that:
      (1)   Has a monthly average discharge to the POTW of 25,000 gallons or
more per day, excluding sanitary sewage, non-contact cooling water, and
blowdown from heating or air conditioning systems;
      (2)   Discharges or has a reasonable potential to discharge any toxic
pollutant as defined pursuant to Section 307 of the Act, unless the actual or
potential effect on the POTW is determined by the CWPCS to be insignificant
      (3)   Is found by the CWPCS to have a reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW, or for violating any limit, discharge prohibition,
pretreatment standard or requirement;
      (4)   Is subject to a CPS; or
      (5)   Discharges wastewater, other than sanitary sewage, non-contact
cooling water, and blowdown from heating or air conditioning systems, which
makes up 5% or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of
the POTW.
   SLUDGE. Solids or other residue, either of which are separated from
wastewater and generated by any treatment process, or solids or other residue
directly separated from a production process.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. A discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, including, but
not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility, vehicle or installation from
which there is or may be a discharge to the POTW.
   STATE ACT. Part 31 Water Resources Protection of the Michigan Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451 of 1994, as amended, and
all rules promulgated thereunder.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in, wastewater and which can be recovered by standard laboratory
filtering, using Method 2540 D in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
and Wastewater, current edition.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards or other limits
applicable to the user because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   U.S. EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency or its
successor.
   USER. A person who discharges into the POTW and a municipality or drainage
district whose collection system discharges into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER. Water discharged to the POTW by a user which may or may not
contain other pollutants. This term does not include storm water, surface
runoff, or non-contaminated groundwater and non-contact cooling water.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3735, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-144 MANAGEMENT, STANDARDS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (a)   Management of the POTW. The POTW shall be and remain under the
management, supervision and control of the City. The City may employ a City
Director to administer the facility and may employ such others as the City
deems advisable to carry out the management and operation of the POTW. The City
may make such rules, orders or regulations as deemed advisable and necessary to
assure the management and operation of the POTW, including the establishment of
local limits by rule and established by the City Director and the establishment
of special alternative limits for a user by action of the City Director.
   (b)   Standards, rules and regulations. The standards, rules and regulations
established in or pursuant to this division are for the preservation of and
furtherance of the public health, safety and welfare, and to fulfill the
obligations of the City with respect to State and Federal law and all rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-145 CONNECTION WITH POTW REQUIRED.
   (a)   Where the collection system of the POTW is within 300 feet of the
nearest point of a premises, no privy, septic tank or other private means of
sewage or excreta disposal shall be maintained or used on the premises so
located and all sanitary sewage originating on the premises shall be disposed
of via a connection with the collection system of the POTW.
   (b)   Where the collection system of the POTW is located more than 300 feet
from the nearest point of a premises, sewage or excreta disposal on the
premises shall not be regulated under this division.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-146 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITS.
   (a)   Discharge prohibitions. The provisions in this section are intended
to:
      (1)   Prohibit the discharge to the POTW of wastewater which may cause
pass-through or interference or which could have detrimental effects on the
physical structures or operating personnel of the POTW, or on the general
public or the environment; and
      (2)   Restrict the discharge to the POTW of storm water, groundwater and
non-contact cooling water.
   (b)   Prohibited discharges. No user shall discharge, cause to be
discharged, or allow to be discharged into the POTW any of the following:
      (1)   Pollutants which may or do create a fire or explosion hazard in the
POTW, including, but not limited to, pollutants or wastewater with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C), as determined by a Pensky-Martens closed
cup tester, using the test method specified in ATSM Standard D-93-79 or D-93-
80k (incorporated by reference, see 40 C.F.R. § 260.21) or a Setaflash closed
cup tester, using the test method specified in ATSM Standard D-3278-78
(incorporated by reference, see 40 C.F.R. § 260.21), and pollutants which
exceed 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) at any operation or maintenance
of the point within the POTW;
      (2)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW, in a quantity that may cause acute or chronic health and
safety problems for workers or exceed any applicable occupational health or
safety standard;
      (3)   Pollutants which may or do cause corrosive or abrasive structural
damage to the POTW;
      (4)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which may or do obstruct
flow or cause interference in the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having an instantaneous pH less than 6.0 or greater than
10.5;
      (6)   Any pollutant, including oxygen- demanding pollutants, released in
a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which may or do cause
interference in the POTW;
      (7)   Pollutants which may or do cause:
         a.   Restriction of hydraulic capacity of structures in the POTW;
         b.   Unsafe conditions to personnel in the operation, inspection or
maintenance of the POTW or unsafe conditions to the general public, with
respect to the collection system;
         c.   Exceptional or unreasonably burdensome effort, attention or
expense in the operation or maintenance of the POTW; or
         d.   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
POTW, resulting in interference, but in no case heat such that the temperature
at the discharge to the collection system exceeds 150°F (66°C) or the influent
at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 104°F (40°C);
      (8)   Pollutants which may or do cause pass- through or interference;
      (9)   Any pollutants which exceed, for that user, the limitations set
forth in a categorical pretreatment standard, as adjusted under the combined
wastestream formula in Michigan Rule R 323.2311(7), which may be expressed as
concentration limits, mass limits, or both, as provided in Michigan Rule R
323.2311(5). A categorical pretreatment standard shall be adjusted if 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.15 applies and the criteria of 40 C.F.R. § 403.15(b) and (c) are met
(net/gross calculation);
      (10)   Any liquids, gases or solids which either singly or by interaction
with other substances may or do create a public nuisance;
      (11)   Any pollutant introducing colors not removed in the POTW treatment
process, such as but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (12)   Any unpolluted water, non-contact cooling water, storm water,
groundwater or surface water, unless the City Director gives written permission
to the user for the discharge of such waters based on available hydraulic
capacity and potential impacts on the POTW treatment capability. The scope and
duration of the discharge of the waters shall be determined at the sole
discretion of the City Director;
      (13)   Any radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as such quantities
are defined by applicable State and Federal regulations;
      (14)   Any grease or other pollutants that will become solid or viscous
at a temperature of 140°F (60°C) or below after being discharged into the POTW;
      (15)   Hazardous substances that were not listed or disclosed in the
user’s application for a use permit that:
         a.   May or do cause or contribute to a violation of State or Federal
water quality standards in the receiving waters to which the POTW discharges;
or
         b.   Result in or contribute to a liability of the City under Part 201
of the Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451 of
1994, as amended, or the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA). Nothing in this
subsection determines the percentage share or allocation share amount of a
user’s Part 201 or CERCLA liability.
      (16)   Hazardous substances in quantities exceeding the numerical limit
in a user’s use permit which:
         a.   May or do cause or contribute to a violation of State or Federal
water quality standards in the receiving waters to which the POTW discharges;
or
         b.   Result in or contribute to a liability of the City under Part 201
of the Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Act 451 of
1994, as amended, or the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA). Nothing in this
subsection determines the percentage share or allocation share amount of a
user’s Part 201 or CERCLA liability.
      (17)   Sludge, unless the City Director has determined that it is
amenable to treatment by the POTW and does not otherwise violate any discharge
prohibition; or
      (18)   Any new or used petroleum oil or grease, non-biodegradable cutting
oil, or products of mineral oil origin, in amounts that may or do cause
interference or pass-through.
   (c)   Concentration limits for specific pollutants.
      (1)   Pollutant concentration limits. Discharges made by non-domestic
users having concentrations of specific pollutants greater than the pollutant
concentration limits described in
Table 46-146(c) in the appendix at the end of this chapter are prohibited,
except as regulated under subsection (d) of this section.
      (2)   Measurement of pollutant concentrations.
         a.   The instantaneous concentration limit for a specific pollutant
shall apply to the instantaneous concentration of the pollutant measured by
sampling in accordance with §
46-149(a)(3)a.
         b.   The daily concentration limit for a specific pollutant shall
apply to the daily concentration of the pollutant measured by sampling in
accordance with §
46-149(a)(3)b.
   (d)   Special arrangements. The CWPCS may establish a special arrangement
between the City and a user in a use permit or an order that allows discharges
to the POTW that are otherwise prohibited by this section. A special
arrangement shall not cause the City to violate any NPDES permit provisions.
The special arrangement may include special alternative limits (SALs) that are
greater or less than the discharge limits in subsection (c) of this section. A
special arrangement may also include requirements for best management practices
(BMPs) in addition to, but not in lieu of, any discharge limit. BMPs shall be
established in a use permit if the user is a significant non-domestic user. The
decision to establish a special arrangement shall be made at the sole
discretion of the CWPCS. The special arrangement may be terminated or modified
at will at any time by the City. A special arrangement shall not create any
vested rights or property rights in the user. A special arrangement shall
create no rights to discharge to the POTW that the user would not have had in
the absence of a special arrangement. Provisions relating to termination or
modification of a special arrangement may be more fully set forth in the
special arrangement document. As a condition precedent to the entry into a
special arrangement, the City shall require the user to sign an acknowledgment
and acceptance of the provisions of this subsection. Any special arrangement
may contain provisions for the user to pay a compensatory charge to the City. A
special arrangement shall not allow a discharge that exceeds a categorical
pretreatment standard unless a removal credit or a fundamentally different
factor variance applies to allow the user to exceed the otherwise applicable
categorical pretreatment standard. In such case, the special arrangement shall
not allow a discharge that exceeds the limit allowed by the removal credit or
variance. A violation of the terms of a special arrangement, including any SAL,
BMPs or special pretreatment requirements, shall be a violation of this
division.
      (1)   Procedures for establishing special alternative limits. In
determining a SAL, the CWPCS shall allocate a share of the maximum allowable
industrial loading for the pollutant of concern as set forth in subsection (2)
of this subsection (d) among one or more non-domestic users in amounts and on
terms and conditions deemed appropriate by the CWPCS.
      (2)   Maximum allowable industrial loadings. The total mass of a
pollutant of concern used by or allocated to all non-domestic users, including
mass allocated by the CWPCS in establishing SALs for the pollutant, shall not
exceed in the aggregate for all non-domestic users the maximum allowable
industrial loadings described in
Table 46-146(d)(2) in the appendix at the end of this chapter.
   (e)   Local initiative limits. The City Director may impose limits on a user
for pollutants not specifically listed in
Table 46-146(c) in the appendix at the end of this chapter, which may be in a
use permit or in an order. In determining a local initiative limit (LIL), the
City Director shall consider available data on acceptable POTW pollutant
loading based on POTW design, treatability of the pollutant, the potential for
pass-through or interference, current POTW pollutant loading, the properties of
the pollutant, and other relevant factors deemed appropriate by the City
Director. The City Director may also establish generally applicable LILs by
rulemaking. A generally applicable LIL may be established and shall be
enforceable as a discharge prohibition, provided the City Director first
publishes notice of the proposed LILs in the newspaper in the City with the
largest circulation, provides written notice to users who are known to the City
Director to discharge a significant mass or concentration of the pollutant, and
provides for an opportunity to interested persons to submit written comments.
If significant public comments are received, the City Director shall hold a
public hearing to take additional oral and written comments. After these
procedures are completed, the City Director shall publish the final enforceable
LILs in the same newspaper along with the effective date of the LILs.
   (f)   Categorical pretreatment standards. A user shall comply with all
categorical pretreatment standards and any other pretreatment requirements
established under §§ 307(b), 307(c) or 402(b)(8) of the Act that are applicable
to that user, as adjusted under the combined wastestream formula in Michigan
Rule R 323.2311(7). If a categorical pretreatment standard and another limit
contained in this division or in an applicable State of Michigan pretreatment
requirement regulate the same pollutant, then the more restrictive of them
shall apply. If a user requests that a removal credit be applicable to that
user, then the user shall pay all costs associated with supporting, obtaining,
and administering the removal credit so that the City incurs no costs. It shall
be at the sole discretion of the City whether or not a removal credit shall be
established and how a removal credit shall be allocated.
   (g)   Trucked wastes. No wastes or wastewater shall be discharged by any
user or person into the POTW from a vehicle which transported the waste or
wastewater to the point of discharge. The preceding sentence does not prohibit
a user from trucking wastes or wastewater to the user’s treatment facility.
   (h)   Future conditions. Future conditions imposed on the City by government
agencies with proper jurisdiction may require subsequent amendment of this
chapter by the City. Where Federal- or State-promulgated pretreatment standards
require limits on parameters not covered in this chapter or limits more
stringent than those specified in the chapter, the State or Federal limits
shall have precedence and take effect with respect to the applicable user on
the later of their promulgation date or the date specified for compliance with
such standards.
   (i)   Reserved right of revision. The City reserves the right to establish
by ordinance, rule, order or use permit more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3736, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-147 DILUTION.
   No user shall increase the use of potable or process water or in any other
way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment before discharge to the POTW to achieve compliance with the
standards set forth in this division, except upon prior written approval from
the City Director. Such approval shall be granted at the sole discretion of the
City Director and consistent with Federal and State law.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3737, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-148 INSPECTIONS.
   (a)   Authority of inspectors. Authorized representatives of the City
exhibiting proper credentials and identification shall be permitted at all
reasonable times, and at any time in an emergency, to enter any user’s property
and the property of contract municipalities without delay for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in connection with
the administration and enforcement of this division.
   (b)   Safety rules of user. While on the property of the user, the
authorized representative of the City shall observe all reasonable safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the user that are communicated by the
user to the City representative at the time of entry and during the visit, if
practicable. The authorized representative of the City is not required to
observe such safety rules in an emergency. The user shall advise the City
representative of health and safety hazards and precautionary measures
necessary to protect the health and safety of the City representative while on
the user’s premises. The City Director may order any user to provide written
information regarding such health and safety hazards and precautionary
measures. If required by the user, the City representative intending to enter a
user’s property shall be provided with an escort by the user to accompany the
City representative while on the user’s property. The user shall provide the
escort within a reasonable time after arrival at the user’s property. In the
event of an emergency, or if the user does not provide an escort within a
reasonable time the City representative is not required to wait for such an
escort before proceeding with the entry and other activities on the user’s
property. If the City representative proceeds without such an escort on the
basis of an emergency or on the basis that the user did not provide an escort
within a reasonable time under the circumstances, then the City shall provide
the user with a written explanation of the situation.
   (c)   Other inspection. Inspection by State or Federal representatives
pursuant to law shall not relieve a user from inspection by City
representatives, and inspection by City representatives shall not relieve any
user from compliance with lawful inspection by State and Federal
representatives.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-149 SAMPLING, ANALYSES AND TESTS.
   (a)   Wastewater sampling and analyses.
      (1)   The prohibitions and restrictions in §
46-146, or as set forth in a SAL or LIL (which may be in a use permit), shall
apply at the point where wastewater and pollutants are discharged into the
POTW. Required pretreatment and sampling for analysis of parameters specified
in a use permit, discharge limit, CPS or any discharge prohibition, limitation
or standard shall be effected before such point is reached.
      (2)   All measurements, sampling, tests and analyses of the discharge
shall be determined in accordance with the EPA-approved methods contained in 40
C.F.R. Part 136. In cases where 40 C.F.R. Part 136 procedures are not available
for or do not apply to the pollutant involved, other sources such as Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American
Public Health Association, or the most current methods published by the
American Society for Testing Material (ASTM) or another method accepted by the
City Director may be used.
      (3)   All samples shall be collected at a time and in a manner that
ensures they are representative of the wastewater discharged when the user’s
normal operations are occurring, except when required by the City to be
collected at another time or in another manner.
         a.   Sampling to measure the instantaneous concentration shall be done
by collecting one grab sample.
         b.   Sampling to measure the daily concentration shall be done by
collecting a 24-hour, flow-proportioned composite sample, except that a minimum
of four grab samples shall be collected in lieu of a 24-hour, flow-proportioned
composite sample for pH, cyanide, total phenols, hexane-extractable material,
sulfide and volatile organic compounds. If it is not feasible to obtain a flow-
proportioned composite sample, a time-proportioned composite sample or a
minimum of four grab samples may be used in lieu of the flow-proportioned
composite sample if the user demonstrates to the City Director that a
representative sample will be obtained. Samples shall be collected during a
single 24-hour period.
   (b)   Significant non-domestic user sampling and analyses. Unless otherwise
modified by a use permit, the following shall apply.
      (1)   Subject to events beyond the control of the user, significant non-
domestic users shall, at their expense, sample their discharge by flow-
proportioned composite sampling. Samples must be obtained periodically each
day, whenever the significant non- domestic user is discharging. The flow-
proportioned composite sampler shall be programmed for a minimum of 100
sampling events per day based on the average permitted flow per day. Dilution
is prohibited (see §
46-147). The significant non-domestic user shall submit a written description
of the specific sampling method, sampling equipment, and sampling location to
the City Director and obtain the approval of the City Director. Alternately, at
the discretion of the City Director, users may provide a tour of sampling
locations and a demonstration of sampling equipment and specific sampling
methods to City Enforcement Officer in order to obtain approval. For
significant non-domestic users with a new source, this approval shall be
obtained prior to commencement of the discharge. Significant non-domestic users
discharging as of the effective date of this section shall make application
within 90 days of the effective date.
      (2)   The City may direct a significant non- domestic user to not perform
self-monitoring, in which case the City may obtain samples of that user’s
discharge for analysis using composite time-proportioned or flow-proportioned
sampling (except for pH and for fat, oil and grease which shall be grab
samples) or may contract with an independent firm for such sampling. Samples
may be obtained by the City each day, whenever the user is discharging. The
flow-proportioned composite sampler shall be programmed for a minimum of 100
sampling events per day based on the average permitted flow per day. Dilution
is prohibited (see §
46-147). The significant non- domestic user shall pay a fee to the City to
fully reimburse the City for such sampling and analysis, including
administrative and overhead costs. If the City contracts with an independent
firm for the sampling, the significant non-domestic user shall fully reimburse
the City for amounts paid by the City to the firm.
      (3)   The significant non-domestic user shall provide equipment at its
facility to properly preserve and store up to 35 consecutive daily samples,
whether or not that user is performing the sampling.
      (4)   Samples shall be preserved and stored at the significant non-
domestic user’s facility for every day on which a discharge occurs. At least
ten daily samples shall be analyzed each calendar month. Daily samples for
alternate days on which a discharge occurs shall be analyzed unless the City
specifies to the significant non-domestic user, no later than the fifth day
after the end of the calendar month, which days ten of the samples must be
analyzed for that calendar month. If the significant non-domestic user
discharges for less than ten days in a calendar month, then the number of
samples shall equal the number of days on which there is a discharge and all
such samples shall be analyzed. Analyses shall be performed for parameters
specified in the significant non-domestic user’s use permit.
      (5)   Samples shall be analyzed at the sole cost of the significant non-
domestic user. If a significant non-domestic user does its own sampling or
causes its samples to be taken, then the user shall submit the samples to a
laboratory (which may be the significant non-domestic user’s own laboratory)
approved by the City for analysis. If the City does not approve the user’s
chosen laboratory, the City shall provide the user with a written explanation
why the City did not approve the laboratory. If the significant non-domestic
user utilizes its own laboratory, that significant non-domestic user shall send
a split sample to an independent laboratory at least quarterly as a quality
control check. If a significant non-domestic user does its own sampling or
analysis, the City may also take and have analyzed daily composites or grabs at
the sole cost of the significant non-domestic user, in which case the City
shall provide a written explanation within a reasonable time to the user why
the City is performing such sampling. If the City takes the samples, the City,
at its discretion, may analyze the samples in its own laboratory or contract
with an independent laboratory for the analysis.
      (6)   The date when a sample is taken, start time, stop time, sample
type, sample location, sampler programming information, persons involved in the
sampling, and any other data specified in advance by the City Director, shall
be recorded by the significant non-domestic user if the significant non-
domestic user is self-monitoring.
      (7)   Flow measurements shall be taken to record the daily discharge
volume. On each sample date, flow measurements shall be taken to record the
daily discharge volume unless that is not feasible. In this case, flow
estimates based on water meter readings may be used if a user demonstrates to
the City Director that a representative estimate will be obtained.
      (8)   All analytical results for the month shall be submitted to the City
by the fifteenth day of the following month if the significant non-domestic
user does self-monitoring. The City shall provide copies of analytical results
to the significant non-domestic user if the City performs the monitoring. If a
significant non-domestic user monitors any pollutant more frequently than
required by the City, using the procedures prescribed in subsection (a) of this
section, the results of the monitoring shall be included in the next
surveillance report or other monitoring report submitted to the City by that
significant non-domestic user.
      (9)   The City shall be provided with splits of any sample taken by a
significant non-domestic user if the City requests a split sample. A
significant non-domestic user shall be provided with splits of any sample taken
by the City if the significant non-domestic user requests a split sample within
seven days after the sample is taken. Split samples shall be provided at the
time the sample is taken, if possible.
      (10)   The significant non-domestic user (which is performing self-
monitoring) or the City (if the significant non-domestic user is not performing
self-monitoring) shall contract with an independent company to maintain, repair
and calibrate the sampling and flow measurement equipment and instruments used
to monitor that significant non-domestic user. Such maintenance, repair and
calibration shall be performed as necessary so that monitoring data is accurate
and representative, but in no event less frequently than twice in a calendar
year at reasonable intervals. The City, in any event, may inspect and test a
significant non-domestic user’s flow meters at reasonable times or at any time
in the case of an emergency.
   (c)   Other users. The City Director may require any other user to install a
suitable control structure and necessary measuring and sampling devices to
facilitate the observation, sampling and measurement of the quantity,
composition and concentrations of discharges to the POTW. Such structure and
devices shall be constructed and installed at the user’s expense in accordance
with plans submitted to the City Director and shall be maintained by the user
as safe and accessible during all reasonable times and to provide accurate and
representative monitoring data. If the user fails to install such a structure
and devices, or maintain them, the City may do so at the expense of the user.
   (d)   Removal of samples and data. The City Director or the City Director’s
authorized representative shall have the right to remove samples of wastewater
and pollutants discharged into the POTW and to make copies of other data and
materials concerning the same. Upon the written request of such user, split
samples will be provided.
   (e)   Authority to require submission of samples. The City Director may
require any user to submit one or more representative samples of the wastewater
discharged, or which the user proposes to discharge, into the POTW.
   (f)   Failure to permit access or removal of samples and other data. In the
event a user refuses to permit access at reasonable times, or at any time in
the event of an emergency, to an authorized City representative or to permit
the representative to obtain, take and remove samples and make copies of other
data pursuant to this section, the City may take any or all of the following
actions:
      (1)   Order the termination of the discharge of wastewater to the POTW;
      (2)   Order the user to permit access within a time certain; or
      (3)   Issue a citation for a violation of this chapter.
   (g)   New installation of pretreatment facilities.
      (1)   Notices. The user or its authorized agent shall notify the City
Director in writing, at least 15 days before the installation of new
pretreatment facilities, of the date it intends to commence operation thereof.
A new pretreatment facility shall not be placed in regular operation until
tests have been conducted by the user to establish that the discharges will be
in compliance with this division.
      (2)   Tests by users. A representative of the City shall be permitted to
witness the tests upon prior written request. The cost of the tests shall be
paid by the user of the facilities.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-150 REPORTING AND NOTICES.
   (a)   Registration required. All non-domestic users shall register with the
City Director by submitting registration forms provided by the City which shall
include information about the identity, location and telephone number of the
user; business and manufacturing activities engaged in by the user; and the
type and amount of materials produced, used or stored which are, or which may
be, discharged to the POTW by the user. In addition, the City Director, by
written order, may require any non-domestic user to provide information in a
questionnaire provided by the City, from time to time, to obtain additional or
current information needed for surveying and evaluating non-domestic users,
implementing pollutant minimization programs, and conducting other actions to
administer this division.
   (b)   Surveillance report required. The City Director, by written order, may
require any non-domestic user to submit periodic reports on forms provided by
the City which shall include information on the quality and quantity of
wastewater and pollutants discharged into the POTW. The report shall include
the volume of wastewater and concentration of pollutants, and be related to
pretreatment standards as shall be required by the City Director. The names of
all person(s) responsible for operating and maintaining any pretreatment
equipment, pretreatment processes, or responsible for wastewater management at
the user’s facilities shall be listed in the report with a brief description of
each person’s duties. The City Director may also require additional information
from such users as to materials or substances which may be discharged to the
POTW.
      (1)   Mandatory surveillance report. The City Director shall notify
forthwith each significant non-domestic user that it is required to file
surveillance reports.
      (2)   Initial surveillance report. Each user that has been notified of
its obligation to file surveillance reports shall file an initial report within
60 days from the date the notice is served upon the user.
      (3)   Monthly surveillance reports. Each user so notified by the City
Director may be required to file monthly surveillance reports by the twenty-
eighth day of the following month for the preceding month.
      (4)   Quarterly surveillance reports. Each user required to submit
quarterly surveillance reports shall submit the same before January 31, April
30, July 31 and October 31 of each year for the quarter ending on the last day
of the preceding month.
      (5)   Semi-annual surveillance reports. Each user required to submit
semi-annual surveillance reports shall submit the same in June and December
each year, for the preceding six calendar months.
      (6)   Annual surveillance reports. Each user required to submit annual
surveillance reports shall submit the same in December each year for the
preceding 12 calendar months.
   (c)   Notice of significant non-domestic user status. All users shall
promptly notify the City at least 180 days in advance of a discharge which may
convert the user into a significant non-domestic user. Where a change in
discharge may convert the user into a significant non-domestic user, such user
shall promptly submit an application for a use permit to the City within ten
days after submitting the notice.
   (d)   Annual significant non-domestic user report. Each significant non-
domestic user shall submit, on a form provided by the City, an annual
significant non-domestic user report. The report shall provide updated
information about the user’s manufacturing and business activities, materials
used or stored, materials which are or may be discharged to the POTW,
pretreatment systems, slug discharge control plans and procedures (if
required), and any other information required under §
46-151(c) in an application for a use permit. Each significant non- domestic
user shall submit the annual significant non-domestic user report by the
fifteenth day of February of each year for the preceding calendar year (January
through December), unless exempted from this requirement, in the use permit or
other writing, by the City Director.
   (e)   Notice of discharge exceedances. All users shall orally report to the
City water pollution control facility within 24 hours of becoming aware of any
discharges, whether intentional or accidental, which are known or reasonably
suspected by the user to violate any prohibition or exceed any limit
established in this division, in a use permit, in a special agreement, in a
CPS, or in any other applicable law or regulation. The user shall, if the
exceedance was based on an analyzed sample, re-sample and analyze the discharge
and submit the results to the City as soon as possible, but no later than 30
days after becoming aware of the discharge. Such oral notice shall be given in
advance whenever possible and shall contain information regarding the volume,
duration, constituents, cause, loading and concentrations, actions taken or to
be taken to prevent future exceedances, and such other available information as
may be necessary to determine what impact the discharge may have on the POTW.
The user shall provide a written follow-up notice within five days of the oral
notice that contains the same information provided orally and all other
relevant information.
   (f)   Posting of use permit and notice of exceedance information. All non-
domestic users and any user that uses or stores substances which potentially
could be discharged to the POTW in concentrations which exceed any discharge
prohibition in §
46-146 shall post a clearly legible set of instructions in the area where the
user manages wastewater so that the report and notice requirements of this
section are made known and are available to the user’s employees. Such users
shall also post the user’s use permit along with these instructions if the user
holds a use permit. Such users shall instruct their employees who have
wastewater responsibilities on the reporting and notice requirements of this
section.
   (g)   Slug discharges. The City Director may, by written notice to a user,
require that the user prepare and implement a slug discharge control plan. If a
user has a use permit, the slug discharge control plan requirement shall be
included in it. Such plan shall be submitted to the City Director for approval
as specified in the written notice. At least once every two years the City
shall evaluate significant non-domestic users that do not have a slug discharge
control plan to determine whether or not the City will require a plan from such
significant non-domestic users. The plan shall contain at least the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   A description of stored materials;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the City Director of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §
46-146 with procedures for follow-up written notification within five days; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impacts from accidental spills,
including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site run-off,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and measures and
equipment for emergency response.
   (h)   Notification regarding wastes which are otherwise hazardous.
      (1)   Any user that discharges to the POTW any substance which, if
disposed of other than by discharge to the POTW, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 C.F.R. Pt. 261 or under the rules promulgated under the Michigan
Hazardous Waste Management Act, Part 111 of the Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act (“Michigan Rules”) shall notify the City Director,
the U.S. EPA Region V Waste Management Division Director, and the Chief of the
Waste Management Division of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
of such discharge. The notice shall be given 180 days after the discharge first
occurs. The notice shall be in writing and shall include the name of the
hazardous waste set forth in 40 C.F.R. Pt. 261 or the Michigan Rules, the
hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch or other).
If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month
to the POTW, the notice shall also contain the following information to the
extent the information is known and readily available to the user:
         a.   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
         b.   An estimation of the mass and concentration of the constituents
in the discharge during that calendar month; and
         c.   An estimation of the mass of constituents expected to be
discharged during the following 12 months.
      (2)   Notification under this subsection must be submitted for each
hazardous substance discharged, but is not required for pollutants already
reported under self-monitoring by users under categorical pretreatment
standards (CPS) reporting requirements. A user is exempt from notification
under this subsection during a calendar month in which the user discharges no
more than 15 kilograms of hazardous wastes unless the wastes are acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.30(d) and § 261.33(e). Where a
new regulation first defines a substance as a hazardous waste, notification
under this subsection shall be given within 90 days of the effective date of
such regulation. In any notice submitted under this subsection, the user shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree the user has determined to be
economically practical.
   (i)   Reports by the City Director regarding users affected by CPS. The City
Director shall notify all users whom the City Director knows might be subject
to CPS of that fact.
   (j)   Reports by users regarding CPS. Within 180 days after the effective
date of a CPS or 180 days after the final administrative decision made upon a
category determination submission under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is
later, existing users subject to such CPS which currently discharge or are
scheduled to discharge into the POTW shall submit reports to the City Director
required by Michigan Rule R 323.2310, as amended. At least 90 days prior to
commencement of discharge, new sources and non-domestic users that become
subject to a CPS subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable CPS shall
submit the reports to the City Director required by Michigan Rule R 323.2310,
as amended, along with a description of the method of pretreatment the user
intends to use. Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable CPS or, in the case of a new source, following commencement of the
discharge into the POTW, any user subject to CPS shall submit the reports to
the City Director required by Michigan Rule R 323.2310, as amended. In
addition, any user subject to CPS, after the compliance date of such CPS, or,
in the case of a new source, after commencement of the discharge into the POTW,
shall submit the periodic reports to the City Director required by Michigan
Rule R 323.2310, as amended.
   (k)   Radioactive materials notice. Users whose discharge contains or could
contain radioactive materials shall notify the City Director of that fact as
soon as possible after becoming aware of it.
   (l)   Reports by user of slug or problem discharges. A non-domestic user
shall immediately notify the City after obtaining knowledge that such user has
discharged or will discharge wastewater which could cause interference or pass-
through in the POTW or which is a slug discharge. Such notice shall be oral and
shall be followed by a written notice within five days. The written notice
shall describe measures which the user will take to prevent such discharges.
   (m)   Reports by users not subject to CPS. Significant non-domestic users
that are not subject to CPS shall submit a written report to the City by
January 31 and July 31 of each year for the preceding six-month period or more
frequently as may be required by the City in a use permit. If required to be
submitted more frequently, the date by which the report is required to be
submitted shall not be less than 28 days following the end of the reporting
period stipulated in the use permit. The report shall contain a description of
the nature and concentration of the pollutants in the discharge and the volume
of the discharge based on sampling and analyses for pollutants performed at a
frequency specified by the City. In cases where a user is required by a special
arrangement with the City established under §
46-146(d) to implement best management practices, the user shall submit
documentation to determine the compliance status of the user. Sampling and
analytical techniques shall be those described in Michigan Rule R 323.2310(7).
The City may elect to perform the sampling and analyses in lieu of the
significant non-domestic user, at the sole cost of the significant non-domestic
user. If the City collects all of the information for the reports, the
significant non-domestic user shall not be required to prepare and submit the
report under this subsection.
   (n)   Notice of changed discharge. A non- domestic user shall notify the
City at least 180 days in advance of any anticipated substantial change in the
volume of or in the type or amount of pollutants in its discharge to the POTW.
The notice shall be in writing. For purposes of this notice, a substantial
change in the discharge to the POTW includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The initial discharge of any unpolluted water, non-contact cooling
water, storm water, surface water, or groundwater, including any groundwater
purged for remedial action and groundwater that infiltrates into the POTW;
      (2)   An increase or decrease in volume of 20% or more;
      (3)   The discharge of pollutants not previously disclosed to the City;
      (4)   A change in the amount or type of listed or characteristic
hazardous waste discharged for which the non-domestic user has submitted a
notification to the City under subsection (h) of this section;
      (5)   An increase in the amount of any pollutants discharged which may
result in a violation of §
46-146 or of any order or use permit applicable to the non-domestic user; or
      (6)   Any changes at the user’s facility affecting potential for a slug
discharge.
   (o)   Signature and certification for reports.
      (1)   The person signing the reports, notices, questionnaires and
registration in this section shall make the following certification in the
report:
         “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fines
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (2)   Before any person signing any report, notice, or registration may
submit the same to the City, the user shall inform the City in writing and with
particularity how the individual meets the criteria for persons who are
eligible to do so under Michigan Rule R 323.2310(11).
   (p)   Maintenance of records. Any user subject to the discharge monitoring
or reporting requirements in this division, including reports under Michigan
Rule R 323.2310, as amended, shall maintain copies of all reports, information
records and all other information pertaining to those reports and to discharge
monitoring or best management practices. Such reports, records and information
shall be retained by such user, and by the City if such documents have been
submitted to the City, for at least three years. This period shall be extended
during the course of any unresolved litigation regarding the user or the POTW
pretreatment program or when requested by the City Director, the State Director
or U.S. EPA. All users who have records regarding their generation, treatment,
storage or disposal of hazardous waste or solid waste shall maintain the
records for such period and make them available to the City for inspection and
copying, subject to the provisions of §
46-152. The terms “hazardous waste” and “solid waste” shall have the same
definition as provided in the Michigan Hazardous Waste Management Act, as
amended, and rules promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3738, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-151 USE PERMITS.
   (a)   Use permit required. All significant non- domestic users, and any
other user requested by the City Director, must have a use permit to discharge
to the POTW.
      (1)   With respect to discharge limits, discharge prohibitions, sampling
and analyses, a user with a use permit prior to the effective date of these
amendments shall be regulated by the terms of that use permit until the earlier
of:
         a.   The issuance of a use permit under this amended chapter;
         b.   The modification by the City of the use permit after the
effective date of this amended chapter; or
         c.   Twelve months after the effective date of these amendments.
      (2)   After the occurrence of the earlier of those events, the provisions
of this amended chapter fully apply to discharge limits, discharge
prohibitions, sampling and analyses with respect to that user.
   (b)   Use permit application required. Applications for use permits shall be
submitted to the City as follows.
      (1)   Any person or user who will in the future become a significant non-
domestic user shall submit an application at least 180 days before the date
that person or user expects to become a significant non-domestic user.
      (2)   Any existing significant non-domestic user with a user permit prior
to the effective date of this amended chapter shall submit an application not
more than 180 days after the effective date of this amended chapter.
      (3)   Additionally, after having been directed to apply for a use permit
by the City Director, a user shall submit an application for a use permit as
follows.
         a.   Any user suspected by the City Director of being a significant
non-domestic user shall submit an application not more than 30 days after
having been ordered to do so by the City Director.
         b.   Any user who has been ordered by the City Director to obtain a
use permit shall submit an application not more than 30 days after having been
ordered to do so by the City Director.
      (4)   The City Director may extend the period allowed herein for
submitting an application for a use permit, provided that the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the City Director that more time will be
required for completing the application, due to extraordinary circumstances.
The City Director may authorize a user to discharge to the POTW while the
user’s permit application is pending under terms and conditions specified in
the authorization.
   (c)   Use permit application contents.
      (1)   A use permit application shall consist of the following:
         a.   Name, address and location of the user;
         b.   The type of business entity of the user, whether a corporation,
partnership, sole proprietorship or other form of business organization;
         c.   The name of the person(s) responsible for discharges by the user;
         d.   Standard industrial classification (SIC) number according to the
Standard Industrial Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         e.   Discharge pollutants and characteristics including, but not
limited to, toxic pollutants as determined by bona fide chemical and biological
analyses. Sampling and analyses shall be performed in accordance with
procedures established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and
contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended, or procedures approved by the City
Director if no Part 136 procedure exists for the pollutant;
         f.   Time and duration of discharges;
         g.   Average daily and instantaneous peak discharge flow rates in
gallons per day, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any (all
flows shall be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by the
City Director);
         h.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, process
flow diagrams, and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection
manholes, sampling chambers and any other equipment directly or indirectly
related to a user’s actual or potential discharge (information on such other
equipment need only be submitted by the user as a supplement to the use permit
application and only if requested by the City);
         i.   Information regarding activities, facilities and plant processes
on the premises indicating all materials which are or may be discharged to the
POTW intentionally or unintentionally;
         j.   Nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge
limited by this division, together with a statement regarding whether or not
compliance is being achieved with this division on a consistent basis and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance activities and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the user to comply with this division;
         k.   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production, and any and all information regarding the composition,
characteristics and properties of each product as needed by the City for
determining the potential impact of any discharge of a product to the POTW,
provided by the user in either Material Safety Data Sheets or other manner
approved by the City;
         l.   Type and amount of raw materials utilized (average and maximum
per day or other relevant time period) and any and all information regarding
the composition, characteristics and properties of the raw materials as needed
by the City for determining the potential impact of any discharge of a raw
material to the POTW, provided by the user in either Material Safety Data
Sheets or other manner approved by the City;
         m.   A list of all other environmental permits and a copy of each such
permit held by the user applicable to the site to which the use permit applies
if the permitted process, equipment or activity involves any liquid waste or
wastewater;
         n.   The signature and certification of the person described in §
46-150(o); and
         o.   Such other information as the City Director may request
pertaining to possible discharges to the POTW.
      (2)   In the case of new sources, the applicant shall supply estimated
expected information to the extent actual data is not available. New sources
who will be significant non-domestic users shall submit a complete permit
application at least 90 days before the commencement of its discharge to the
POTW.
   (d)   Use permit issuance. The City Director shall evaluate the application
and data furnished by the user and may require additional information from the
user to complete the application. The City Director shall determine whether the
applicant is a significant non- domestic user. If not, the City Director shall
so notify the applicant. For a significant non-domestic user, the City Director
shall issue or deny a use permit based on and subject to the terms and
conditions provided in this division and other applicable law. The City
Director may, but is not required to, provide the user with a draft of the use
permit prior to taking action to issue or deny a use permit to give the user an
opportunity to provide the City with comments on the draft use permit. The City
Director shall issue or deny a use permit within six months after receipt of a
complete application from the user. If the City Director denies a use permit,
the denial shall be in writing and shall specify reasons for the denial. The
City Director may issue an individual use permit to any specific significant
non-domestic user, or the City Director may establish a general use permit for
any specific group of significant non-domestic users or other users, if deemed
appropriate, where allowed under current State and Federal law. If the City
Director determines that the user is not a significant non-domestic user, the
City Director may still require a use permit or that the user be subject to the
terms of a general use permit.
   (e)   Use permit term. A use permit shall be issued for a term not to exceed
five years. The City Director may issue the use permit for a shorter period. A
permittee shall apply for reissuance of a use permit by submitting a complete
application at least 180 days before the expiration of the existing use permit.
If application for renewal is timely submitted, the existing use permit shall
continue until final action is taken by the City Director on the application
for renewal. Otherwise, the existing use permit shall expire on its stated
expiration date and the permittee shall cease its discharge.
   (f)   Use permit modifications.
      (1)   The City Director shall have the right to modify any use permit
issued hereunder in order to:
         a.   Assure compliance by the POTW with applicable laws and the POTW
NPDES permit;
         b.   Account for changes in discharges by the user;
         c.   Account for new information concerning the pollutants discharged
by the user;
         d.   Reflect changes in Federal or State laws and regulations or in
City ordinances;
         e.   Accommodate operational changes at the POTW that, as determined
by the City Director, require revision of the use permit;
         f.   Modify or terminate any special arrangement contained in a use
permit; or
         g.   Assure compliance by the user with this division and other
applicable laws.
      (2)   The user shall be informed of any modifications in the use permit
at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the modification, unless a
shorter time is necessary to meet applicable law or to protect human health,
the environment or the POTW.
   (g)   Use permit conditions. Use permits may specify the following but shall
contain all items required by Michigan Rule R 323.2306(a)(III):
      (1)   Schedule of fees and charges;
      (2)   Discharge limits and best management practices;
      (3)   Limits on average volume and maximum volume and time of discharge
and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Requirements for installation and operation of discharge flow
monitors and sampling devices;
      (6)   Requirements for preparing and implementing a slug discharge plan;
      (7)   Requirements for preparing and implementing a pretreatment plan;
      (8)   Special arrangements and conditions as the City Director may
require under particular circumstances for a given discharge, including self-
monitoring sampling locations, frequency of sampling; number, types and
standards for tests; reporting, notification and recordkeeping; parameters
required to be sampled and analyzed; and other provisions regarding sampling;
      (9)   Compliance schedules;
      (10)   Requirements for submission of special technical reports or
discharge reports where different from those prescribed by this division;
      (11)   Requirements for notification to the City of a discharge which
exceeds a limit in the use permit or significant changes in the discharge;
      (12)   Statement of duration of permit, not to exceed five years;
      (13)   Statement of non-transferability and non-assignability of permit;
      (14)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of discharge limitations, pretreatment requirements and compliance schedules;
and
      (15)   Other terms, statements or conditions, as determined by the City
Director, that are necessary to assure compliance with this division and other
applicable laws.
   (h)   Use permit revocation.
      (1)   The City Director may revoke a use permit during its term or deny a
use permit renewal if:
         a.   The permittee has failed to comply with any condition of the use
permit;
         b.   The permittee fails, in the use permit application or during the
use permit issuance process, to disclose fully all relevant facts to the City,
or the permittee misrepresents any relevant fact at any time to the City;
         c.   The City Director determines that the permitted discharge
endangers human health, the environment or the POTW, and the threat can only be
abated by revocation or denial of the use permit;
         d.   A change in any condition that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the discharge;
         e.   The permittee is in default, after having received written notice
of such default, in the payment of fees or other amounts owed to the City
related to wastewater matters; or
         f.   Noncompliance by the permittee with any provision of this
division.
      (2)   Upon revocation or denial of its use permit, a user shall
immediately terminate its discharge to the POTW.
   (i)   Compliance with use permit. A user shall comply with all of the
provisions of its use permit. A violation of any provision of a use permit is a
violation of this division, subject to the penalty, damage, compensatory charge
and other enforcement provisions of this division.
   (j)   Limitations of use permit transfer. Use permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation at a specific location and are not
assignable to another user or transferable to any other location without prior
written approval of the City Director.
      (1)   The City Director shall approve a use permit transfer and make the
necessary minor modifications to the use permit to show the transferee as the
permittee, if the transferor demonstrates to the City the following conditions
exist:
         a.   The transferor has not violated any provision on the use permit
or of this division during the six-month period preceding the date of the
transfer;
         b.   As of the date of the transfer, there are no unpaid charges or
fees due to the City from the transferor related to use of the POTW;
         c.   The application for the use permit filed by the transferor
remains the same with respect to the discharge, facilities and activities of
the transferee, except as to the identity of the discharger; and
         d.   The transferor provides written evidence to the City Director
that a copy of the use permit has been provided to the transferee.
      (2)   If these conditions are not met, then no transfer shall occur and a
new use permit is required.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3738, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-152 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   The following confidentiality provisions shall apply.
   (a)   All information and data submitted to the City relating to matters
regulated in this division are presumed not to be confidential.
   (b)   Information submitted pursuant to this division which the user deems
confidential shall be clearly marked on each page as to the portion or portions
considered confidential and accompanied by a written explanation why the user
considers the information confidential. Simply marking a page “confidential”
imposes no obligation on the City to keep the information confidential.
   (c)   Information furnished to the City on the volume or characteristics of
wastewater or pollutants discharged or proposed to be discharged into the POTW
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction. Information that discloses trade secrets or secret processes and
is clearly marked as such, shall not be made available for inspection by the
public. Such information shall be made available to governmental agencies, on
written request, for uses related to this chapter, the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit and the pretreatment programs.
However, all such information shall be available for use by the State, any
State agency or the City in judicial review or any other enforcement
proceedings involving the user furnishing the information. The City shall
notify any user, who has requested and is entitled to confidentiality, when the
City has sent such confidential information to another governmental agency.
   (d)   Where a user has mass-based limits as allowed by certain CPS on a
production basis, the production data necessary to determine compliance must
also be provided by the user to the City and be available to the public. Where
application of the combined waste stream formula is necessary to apply
categorical pretreatment standards to a user, the flow measurements and other
data used in the calculation must be provided by the user to the City and be
available to the public.
   (f)   Observations made by City inspectors are subject to the
confidentiality provisions of this section, if the user specifies in writing to
the City the observations made by the City inspector for which the user seeks
confidentiality.
   (g)   If a member of the public requests information which the user has
marked “confidential” and for which the user has submitted a written
explanation concerning its confidentiality, the City shall notify the user of
the request and of the City’s intention to release or not to release the
information to the requestor.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-153 PRETREATMENT.
   (a)   Pretreatment plan. The City Director may require, by an order or a use
permit, any user to prepare and implement a pretreatment plan. The plan shall
be for complying with §
46-146 through the reduction of the amount of pollutants, elimination of
pollutants or alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater
prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants
into the POTW. The reduction, elimination or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological wastewater treatment processes, process
changes (such as pollution prevention) or by means other than treatment or
process changes (such as BMPs), except for the use of dilution, unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (1)   Pretreatment plan approval. The pretreatment plan shall be
submitted to the City Director for approval within the period specified in the
order or use permit and before implementation of the plan. The plan shall be
prepared in accordance with good engineering practices and include any and all
measures necessary for controlling the amount or nature of wastewater
pollutants, discharge monitoring, periodic reporting, and other actions and
procedures required by the City Director. In evaluating the plan, the City
Director may consider the significance of potential pollutant sources, the
economic and technical feasibility of identifying, detecting, quantifying and
controlling them, the practicable minimum and other relevant criteria.
      (2)   Enforcement held in abeyance. The City Director may withhold
enforcement action regarding a discharge of PCB or mercury if a user is
responsibly preparing or implementing a pretreatment plan for reaching a
practicable minimum and its discharge is not causing or contributing to
interference or pass-through. Such a decision shall be made at the sole
discretion of the City Director.
      (3)   Compliance schedule. Where applicable and appropriate, the
pretreatment plan shall include a compliance schedule, which shall consist of
one or more actions, including timetables for an action or a sequence of
actions leading to compliance with a pretreatment standard or other limitation,
prohibition or standard. The following steps or phases shall be included in the
compliance schedule, where applicable and appropriate:
         a.   Retention of a qualified consultant;
         b.   Completion of any engineering or scientific investigations or
surveys deemed necessary;
         c.   Preparation and submission of a preliminary plan to achieve
pretreatment;
         d.   Preparation of plans and specifications, working drawings, or
other engineering or architectural documents that may be necessary to effect
pretreatment;
         e.   Establishment of a date to let any contract necessary for any
construction;
         f.   Establishment of completion dates for any construction necessary;
         g.   Establishment of a date to accomplish the pretreatment pursuant
to the order or use permit; and
         h.   Establishment of separate timetables for a phase or unit in the
event a phase or unit of construction or implementation may be effected
independently of another phase or unit.
      (4)   Amendment. The order or use permit shall be subject to amendment or
revocation by the City, provided that notice of such action is served upon the
user in the same manner as in the original order or use permit and subject to
the same procedure for review and appeal.
   (b)   Categorical pretreatment standards (CPS).
      (1)   Inclusion in standard. If a CPS is promulgated for a subcategory
under which a user believes itself to be included, the user or the City
Director may request from the MDEQ within 60 days after the promulgation date a
written determination of whether the user does or does not fall within that
particular subcategory. Such request shall be made and reviewed in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Michigan Rule R 323.2311, as amended. If an
existing user adds or changes a process or operation that may be included in a
subcategory, the user shall request the certification before commencing to
discharge from the added or changed process or operation. A new source shall
request the determination before commencing to discharge. If the City requests
the determination, then the City shall notify the affected user of the
submission and the user may provide written comments to the MDEQ within 30 days
after notification is sent.
      (2)   Compliance date. A user to which a promulgated CPS applies shall
achieve compliance with such standard in accordance with and within the time
period provided for in Michigan Rule R 323.2311, as amended.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3740, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-154 SPILL PREVENTION/ REMEDIATION REQUIRED.
   (a)   Each user or person that uses or stores liquid material at its
facilities shall, at its expense:
      (1)   Provide a storage or use area at its facilities which is capable of
containing the liquid material so that liquid material cannot escape therefrom
by gravity through private sewers, underground percolation and infiltration, or
otherwise into the POTW in an amount which would result in a prohibited
discharge to the POTW; and
      (2)   Establish and follow procedures for preventing, managing and
remediating accidental spills, leaks or escapes of liquids.
   (b)   The City Director may order the user or person to:
      (1)   Conduct an investigation to determine if any known or suspected
spill, leak or escape of liquid materials is being discharged, or has the
potential for being discharged, to the POTW and to submit a written report on
the findings of the investigation to the City, including all analytical and
hydrogeological data; and
      (2)   Take interim measures for immediate or emergency containment and
remediation, for preventing, reducing, abating or mitigating the effect(s) of a
discharge of liquid material to the POTW.
   (c)   A significant non-domestic user shall submit to the City Director a
written description of its containment facilities and procedures within 30 days
after being requested to do so by the City Director.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-155 INTERCEPTORS AND SEPARATORS.
   An interceptor or separator for removing floating or suspended hexane-
extractable material or other viscous or dense substances or articles from
wastewater, by physical separation, prior to discharging the wastewater into
the POTW shall be installed, used and maintained in accordance with Michigan
Rule R 408.30701, as amended.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3739, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-156 COMPENSATORY CHARGES.
   (a)   Compensatory charges. The City may assess one or more compensatory
charges to recover any additional expense to the City resulting from providing
service to any user responsible for any of the following:
      (1)   Violating any limit or discharge prohibition established by §
46-146 where no order or use permit has been issued to that user; or
      (2)   Violating the limits or discharge prohibitions contained in an
order, SAL or use permit applicable to that user.
   (b)   Applicability of compensatory charges. Any user shall be liable for
one or more compensatory charge to reimburse the POTW for any costs, damages or
expenses (direct or indirect) that the City may incur or that may be imposed on
the City in handling, treating and responding to an unlawful discharge where
the exceedance of the limits contained in this division, an order, SAL or user
permit causes or contributes to the costs, damages or expenses.
   (c)   Amount of compensatory charges. The City Director shall calculate the
amount of the compensatory charges to be assessed against the user.
   (d)   Criteria for assessing compensatory charges. The amount of
compensatory charges shall be based upon the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   The volume of the discharge;
      (2)   The length of time the discharge occurred;
      (3)   The composition of the discharge;
      (4)   The nature, extent and degree of success the POTW may achieve in
minimizing or mitigating the effect of the discharge;
      (5)   The toxicity, degradability, treatability and dispersal
characteristics of the discharges;
      (6)   Costs incurred by the City to treat the discharges, including
operation and maintenance, capital costs, replacement costs, sampling and
analytical costs, sludge handling and disposal costs, and administrative costs;
      (7)   Costs incurred by the City in investigating the user’s violation
and enforcing this division or an order or use permit applicable to the user;
      (8)   Fines and penalties imposed on the City. The compensatory charges
may also include the City’s costs of defense (including actual attorney fees,
consultant fees, and sampling and analytical fees) of actions brought or
threatened to be brought against the City by the State or Federal government or
third parties;
      (9)   Any damages to the POTW or damages imposed upon the City by the
State or Federal government or third parties; and
      (10)   Such other factors as the City Director deems appropriate under
the circumstances.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-157 FEES.
   (a)   Reimbursement to the City. Users shall reimburse the City for its
costs arising from implementing, administering and enforcing this division, as
follows.
      (1)   Use permit fees. Users shall pay a use permit application or
reapplication fee, a use permit renewal fee, and a use permit transfer fee (in
the event of a transfer of the use permit). Fees shall be established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council and kept on file by the City Clerk.
In addition to these fees, users shall reimburse the City for any and all other
expenses the City incurs arising from:
         a.   Processing incomplete, incorrect or otherwise unacceptable use
permit applications;
         b.   Establishing special alternative limits or special arrangements,
or local initiative limits;
         c.   Sampling and analyzing discharges to the POTW and inspecting
users;
         d.   Enforcing use permits;
         e.   Producing and mailing copies of use permits;
         f.   Auditing and evaluating user self-monitoring data; and
         g.   Other activities in connection with issuing, administering,
enforcing and transferring use permits.
      (2)   Other fees. The City Director may establish other fees by use
permit or order, as required for recovering the cost of implementing,
administering and enforcing this division.
   (b)   Publication of generally applicable fees. Before imposing generally
applicable fees, the City shall publish a notice describing the fees in the
newspaper with the largest circulation in the City. The City shall not be
required to publish any notice regarding fees for which the amount is
determined for a specific user based on case-specific facts or regarding the
use permit application or renewal application fee, use permit issuance fee, use
permit renewal fee, or the use permit transfer fee as set forth in subsection
(a) of this section.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-158 POWERS OF THE CITY DIRECTOR.
   The City Director is hereby empowered to, either directly or through others:
   (a)   Supervise the implementation of this division;
   (b)   Establish and promulgate concentration limits and maximum allowable
industrial loadings for specific pollutants, as listed in Tables 46-146(c) and
46-146(d)(2) in the appendix at the end of this chapter, according to the rule-
making procedure of Section
1-801 of the City Charter;
   (c)   Institute actions against all users violating this division, including
judicial proceedings to enjoin, abate and prosecute violations of this
division;
   (d)   Review pretreatment plans;
   (e)   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed or altered pretreatment equipment to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this division;
   (f)   Investigate complaints of violations of this division; make
inspections and observations of discharges; and record the investigations,
complaints, inspections and observations;
   (g)   Issue orders requiring compliance with this division;
   (h)   Determine and assess civil administrative penalties for violations of
this division;
   (i)   Determine compensatory charges;
   (j)   Recommend to the Chief Legal Officer of the City the institution of
judicial proceedings to compel compliance with the provisions of this division
or any determination or order which may be promulgated or issued pursuant to
this division;
   (k)   Deny permits for discharges that do not meet the requirements of this
chapter or that would cause the City to violate its NPDES permit; and set
conditions on new, increased or changed discharges to the POTW; and
   (l)   Perform other actions necessary or advisable for the management and
operation of the POTW and the enforcement of this division and other applicable
laws and regulations.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3637, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 46-159 ORDERS.
   (a)   Issuance of orders. Whenever the City Director determines that any
user has violated or is in danger of violating this division or other
applicable laws or regulations which the City is authorized to enforce, the
City Director may order the user to take action or refrain from certain actions
as appropriate under the circumstances.
   (b)   Types of orders. The following orders may be issued by the City
Director:
      (1)   Immediate cease and desist. An order to immediately cease and
desist from discharging any wastewater or pollutant which presents or may
present imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or the environment or which could cause interference or pass-through.
The order shall be final and in effect upon issuance;
      (2)   Cease discharge within a time certain. The City Director may issue
an order to cease discharge by a certain time and date. The order may also
contain such conditions as deemed appropriate by the City Director. Non-payment
of use permit fees and noncompliance with any term of a use permit are examples
of sufficient cause for an order to cease discharge within a time certain; and
      (3)   Order to perform. An order requiring a user subject to this
division to perform any required action required or to comply with any
provision of this division, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Submit samples;
         b.   Install sampling or monitoring equipment;
         c.   Submit reports;
         d.   Allow access for inspection, sampling, tests, monitoring and
investigations;
         e.   Install, operate and maintain pretreatment equipment;
         f.   Reduce or eliminate a discharge or pollutants in a discharge or a
characteristic of a discharge;
         g.   Pay use permit fees; or
         h.   Pay a compensatory charge.
   (c)   Content of orders. Any order issued by the City Director shall
generally state the factual basis and reasons for its issuance, the required
action, and the time within which the action shall be taken. No such order
shall be deemed insufficient for inconsequential errors and omissions in the
facts or reasons for the order. If any user deems the information in the order
insufficient, it may request additional information. Multiple orders may be
issued simultaneously, separately, or in combination as a single order by the
City Director with respect to a single user.
   (d)   Consent orders. A user and the City may enter into an order by consent
and such order is enforceable by the City in the same manner as any other
order.
   (e)   Disconnection. The City Director may physically disconnect a user from
the POTW if the user violates any provision of an order, including an immediate
cease and desist order.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-160 NOTICES OF VIOLATION.
   (a)   Issuance of notice of violation. The City Director may issue a notice
of violation with or without an order against any user deemed to be in
violation or in danger of violating this division, a permit, or other
applicable laws or regulations which the City is authorized to enforce.
   (b)   Service. The notice of violation or the order shall be served upon the
user either by personal delivery, first class mail addressed to the user,
electronic mail, telecopy, telephone or other means, including orally. If
service is made orally, by telephone or by electronic mail, a follow-up
hardcopy notice shall be sent by the City Director.
   (c)   Content of notice of violation. The notice of violation shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   Date of issuance;
      (2)   Date(s), time(s) and place(s) of the violation; the nature of the
violation; the substances discharged; and the volume of the discharge, to the
extent that such information is known and applicable;
      (3)   Reference to the pertinent section of this division, permit or
other law or regulation under which the violation is charged;
      (4)   Reference to the pertinent law establishing penalties for the
violation;
      (5)   Potential penalties, fines and compensatory charges; and
      (6)   The right of the alleged violator to present to the City Director
written explanations, defenses, information or other materials in answer to the
notice of violation.
   (d)   Notice to municipality. Any notice of violation issued pursuant to
this section upon any user within the corporate limits of any contract
municipality shall be served upon the municipality in the manner provided in
subsection (b) of this section, and the municipality shall be given notice,
also in the manner provided in subsection (b) of this section, of all informal
conferences conducted pursuant to the notice of violation and the municipality
may participate as an amicus curiae.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-161 INFORMAL CONFERENCE.
   (a)   Informal conference. An informal conference with the City Water
Pollution Control Supervisor (CWPCS) may be requested in writing within 20 days
by any user aggrieved by a notice of violation, order, compensatory charge,
action on or regarding a use permit by the City, or inaction by the City for
more than 60 days, after the user makes a written request regarding a matter on
which the City is authorized to take action under this division (“60-day
inaction”). This section does not apply to municipal civil infraction citations
and municipal civil infraction notices as defined in
Chapter 1, §
1-12, of the ordinances of the City of Flint. The request for an informal
conference shall be submitted to the CWPCS. The purpose of the informal
conference is to reach a settlement agreeable to the user and the City. The
informal conference shall be held within 20 days after the user submits the
written request for the informal conference to the CWPCS. The CWPCS may
participate in the conference or appoint a designee to participate. Neither the
CWPCS nor his or her designee shall be required to reach a conclusion or
provide a decision as a result of the conference. A user is not required to
request or participate in an informal conference before seeking judicial
review. Other persons from the City and representatives of the user may attend
and participate in the informal conference.
   (b)   Cease and desist order. If an immediate cease and desist order is the
subject of a request for an informal conference, the informal conference shall
be held as soon as possible, but not later than 20 days after the request is
submitted.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3741, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-162 APPEAL BOARD.
   (a)   Members. The City Wastewater Appeals Board (CWAB) shall consist of the
Chief Legal Officer, the City Risk Manager and the City Director. If there is a
vacancy in any of these three offices, the City Administrator shall appoint an
employee of the department or functional group where the vacancy occurred to
serve as the CWAB member on a temporary basis until the vacancy is filled. If
possible, the temporary appointee shall complete any pending appeals that arise
during the duration of the temporary appointment. The Chief Legal Officer may
designate an Assistant City Attorney to sit on the CWAB. If the City changes
the title or function of the foregoing positions, then the CWAB will have as
members the three City employees with functions most closely related to those
positions. Each of those three members shall have one vote in any matter
decided by the CWAB.
   (b)   Special expert members. At the request of a user or on its own
initiative, the CWAB may retain a person with expertise in the general subject
matter of the user’s appeal (“special expert member”) to provide advice to the
CWAB. The special expert member shall have no vote in the proceedings. If the
special expert member is requested by the user, the user may suggest one or
more persons to serve as a special expert member and shall describe their
qualifications, but the CWAB shall have sole discretion in choosing the special
expert member. All costs, fees and expenses associated with choosing, selecting
and retaining a special expert member requested by the user shall be paid by
the user. The CWAB may require the user to pay these costs in advance. The City
shall bear the cost of any special expert member retained on the initiative of
the CWAB. The CWAB, at its discretion, may agree to share any percentage of the
cost of retaining a special expert member. No person shall serve as a special
expert member who has, within the preceding five years, been an employee of the
user or the City, unless agreed to by both the user and the City.
   (c)   Appeals.
      (1)   A user may appeal to the CWAB any notice of violation, order,
compensatory charge, action on or regarding a use permit by the City, or 60-day
inaction (but not a municipal civil infraction notice as defined in
Chapter 1, §
1-12 of the ordinances of the City of Flint) by filing a written request with
the CWPCS within 20 days after the later of:
         a.   Ten days after the completion of the informal conference; or
         b.   The date the notice of violation, order, notice of compensatory
charge, action on or regarding a use permit by the City is served upon the user
or upon the occurrence of the 60-day inaction.
      (2)   The written request shall describe the matter appealed, a summary
of the user’s position, a copy of the notice or other document from the City
upon which the appeal is based, and any request by the user for a special
expert member. No appeal may be taken to the CWAB of any action or decision
which is specified in this division as being within the sole discretion of the
City Director, as stated in §§
46-146(b)(12);
46-146(d);
46-146(f);
46-147; and
46-162(b).
      (3)   The CWPCS shall promptly forward the written request for appeal to
the Chief Legal Officer who shall notify the other members of the CWAB. The
CWAB may reject any written request for appeal which is not timely and does not
conform to the requirements of this section. Upon receipt of a timely and
conforming written request for appeal, the CWAB shall set a time for the City
and the user to appear before the CWAB to present evidence and arguments in
support of their positions. The user and the City may present witnesses and
documentary evidence to the CWAB. Witnesses shall be sworn and shall be subject
to cross-examination. The proceedings of the CWAB shall be recorded. The rules
of evidence of the courts of the State of Michigan shall not be strictly
applied by the CWAB but shall be a guide for the CWAB in determining which
evidence to admit or exclude and what weight to give the evidence admitted. On
receipt of a request for an appeal, the CWAB shall establish a timetable for
the proceedings and shall promptly render a written decision stating its
findings of fact and conclusions supporting its decision.
   (d)   Costs. If the user requests a transcript of the proceedings, the user
shall pay the cost of preparing the transcript and shall provide a copy to the
City. The user and the City shall pay their own costs of the CWAB proceeding,
including but not limited to attorney fees, expert witnesses (except that the
costs for special expert members shall be paid as set forth in subsection (a)
of this section), other witnesses, documents and tests. The user requesting the
appeal to the CWAB shall pay a fee as established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council and kept on file by the City Clerk. If the CWAB
finds that the user filed a frivolous appeal, or in bad faith, which has no
reasonable basis in fact or law, the CWAB may assess the user for all of the
costs of the CWAB and the City in connection with the appeal and the user shall
pay the same within 30 days.
   (e)   Representatives of parties. The parties may be represented by
attorneys in all proceedings before the CWAB.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3741, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-163 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Appeal from a final decision of the CWAB shall be to a court of law.
Judicial review shall be limited to the record from the CWAB proceedings,
unless the court allows additional material. The decision of the CWAB shall be
upheld if it is supported by substantial evidence and is not contrary to law.
The user shall be required to exhaust all administrative remedies available
under §
46-162 before seeking judicial review.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-164 STAYS.
   (a)   If a user makes a timely request for an informal conference under §
46-161 or for an appeal to the CWAB under §
46-162, the order, compensatory charge, or action on or regarding a use permit,
which is the subject of a request for an informal conference or appeal to the
CWAB, shall be stayed until a final determination is reached.
   (b)   The following shall not be stayed, except by order of a court of law:
      (1)   An immediate cease and desist order;
      (2)   An order or action on or regarding a user permit that involves an
emergency situation, a threat to public health or safety, a threat to proper
operation of the POTW, interference or a threat to the environment; or
      (3)   Any action within the discretion of the City Director as stated in
§§
46-146(b)(12);
46-146(d);
46-146(f);
46-147; and
46-162(b).
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-165 CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   Each day on which a violation of this division, a use permit, or an order
occurs shall be a separate violation. Every violation of each section of this
division shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-166 PENALTIES, FINES AND REMEDIES.
   (a)   Civil judicial relief. The City Director, through the Chief Legal
Officer, may pursue an action at law or in equity to enjoin, abate or prosecute
any violation of this division, a use permit or an order. The City Director may
seek temporary or permanent injunctive relief, damages, compensatory charges,
civil penalties under subsection (b) of this section, costs under §§
46-157,
46-162(d),
46-166(e),
46-171, and
46-172; and such other relief as a court may order.
   (b)   Civil penalties. In an action brought by the City against a user for
violation of this division, a use permit or an order, a court may impose a
civil penalty of up to $5,000.00 per day per violation. In calculating the
amount of the penalty, the court shall consider the frequency of the violation;
the impact on the POTW, human health and the environment; the magnitude and
duration of the violation; the economic benefit to the user from the violation;
the compliance history of the user; and other factors deemed appropriate by the
court.
   (c)   Municipal civil infraction; civil fine. Violations of this division
shall constitute a municipal civil infraction, and the City Director and City
Enforcement Officers are authorized persons and authorized local officials to
issue a municipal civil infraction citation or a municipal civil infraction
notice for any violation of this division, a use permit or an order, except for
violations punishable under §
46-168. The municipal civil infraction civil fine for any violation of this
division, a use permit or an order shall be up to $5,000.00 per violation per
day. In calculating the amount of the municipal civil infraction civil fine,
the City Director, the City Enforcement Officer or the court, as applicable,
shall consider the frequency of violation by the user, the impact on the POTW
and human health and the environment of the violation, the magnitude and
duration of the violation, the economic benefit to the user gained by the
violation, the compliance history of the user, and other factors deemed
appropriate by the court, the City Director or the City Enforcement Officer, as
applicable. The provisions of
Chapter 1, §§
1-12 and
1-19 shall apply to municipal civil infraction citations and municipal civil
infraction notices issued under this division.
   (d)   Cumulative remedies. The imposition of a single civil penalty, civil
fine, criminal fine, order, damage or compensatory charge upon a user for a
violation of this division, a use permit or an order shall not preclude the
imposition by the City or a court of additional sanctions and remedies with
respect to the same violation except that a user shall not have both a civil
penalty under subsection (b) of this section and a civil fine under subsection
(c) of this section imposed on it for the same violation. Prosecution of a
criminal action against a user shall not be stayed pending the outcome of a
civil action involving the same violation.
   (e)   Compensatory charges. In addition to prosecution and the imposition of
penalties and fines for violations, a user violating this division, a use
permit, or an order shall be subject to one or more compensatory charges in
accordance with this division.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3637, passed 3-28-2005; Ord. 3742, passed
11-19-2008; Ord. 3776, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 46-167 VIOLATION CONSTITUTES A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Violations of this division, a permit or an order are a public nuisance.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-168 CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
   (a)   Violations – generally. Any user who willfully or intentionally
violates any provision of this division or any order or use permit issued
hereunder shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as
provided in §
1-7 of the Code. Each day of violation is a separate offense.
   (b)   Falsifying information. Any user who knowingly makes any false
statements, representations or certifications in any application, record,
report, plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
this division, or a use permit or an order, or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this division shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
provided in §
1-7 of the Code. Each day of violation is a separate offense.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-169 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   A user shall have the affirmative defense described in Michigan Rule R
323.2303(3) to the extent it applies and only with respect to the violations
referenced in the first sentence of Michigan Rule R 323.2303(3).
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-170 VANDALISM AND TRESPASS.
   Any person who violates the following subsections shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided in §
1-7 of the Code. The notice provisions of §
46-160 shall not apply to this section.
   (a)   Vandalism. No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the POTW.
   (b)   Trespass. No person shall partially or fully enter or otherwise access
any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the POTW, except
as specifically authorized by the City Director.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-171 LIEN FOR CHARGES AND FEES.
   Any charge, fee, cost or other amount required to be paid under this
division or under any ordinance or resolution of the City relating to use of
the POTW which is not paid when due, shall be a lien upon the premises served
by the POTW. The amount may be certified to the Tax Assessor collected in the
same manner that other special assessments are collected under the Charter or
by any other lawful means.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-172 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   Any user violating any of the provisions of this division, or who discharges
or causes a discharge producing a deposit or obstruction, or causes damage to
or impairs the POTW or its operation (including management of sludge) or
otherwise causes the City to incur additional or non-routine costs, shall be
liable to the City for any expense, loss or costs of the damage caused by the
violation or discharge.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-173 PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT VIOLATORS.
   The City shall publish, once per year in the largest daily newspaper in the
City, a public notice of users which, at any time during the previous 12
months, were in significant violation of Federal, State, or City pretreatment
standards or requirements. For the purposes of this section, a user is in
significant violation if its violation(s) meet one or more of the following
criteria:
   (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed by any magnitude a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 C.F.R., Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Part 403.3(l);
   (b)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as results in
which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as
defined by 40 C.F.R., Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Part 403.3(l) multiplied by the
applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, and fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for
all other pollutants except pH);
   (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R., Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Part 403.3(l) (daily maximum,
long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrrative standard) that the City
determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass-through (including endangering the health of City
personnel or the general public);
   (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent danger to human
health, welfare or to the environment, or has resulted in the City’s exercise
of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such discharge;
   (e)   Violation, by 90 days or more after the schedule date, of a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a use permit or order, for starting
construction, completing construction or attaining final compliance with
pretreatment standards;
   (f)   Failure to provide required reports such as baseline monitoring
reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and
reports on compliance with compliance schedules within 30 days after the due
date;
   (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (h)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, which the City determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the City’s pretreatment
program.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 3743, passed 11-19-2008)
§ 46-174 UPSETS.
   (a)   Upset liability. In the event of an upset, the upset shall be an
affirmative defense for the user to an action against that user for fines,
imprisonment or civil penalties provided for in this division, but the user
shall not have an affirmative defense to an action for compensatory charges and
damages based on an upset. In any proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   (b)   Conditions necessary for a demonstration of upset. A user who wishes
to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate, through
properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence,
that all of the following apply:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   At the time of the upset, the facility was being operated in a
prudent and workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
      (3)   The user submitted the following information to the City within 24
hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information was provided orally,
a written submission was provided within five days):
         a.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (c)   User responsibility in case of upset. The user shall control
production or all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance
with CPS and other applicable discharge limits upon reduction, loss, failure or
abnormal condition of its process or treatment facility until the process and
facility are restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This
requirement applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary
source of power of the user’s treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-175 BYPASS.
   (a)   Bypass notice. If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall give notice to the City if possible, at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, but in no case less than 24 hours.
   (b)   Notification of unanticipated bypass. A user shall give oral notice of
an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable categorical pretreatment
standards and other applicable discharge limits to the City within 24 hours
from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided to the City within five days of the time the user becomes
aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the bypass and its cause;
      (2)   The duration of the bypass (including exact dates and times); and,
if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and
      (3)   The steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
   (c)   Waiver of report. The City may waive the written report if the oral
report has been received within 24 hours.
   (d)   Prohibition of bypass. Bypass is prohibited, and the City may take
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
      (1)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury or
severe property damage; and,
      (2)   There were no feasible alternatives to bypass, such as the use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if
adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during
normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
      (3)   The user gave notice required under subsection (a) of this section.
   (e)   POTW approved bypass. The City may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the City determines that it will meet
the three conditions listed in subsection (d) of this section.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-176 CONFLICT WITH EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   All existing ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 46-177 SAVING PROVISION.
   The invalidity of any section, clause or provision in this division shall
not affect the validity of any other part of this division which may be given
effect without reliance upon any such invalid part or parts.
(Ord. 3630, passed 12-13-2004)
APPENDIX: TABLES
Tables
   
Table 46-146(c)   Pollutant Concentration Limits
   
Table 46-146(d)(2)   Maximum Allowable Industrial Loadings
TABLE 46-146(c) POLLUTANT CONCENTRATION LIMITS
Pollutant Instantaneous Concentration Limits Daily Concentration Limits
Pollutant                 Instantaneous        Daily Concentration Limits
                          Concentration Limits
Biochemical Oxygen Demand                      427 mg/l
Hexane-extractable                             100 mg/l
Material
Ammonia-Nitrogen                               37 mg/l
Total Phosphorus                               7 mg/l
Total Suspended Solids                         305 mg/l
Total Arsenic                                  12 ug/l
Total Cadmium                                  14 ug/l
Total Chromium                                 48 ug/l
Hexavalent Chromium                            5 ug/l
Total Copper                                   179 ug/l
Amenable Cyanide          1,195 ug/l           5 ug/l
Total Lead                                     107 ug/l
Total Mercury                                  0.012 ug/l (1)
Total Nickel                                   43 ug/l
Total Silver                                   23 ug/l
Total Zinc                                     445 ug/l
Total PCB                                      0.00020 ug/l (2)
Benzene                   174 ug/l             1 ug/l
Toluene                   1,753 ug/l           187 ug/l
Ethylbenzene              2,048 ug/l           1 ug/l
Total Xylenes             2,009 ug/l           2 ug/l
 
   (1)   Mercury sample collection, preservation, and handling procedures and
analytical protocol for compliance monitoring shall be in accordance with U.S.
EPA Method 245.1 or 245.2 or Method 1631, as determined by the City Director.
Whenever the quantification level is less than or equal to the discharge limit,
the discharge limit shall apply directly. However, whenever the quantification
level is above the discharge limit, the discharge of mercury at or above the
quantification level shall represent an exceedance of the limit. The
quantification level under Methods 245.1 and 245.2 shall be 0.2 ug/l, unless a
higher level is appropriate due to matrix interference. If the concentration of
the discharge sample is less than the quantification level when Method 245.1 or
245.2 are applicable, the user shall be considered to be in compliance with the
mercury limit for the period that the sample represents, provided that the user
is also in full compliance with any mercury minimization requirements
applicable to that user. The quantification level under Method 1631 shall be
0.5 ng/l, unless a higher level is appropriate due to matrix interference.
Justification for higher quantification levels shall be submitted to the City
Director within 30 days of such determination. This footnote does not authorize
the discharge of mercury at levels which interfere with the POTW or which
constitute a threat to public health, welfare or the waters of the State.
   (2)   Total PCB shall be defined as the sum of the concentrations of
aroclors 1016, 1221, 1232, 1242, 1248, 1254, and 1260. In addition, any
detected aroclor-specific measurements shall be reported. Total PCB sample
collection, preservation and handling procedures and analytical protocol for
compliance monitoring shall be in accordance with U.S. EPA Method 608. The
quantification level shall not exceed 0.2 ug/l, unless a higher level is
appropriate due to sample matrix interference. Whenever the quantification
level is less than or equal to the discharge limit, the discharge limit shall
apply directly; however, whenever the quantification level is above the
discharge limit, the discharge of total PCB at or above the quantification
level shall represent an exceedance of the limit. If the concentration of the
discharge sample is less than the quantification level, the user shall be
considered to be in compliance with the total PCB limit for the period that the
sample represents, provided that the user is also in full compliance with any
total PCB minimization requirements applicable to that user. Any aroclor
analytical result which is less than the quantification level shall be
considered as a zero in the summation of the aroclor results for the sample.
This footnote does not authorize the discharge of total PCB at levels which
interfere with the POTW or which constitute a threat to public health, welfare
or the waters of the State.
(Ord. 3637, passed 3-28-2005)
TABLE 46-146(d)(2) MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE INDUSTRIAL LOADINGS
Pollutant Maximum Allowable Industrial Loading
Pollutant                   Maximum Allowable Industrial Loading
Biochemical Oxygen Demand   40,693 pounds/day
Hexane-extractable Material 17,589 pounds/day
Ammonia Nitrogen            3,363 pounds/day
Total Phosphorus            223 pounds/day
Total Suspended Solids      15,009 pounds/day
Total Arsenic               5.29 pounds/day
Total Cadmium               4.12 pounds/day
Total Chromium              162 pounds/day
Hexavalent Chromium         7.18 pounds/day
Total Copper                39.4 pounds/day
Amenable Cyanide            2.66 pounds/day
Total Lead                  28.7 pounds/day
Total Mercury               0.000229 pounds/day
Total Nickel                34.7 pounds/day
Total Silver                3.90 pounds/day
Total Zinc                  84.8 pounds/day
Total PCB                   0.00000390 pounds/day
Benzene                     148 pounds/day
Toluene                     205 pounds/day
Ethylbenzene                31.7 pounds/day
Total Xylenes               43.0 pounds/day
 
(Ord. 3637, passed 3-28-2005)
CHAPTER 47: WARDS AND PRECINCTS
Editor’s note:
   Ordinances establishing the wards and precincts within the City are not set
out herein but are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
CHAPTER 48: WATERCRAFT
Section
   
48-1   Manner and speed of operation
   
48-2   Operation while under the influence
   
48-3   Reckless operation
   
48-4   Limitation on hours of towing water skiers
   
48-5   Motorboat to have observer on board when towing skier; exception
   
48-6   Use of mufflers
   
48-7   Use of buoy while conducting diving operations
§ 48-1 MANNER AND SPEED OF OPERATION.
   Any person operating or propelling a watercraft upon any waterway in the
City shall operate the same in a careful and prudent manner, and at such rate
of speed so as not to endanger the life or property of any person. No person
shall operate any watercraft at a rate of speed greater than will permit him or
her, in the exercise of reasonable care, to bring the watercraft to a stop
within the assured clear distance ahead. No person shall operate a watercraft
in a manner so as to unreasonably interfere with the lawful use by others of
any waters.
(Ord. 1686, passed 7-23-1962)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MSA § 18.1287(72)
§ 48-2 OPERATION WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, barbital or any derivative of barbital,
or any person who is a habitual user of narcotic drugs, barbital or any
derivative of barbital, to operate, propel or be in actual physical control of
any watercraft upon any waterway in the City. It shall be unlawful for the
owner of any watercraft or any person having such in charge or in control
thereof, to authorize or knowingly permit the same to be propelled or operated
by any person who is under the influence of any intoxicating liquor or narcotic
drugs, barbital or any derivative of barbital, or any person who is a habitual
user of narcotic drugs, barbital or any derivative of barbital.
(Ord. 1686, passed 7-23-1962)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MSA § 18.1287(73)
§ 48-3 RECKLESS OPERATION.
   No person shall operate any watercraft, or navigate, steer or control
himself or herself while being towed on water skis, water sleds, surfboards or
similar contrivances, upon any of the waterways of the City carelessly and
heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or without due
caution and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property. Any person who shall so act shall
be guilty of reckless operation of a watercraft.
(Ord. 1686, passed 7-23-1962)
§ 48-4 LIMITATION ON HOURS OF TOWING WATER SKIERS.
   No operator of any watercraft shall have in tow or shall otherwise be
assisting in the propulsion of a person on water skis, water sled, surfboard or
other similar contrivance during the period one hour after sunset to one hour
prior to sunrise. No person shall permit himself or herself to be towed on
water skis, water sleds, surfboards or similar contrivances in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1686, passed 7-23-1962)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MSA § 18.1287(77)
§ 48-5 MOTORBOAT TO HAVE OBSERVER ON BOARD WHEN TOWING SKIER; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall operate on any waterway a motorboat having in tow or
otherwise assisting a person on water skis, water sled, aquaplane or other
similar contrivance, unless there is in the motorboat, in addition to the
operator, at least one competent person in a position to observe the progress
of the person being towed. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
motorboats used by duly constituted ski schools in the giving of instructions,
or to motorboats used in sanctioned ski tournaments, competitions, expositions
or trials therefor, or to motorboats equipped with not less than a 170-degree
wide-angle rear view mirror affixed in such a manner as will permit the
operator to observe the progress of the person being towed.
(Ord. 1686, passed 7-23-1962)
Statutory reference:
   Similar State law, see MSA § 18.1287(78)
§ 48-6 USE OF MUFFLERS.
   (a)   Every watercraft being operated on the waterways in the City and being
propelled by a permanently or temporarily attached motor shall be provided and
equipped with a stock factory muffler, underwater exhaust or other modern
device capable of adequately muffling the sound of the exhaust of the engine of
the motorboat. The mufflers shall be kept closed, and the exhaust or device
kept in proper working order by any person operating or in charge of the
watercraft at all times when the engine is in operation.
   (b)   The term CAPABLE OF ADEQUATELY MUFFLING THE SOUND OF THE EXHAUST OF
THE ENGINE means the motor’s exhaust at all times shall be so muffled or
suppressed as not to create excessive or unusual noise.
(Ord. 1686, passed 7-23-1962)
§ 48-7 USE OF BUOY WHILE CONDUCTING DIVING OPERATIONS.
   Any person diving or submerging in any waterway with the aid of a diving
suit or other mechanical diving device may place a buoy in the water at or near
the point of submergence. The buoy shall be in place only while actual diving
operations are in progress.
(Ord. 1686, passed 7-23-1962)
CHAPTER 49: WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Section
Article I. In General
   
49-1   Definitions
   
49-2   Recognition of standards
   
49-3   Adoption of State standards
   
49-4   Custody of standards; enforcement of chapter; supervision of weights and
measures
   
49-5   Enforcement of State rules and regulations
   
49-6   Inspections authorized
   
49-7   Investigation of complaints
   
49-8   Weighing of packages or amounts of commodities and the like
   
49-9   Issuance of stop-use, stop-removal or removal orders
   
49-10   Approval of weights and measures; condemnation, seizure and the like
   
49-11   Power of Sealer
   
49-12   Deputy Sealer and inspectors
   
49-13   Approval and updating of City standards
   
49-14   Sale by liquid measure or by weight
   
49-15   Contents of package labels
   
49-16   Price per single unit of weight, measure and the like
   
49-17   Packaging as to mislead relative to quantity of contents
   
49-18   Quantity of contents to accompany statement of retail price
   
49-19   Net weight to be used
   
49-20   Sale of meat, poultry and the like
   
49-21   Misrepresentation of price prohibited
   
49-22   Hindering or obstructing Sealer or Deputy Sealer
   
49-23   Impersonation of Sealer or Deputy Sealer
   
49-24   Prohibited acts
   
49-25   Presumption from presence of weighing or measuring device on premises
   
49-26   City scales
Article II. Sale of Gasoline and Motor Fuel
   
49-27   License required
   
49-28   Same — fee; term; renewal; revocation; nontransferable
   
49-29   Motor fuel and gasoline standards
   
49-30   Tests and inspections generally; calibration and sealing of pumps
   
49-31   Accumulation of water or sludge in storage tanks prohibited
   
49-32   Blending of gasoline; advertising untrue boiling point prohibited
   
49-33   Construction and location of pumps
   
49-34   Delivery of fuel to vehicle with motor running prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Weights and measures generally, see MSA §§ 12.1-81(1) et seq.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 49-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   BARREL. When used in connection with fermented liquor, means a unit of 31
gallons.
   COMMODITY IN PACKAGE FORM. A commodity put up or packaged in any manner in
advance of sale in units suitable for either wholesale or retail sale,
exclusive, however, of an auxiliary shipping container enclosing packages that
individually conform to the requirements of this chapter. An individual item or
lot of any commodity not in package form as defined in this section, but on
which there is marked a selling price based on an established price per unit of
weight or of measure, shall be construed to be COMMODITY IN PACKAGE FORM.
   CONSUMER PACKAGE or PACKAGE OF CONSUMER COMMODITY. A commodity in package
form that is customarily produced or distributed for sale through retail sales
agencies or instrumentalities for consumption by individuals, or use by
individuals for the purpose of personal care or in the performance of services
ordinarily rendered in or about the household or in connection with personal
possessions, and which usually is consumed or expended in the course of the
consumption or use.
   CORD. When used in connection with wood intended for fuel purposes or
pulpwood, means the amount of wood that is contained in a space of 128 cubic
feet when the wood is ranked and well stowed.
   DIRECTOR and DEPUTY DIRECTOR. Respectively the Director of Weights and
Measures of the State and the Deputy Director of Weights and Measures for the
State.
   NONCONSUMER PACKAGE or PACKAGE OF NONCONSUMER COMMODITY. Any commodity in
package form other than a consumer package, and particularly a package designed
solely for industrial or institutional use or for wholesale distribution only.
   SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES and DEPUTY SEALER OF WEIGHTS AND
MEASURES. The Sealer of Weights and Measures or Deputy Sealer of Weights and
Measures of the City.
   SELL or SALE. Barter and exchange.
   TON. A unit of 2,000 pounds avoirdupois weight.
   WEIGHT. In connection with any commodity, means net weight.
   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. Weights and measures of every kind, instruments and
devices for weighing and measuring, and any appliances and accessories
associated with any or all such instruments and devices, except that the term
shall not be construed to include meters for the measurement of electricity,
gas (natural or manufactured) or water or devices to measure the usage of
communications services when the same are operated in a public utility system.
Such devices or any appliances or accessories associated therewith are excluded
from this chapter.
(Ord. 2142, passed 11-5-1973)
§ 49-2 RECOGNITION OF STANDARDS.
   The systems of weights and measures in customary use in the United States
and the metric system of weights and measures are jointly recognized, and one
or the other of these systems shall be used for all commercial purposes in this
City. The definition of basic units of weight and measure, the tables of weight
and the National Bureau of Standards are recognized and shall govern weighing
and measuring equipment and transactions in the City.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-3 ADOPTION OF STATE STANDARDS.
   Weights and measures in conformity with the standards of the United States
as have been supplied to the State by the Federal Government or otherwise
obtained by the State for use as State standards, when the same have been
certified as being satisfactory for use as such by the National Bureau of
Standards, shall be the City standards of weights and measures.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-4 CUSTODY OF STANDARDS; ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER; SUPERVISION OF WEIGHTS AND
MEASURES.
   The Sealer shall have the custody of the City standards of weights and
measures and of the other standards and equipment provided for by this chapter,
and shall keep accurate records of the same. The Sealer shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter. He or she shall have general supervision over the
weights and measures offered for sale, sold or in use in this City.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-5 ENFORCEMENT OF STATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Sealer shall be empowered to enforce all rules and regulations
authorized to be issued by the Director pursuant to MSA §§ 12.1081(1) et seq.
as promulgated in accordance with MSA §§ 3.560(7) et seq. and subject to MSA §§
3.560(21.1) et seq.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-6 INSPECTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (a)   When not otherwise provided by law, the Sealer may inspect, and test
to ascertain if they are correct, all weights and measures kept, offered or
exposed for sale. He or she shall inspect, and test to ascertain if they are
correct, all weights and measures commercially used in:
      (1)   Determining the weight, measurement or count of commodities or
things sold or offered or exposed for sale on the basis of weight or of measure
of count; and
      (2)   Computing the basic charge or payment for services, rendered on the
basis of weight or of measure or count.
   (b)   With respect to devices designed to be used commercially only once and
to be then discarded, and with respect to devices uniformly mass-produced as by
means of a mold or die and not susceptible to individual adjustment, the
inspection and testing of each individual device shall not be required and the
inspecting and testing requirements of this section shall be satisfied when
inspections and tests are made on representative samples of such devices; and
the lots, of which the samples are representative, shall be held to be correct
or incorrect upon the basis of the results of the inspection and tests of the
samples.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-7 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   The Sealer shall investigate complaints made to him or her concerning
violations of the provisions of this chapter, and shall, upon his or her own
initiative, conduct such investigations as he or she deems advisable to develop
information on prevailing procedures in commercial quantity determination and
on possible violations of the provisions of this chapter and to promote the
general objective of accuracy in the determination and representation of
quantity in commercial transactions.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-8 WEIGHING OF PACKAGES OR AMOUNTS OF COMMODITIES AND THE LIKE.
   The Sealer, as often as he or she deems advisable, shall weigh, measure or
inspect packages or amounts of commodities offered or exposed for sale, sold or
in the process of delivery, to determine whether they contain the amounts
represented and whether they be offered or exposed for sale, or sold in
accordance with the law. When such packages or amounts of commodities are found
not to contain the amounts represented, or are found to be kept, or offered or
exposed for sale in violation of law, the Sealer may order their sale
discontinued and may so mark or tag them as to show them to be illegal. The
Sealer may employ recognized sampling procedures under which the compliance of
a given lot of packages will be determined on the basis of the result obtained
on a sample selected from the representative of the lot.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-9 ISSUANCE OF STOP-USE, STOP-REMOVAL OR REMOVAL ORDERS.
   The Sealer may issue stop-use orders, stop-removal orders or removal orders
with respect to weights and measures being or susceptible of being commercially
used. He or she may issue stop-removal orders or removal orders with respect to
packages or amounts of commodities kept, offered or exposed for sale, sold or
in the process of delivery, whenever in the course of his or her enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter he or she deems it necessary or expedient to
issue such orders. No person shall use, remove from the premises specified, or
fail to remove from the premises specified, any weight, measure, package or
amount of commodity contrary to the terms of any order issued pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-10 APPROVAL OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES; CONDEMNATION, SEIZURE AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   Approval by Sealer. The Sealer shall approve for use and seal or mark
with appropriate devices such weights and measures as he or she finds upon
inspection or test to be “correct.” He or she shall reject or condemn and seal
or mark as “rejected” or “condemned” such weights and measures as he or she
finds upon inspection or test to be “incorrect.” Sealing or marking shall not
be required with respect to weights and measures which are exempted by a
regulation of the Director issued pursuant to §
49-5 hereof.
   (b)   The weights and measures found to be incorrect. Weights and measures
that have been rejected or condemned and ordered corrected or disposed of may
be confiscated and may be destroyed by the Sealer if not corrected as required
by, or if disposed of contrary to the requirement of §
49-5 hereof.
   (c)   Weights and measures rejected or condemned. Weights and measures that
have been rejected or condemned and ordered corrected or disposed of under
authority of the Sealer shall remain subject to the control of the Sealer until
such time as suitable repair or disposition thereof has been made pursuant to
this chapter. The owners of the rejected or condemned weights and measures
shall cause the same to be made correct within a specified period authorized by
the Sealer, or may dispose of the same but only in such manner as is
specifically authorized by the Sealer.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-11 POWER OF SEALER.
   (a)   The Sealer is vested with special powers with respect to the
enforcement of this chapter and any other provision of this Code or ordinance
of the City dealing with weights and measures that he or she is or may be
empowered to enforce. He or she may apply to the Director for seizure for use
as evidence without formal warrant incorrect or unsealed weights and measures
or amounts of packages of commodities found to be used, retained, offered or
exposed for sale, or sold in violation of law. In the performance of his or her
duties, he or she shall have authority to apply to any court of competent
jurisdiction for a formal warrant to search any structure wherein he or she has
probable cause to believe that packages or commodities, weights or measures are
kept in violation of this chapter.
   (b)   The Sealer and his or her Deputy Sealer or inspectors shall have the
same powers and perform the same duties within the City as are granted to and
imposed upon the State Director by MSA §§ 12.1081(1) et seq. This chapter is
declared to be in no way conflicting with such provisions or contrary to any
regulation issued pursuant thereto and if there are any conflicts, the State
law shall control.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-12 DEPUTY SEALER AND INSPECTORS.
   The powers and duties given to and imposed upon the Sealer by this chapter
are given to and imposed upon the Deputy Sealer and inspectors when acting
under the instructions of the Sealer.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-13 APPROVAL AND UPDATING OF CITY STANDARDS.
   The City standards shall be examined and approved by the State Director and
they shall be the official standards for the City. The Sealer shall make, or
arrange to have made, at least as frequently as once in five years, comparisons
between his or her standards and appropriate standards of a higher order
belonging to the State in order to maintain the standards in accurate
condition.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-14 SALE BY LIQUID MEASURE OR BY WEIGHT.
   (a)   Commodities in liquid form shall be sold only by liquid measure or by
weight, and commodities not in liquid form shall be sold only by weight,
measure or by count. However, liquid commodities may be sold by weight and
nonliquid commodities may be sold by count only if such methods give accurate
information as to the quantity of commodity sold. This section shall not apply
to:
      (1)   Commodities sold for immediate consumption on the premises where
sold;
      (2)   Vegetables sold by the head or bunch;
      (3)   Commodities in containers standardized by law of this State or by
Federal law; or
      (4)   Commodities in package form when there exists a general consumer
usage in package form when there exists a general consumer usage to express the
quantity in some other manner.
   (b)   The Sealer is specifically directed and empowered to enforce the
regulations as issued by the State Director necessary to assure the amounts of
commodities sold are determined in accordance with good commercial practice and
are so determined and represented as to be accurate and informative to all
parties in interest.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-15 CONTENTS OF PACKAGE LABELS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any commodity in package form
kept for the purpose of sale, or offered or exposed for sale, shall bear on the
outside of the package such definite, plain, legible and conspicuous
declarations of:
   (a)   The identity of the commodity in the package, unless the same can
easily be identified through the wrapper or container;
   (b)   The net quantity of the contents in terms of weight, measure or count,
but the term “when packed” or any words of similar import, or any term
qualifying a unit of weight, measure or count, such as “jumbo,” “giant,” “full”
or the like, that tend to exaggerate the amount of commodity in a package,
shall not be used; and
   (c)   The name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer or
distributor in the case of any package kept, offered or exposed for sale, or
sold any place other than on the premises where packed as may be prescribed by
regulation promulgated by the State Director.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-16 PRICE PER SINGLE UNIT OF WEIGHT, MEASURE AND THE LIKE.
   In addition to the declarations required by §
49-15, any commodity in package form, which package is one of a lot containing
random weights, measures or counts of the same commodity and bears the total
selling price of the package, shall bear on the outside of the package a plain
and conspicuous declaration of the price per single unit of weight, measure or
count.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-17 PACKAGING AS TO MISLEAD RELATIVE TO QUANTITY OF CONTENTS.
   Any commodity in package form shall not be so wrapped, nor shall it be in a
container so made, formed or filled as to mislead the purchaser as to the
quantity of the contents of the package.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-18 QUANTITY OF CONTENTS TO ACCOMPANY STATEMENT OF RETAIL PRICE.
   Whenever a commodity in package form is advertised in any manner and the
retail price of the package is stated in the advertisement, there shall be
closely and conspicuously associated with such statement of price a declaration
of the basic quantity of contents of the package as is required by law or
regulation to appear on the package; except, that this section shall not apply
to products for agricultural or horticultural use where the customs to state
the number of objects or amount of area which can be treated per package unit
and the number of objects or amount of area is so stated. Where the law or
regulation requires the declaration of net quantity to appear on the package in
terms of more than one unit of weight or measure, only the smallest unit of
weight or measure need be stated in the advertisement. In connection with the
declaration the qualifying term “when packaged” or any other words of similar
import, or any term qualifying a unit of weight, measure or count, for example,
“jumbo,” “giant,” “full” and the like that tends to exaggerate the amount of
commodity in the package shall not be used.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-19 NET WEIGHT TO BE USED.
   When any commodity is sold on the basis of weight, the net weight of the
commodity shall be employed and all contracts concerning commodities shall be
so construed.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-20 SALE OF MEAT, POULTRY AND THE LIKE.
   Except for immediate consumption on the premises where sold, or as one of
several elements comprising a ready-to-eat meal sold as a unit for consumption
elsewhere than on the premises where sold, all meat, meat products, poultry,
whole or parts, and all seafood except shellfish, offered or exposed for sale
or sold as food shall be offered or exposed for sale and sold by weight. When
meat, poultry or seafood is combined with or associated with some other food
elements or elements to form either a distinctive food product or a food
combination, the food product or combination shall be offered or exposed for
sale and sold by weight, and the quantity representation may be the total
weight of the product or combination, and a quantity representation need not be
made for each of the several elements of the product or combination.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-21 MISREPRESENTATION OF PRICE PROHIBITED.
   Whenever any commodity or service is sold, or is offered, exposed or
advertised for sale, by weight, measure or count, the price shall not be
misrepresented, nor shall the price be represented in any manner calculated or
tending to mislead or deceive an actual or prospective purchaser. Whenever an
advertised, posted or labeled price per unit of weight, measure or count
includes a fraction of a cent, all elements of the fraction shall be
prominently displayed and the numeral or numerals expressing the fraction shall
be immediately adjacent to, of the same general design and style as, and at
least one-half the height and width of the numerals representing the whole
cents.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-22 HINDERING OR OBSTRUCTING SEALER OR DEPUTY SEALER.
   Any person who shall hinder or obstruct in any way the Sealer, or Deputy
Sealer in the performance of his or her official duties shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-23 IMPERSONATION OF SEALER OR DEPUTY SEALER.
   Any person who shall impersonate in any way the Sealer or Deputy Sealer, by
the use of his or her seal or a counterfeit, or in any other manner, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-24 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   Any person who, by himself, herself or by his or her servant or agent, or as
the servant or agent of another person, performs any of the acts enumerated in
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor:
   (a)   Use or have in possession for the purpose of using for any commercial
purpose of using for any commercial purpose specified in §
49-6 hereof, sell, offer or expose for sale or hire, or have in possession for
the purpose of selling or hiring, an incorrect weight or measure or any device
or instrument used or calculated to falsify any weight or measure;
   (b)   Use or have in possession for current use in the buying or selling of
any commodity or thing, or for hire or award, or in the computation of any
basic charge or payment for services rendered on the basis of weight or
measure, or in the determination of weight and measure when a charge is made
for such determination, any weight or measure that has not been tested and
sealed by the appropriate authority:
      (1)   Unless written notice has been given to the appropriate authority
to the effect that the weight or measure is available for examination, or is
due for re-examination;
      (2)   Unless permission to use the weight or measure has been received
from the appropriate authority; or
      (3)   Unless the weight or measure has been exempted from sealing or
testing requirements by the provisions of § 49-6 hereof or by regulation of the
Director issued under the authority of State law.
   (c)   Dispose of any rejected or condemned weight or measure in a manner
contrary to law or regulation;
   (d)   Remove from any weight or measure, contrary to law or regulation, any
tag, seal or marked place thereon by the appropriate authority;
   (e)   Sell, or offer or expose for sale, less than the quantity he or she
represents of any commodity, thing or service;
   (f)   Taking more than the quantity he or she represents of any commodity,
thing or service where, as buyer, he or she furnishes the weight or measure by
means of which the amount of the commodity, thing or service is determined;
   (g)   Advertise, or offer or expose for sale, or sell any commodity, thing
or service in a condition or manner contrary to law;
   (h)   Use in retail trade, except in the preparation of packages put up in
advance of sale and of medical prescriptions, a weight or measure that is not
so positioned that its indications may be accurately read and the weighing or
measuring operation observed from some position which may reasonably be
occupied by a customer; or
   (i)   Violate any provision of this chapter or of the regulations
promulgated by the State Director under the provisions of State law for which a
specific penalty has not been prescribed.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-25 PRESUMPTION FROM PRESENCE OF WEIGHING OR MEASURING DEVICE ON PREMISES.
   Proof of the existence of a weight, measure or a weighing or measuring
device in or about any building, enclosure, stand or vehicle in which or from
which it is shown that buying or selling is commonly carried on, in the absence
of conclusive evidence to the contrary, shall be presumptive proof of the
regular use of the weight, measure or weighing or measuring device for
commercial purposes and of such use by the person in charge of the building,
enclosure, stand or vehicle.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969)
§ 49-26 CITY SCALES.
   (a)   The City scales, lying between the Flint River and East Boulevard
Drive, north of Robert T. Longway Boulevard, shall be under the jurisdiction
and control of the Sealer of Weights and Measures and it shall be the duty of
the Sealer to maintain the scales in accordance with the standards established
by State law. The scales shall be available for use by members of the public.
The Sealer shall establish, by rule, the days of the week and the hours of the
day that the scales shall be kept open for business and he or she shall cause a
posting of the hours and days in a conspicuous place at the scales.
   (b)   Fees for the use of the scales shall be paid to the Sealer, or his or
her duly authorized representative, at the time of use of the scales. The fees
shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept
on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 2143, passed 7-14-1969; Ord. 3426, passed 2-8-1999)
ARTICLE II. SALE OF GASOLINE AND MOTOR FUEL
§ 49-27 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale or have in his or her possession with
intent to sell or offer for sale, any motor fuel to be used in a motor vehicle
without having first obtained a license.
(Ord. 2115, passed 7-14-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibiting fraud and deceit in sale of liquid fuels, see MSA §§ 28.521 –
28.526
§ 49-28 SAME — FEE; TERM; RENEWAL; REVOCATION; NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (a)   Any dealer in motor fuel may obtain a license from the City Clerk upon
payment of the fee specified in
Chapter 26 of this Code of ordinances. Any license so obtained shall
automatically expire on April 30 of each year, at which time a new license
shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the payment of the proper fee.
   (b)   Any license issued under this article may be revoked by the City
Council for violation of this article after notice given to, and a reasonable
opportunity for the person holding such license to be heard. Such license shall
not thereafter be renewed without the consent of the City Council. It shall be
unlawful for any person to sell or transfer the license without the consent of
the City Council.
(Ord. 1215, passed 2-26-1969)
§ 49-29 MOTOR FUEL AND GASOLINE STANDARDS.
   (a)   Motor fuel shall be volatile hydrocarbon fuel free from water and
suspended matter, and shall be suitable for use as fuel in internal combustion
engines. The motor fuel sold under the trade name of gasoline shall, during the
months of the year indicated in the following chart, meet the requirements set
out opposite the month:
 
           Minimum Percentage
           to be Evaporated
           at Temperatures    Distillation                  Gum
Month      (in degrees)       Residue      Vapor Pressure   Corrosion  Sulphur
                              (max. % psi) (max. @ 100°F.) (in 100    (max.)
           10% 50% 90%                                      ml)


January,   140 284 392        2            15.0             5          0.25
February
March,
December,  149 284 392        2            11.0             5          0.25
April, May
October,
November   158 284 392        2            9.5              5          0.25
June,
July,
August,
September
 
   (b)   All other motor fuel sold for use in motor vehicles shall be sold
under other names or designations than gasoline.
(Ord. 1215, passed 2-26-1969)
§ 49-30 TESTS AND INSPECTIONS GENERALLY; CALIBRATION AND SEALING OF PUMPS.
   (a)   Regular tests for motor fuel or inspection, or both, of any liquid
measuring devices, commonly called pumps, storage tanks, motor truck tanks,
tank cars or equipment related to or used with the above set forth items, shall
be made whenever the Inspector of the Weights and Measures Division or the Fire
Chief or Fire Marshal deems tests or inspections, or both, necessary.
   (b)   The Inspector of the Weights and Measures Division, the Fire Chief or
Fire Marshal shall have the right, during reasonable hours, in accordance with
law, to enter the premises of any person who shall have motor fuel to sell or
offer for sale for the purpose of making any inspection or test, and shall have
the authority to order the stopping of selling or offering for sale any motor
fuel derived from crude oil and sold under the trade name of gasoline, not
meeting with the specifications required in this article.
   (c)   In addition to the above provisions, it shall be the duty of each
gasoline distributor to calibrate and seal, with a lead and wire seal, in such
manner that the meter can not be adjusted without mutilating the seal, each
gasoline and fuel oil pump which they service in the City. Such calibration and
sealing are to be done once each 90 days and the date thereof shall be
recorded. In these inspections, the tolerance permitted in the pump measuring
device shall not exceed seven cubic inches for a five-gallon test.
(Ord. 1215, passed 2-26-1969; Ord. 1220, passed 2-26-1969)
§ 49-31 ACCUMULATION OF WATER OR SLUDGE IN STORAGE TANKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this article to allow such an accumulation of
water or sludge in the bottom of storage tanks from which inflammable liquids
are sold, either wholesale or retail, that such liquids when drawn up by the
pump or other device will be contaminated by the water or sludge.
(Ord. 1215, passed 2-26-1969)
§ 49-32 BLENDING OF GASOLINE; ADVERTISING UNTRUE BOILING POINT PROHIBITED.
   No person, except refiners, shall mix or blend any motor fuel sold under the
trade name of gasoline with any other fluid and offer the same for sale, or
offer or advertise any other fluid for sale as motor fuel under the trade name
or description of gasoline which does not conform to the specifications fixed
in this article, or shall advertise or display an untrue boiling point where
one is required.
(Ord. 1215, passed 2-26-1969)
§ 49-33 CONSTRUCTION AND LOCATION OF PUMPS.
   Any liquid measuring device, commonly called a “pump,” used in the sale of
motor fuel shall be so constructed and located as to accurately and plainly
indicated to the buyer from any position he or she may reasonably be expected
to assume, the true amount of motor fuel delivered during every transaction.
The indicating means and its position shall be satisfactory to the Inspector of
Weights and Measures.
(Ord. 1215, passed 2-26-1969)
§ 49-34 DELIVERY OF FUEL TO VEHICLE WITH MOTOR RUNNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell any motor fuel for delivery into the tank of any motor
vehicle within the City while the engine is running.
(Ord. 1215, passed 2-26-1969)
CHAPTER 50: ZONING *
Section
Article I. In General
   
50-1   Definitions
   
50-2   Interpretation and purpose of chapter
   
50-3   Construction of chapter
   
50-3.1   Severability
   
50-3.2   Construction of conditions and limitations
   
50-4   Districts established
   
50-5   Conformity of buildings and land
   
50-6   Compliance with the height, yard and occupancy requirements
   
50-7   Use of yard, court or open space to fulfill requirements of more than
one building
   
50-8   Standards for heights, areas, yards and the like
   
50-8.1   Appearance standards
   
50-8.2   Interim regulations pending adoption or urban renewal plans
   
50-8.3   Site plan review
   
50-8.4   Building Official to act within 15 days
   
50-9   Zoning certificate — required; issuance; construction or excavation
permits
   
50-10   Same — application
   
50-11   Same — actions by Building Inspector
   
50-12   Same — fees
   
50-13   Certificate of occupancy
   
50-14   Set back from Saginaw Street
   
50-15   Enforcement of chapter; compliance with chapter in issuance of permits
and the like
   
50-16   Institution of proceedings by City to correct violations of chapter
Article II. A-1 Single-Family Low Density District
   
50-17   Principal permitted uses
   
50-18   Principal conditional uses
   
50-19   Principal accessory uses
   
50-20   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-20.1   Required conditions
   
50-20.2   Prohibited uses
Article III. A-2 Single-Family Medium Density District
   
50-21   Principal permitted uses
   
50-22   Principal conditional uses
   
50-23   Principal accessory uses
   
50-24   Accessory conditional use
   
50-24.1   Required conditions
   
50-24.2   Prohibited uses
Article IV. B Two-Family District
   
50-25   Principal permitted uses
   
50-26   Principal conditional uses
   
50-27   Principal accessory uses
   
50-27.1   Required uses
   
50-27.2   Prohibited uses
   
50-28   Accessory conditional uses
Article IV.I. B-1 Townhouse District
   
50-28.1   Principal permitted uses
   
50-28.2   Principal conditional uses
   
50-28.3   Principal accessory uses
   
50-28.4   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-28.5   Prohibited uses
   
50-28.6   Required conditions
Article V. C-1 Multifamily Walk-Up Apartment District
   
50-29   Principal permitted uses
   
50-30   Principal conditional uses
   
50-31   Principal accessory uses
   
50-32   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-32.1   Required conditions
   Article VI. C-2 Multifamily High Density Apartment District
   
50-33   Principal permitted uses
   
50-34   Principal conditional uses
   
50-35   Permitted accessory uses
   
50-36   Conditional accessory uses
   
50-36.1   Required conditions
   
50-36.2   Prohibited uses
Article VII. D-1 Office District
   
50-37   Purpose
   
50-38   Principal permitted uses
   
50-39   Principal accessory uses
   
50-40   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-40.1   Location of mechanical amusement devices
Article VIII. D-2 Neighborhood Business District
   
50-41   Purpose
   
50-42   Principal permitted uses
   
50-43   Permitted accessory use
   
50-44   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-44.1   Prohibited uses
   
50-45   Required conditions
Article IX. D-3 Community Business District
   
50-46   Purpose
   
50-47   Principal permitted uses
   
50-48   Principal accessory uses
   
50-49   Required conditions
Article X. D-4 Metropolitan Business District
   
50-50   Purpose
   
50-51   Principal permitted uses
   
50-52   Parking structures and lots
   
50-53   Principal accessory uses
   
50-54   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-55   Prohibited uses
   
50-56   Required conditions
Article XI. D-5 Metropolitan Commercial-Service District
   
50-57   Purpose
   
50-58   Principal permitted uses
   
50-59   Principal conditional uses
   
50-60   Principal accessory uses
   
50-61   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-62   Required conditions
Article XII. D-6 General and Highway Commercial-Service District
   
50-63   Purpose
   
50-64   Principal permitted uses
   
50-65   Principal conditional uses
   
50-66   Principal accessory uses
   
50-67   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-68   Required conditions
Article XIII. E Heavy Commercial-Limited Manufacturing District
   
50-69   Purpose
   
50-70   Principal permitted uses
   
50-71   Principal conditional uses
   
50-72   Principal accessory uses
   
50-73   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-74   Prohibited uses
   
50-75   Required conditions
Article XIV. F Intermediate Manufacturing District
   
50-76   Purpose
   
50-77   Principal permitted uses
   
50-78   Permitted accessory uses
   
50-79   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-80   Prohibited uses
   
50-81   Required conditions
Article XV. G Heavy Manufacturing District
   
50-82   Purpose
   
50-83   Principal permitted uses
   
50-84   Uses permitted subject to distance requirements
   
50-85   Permitted accessory uses
   
50-86   Accessory conditional uses
   
50-87   Prohibited uses
   
50-88   Required conditions
Article XV-A. P Parking District
   
50-88.1   Purpose
   
50-88.2   Principal permitted use
   
50-88.3   Required conditions
Article XVI. Generally Applicable Standards
   
50-89   Designated; Tables A and B
Article XVII. General Provisions Concerning Residence Districts
   
50-90   Conversion of dwellings
   
50-90.1   State-licensed residential facilities
   
50-91   Rear dwellings
   
50-92   Transitional uses in residence districts
   
50-93   Yard requirements along zoning boundary line in less restricted
district
   
50-94   Accessory uses in residence districts
   
50-94.1   Satellite television antennas as accessory uses
   
50-95   Lot area exception
   
50-96   Average depth of front yards
   
50-97   Computation of rear yard depth and side yard width
   
50-98   Side yard modifications
   
50-99   Projection of architectural features
Article XVIII. Community Development Projects
   
50-100   Submission of plans for development of certain tracts
   
50-101   Standards for plan
Article XIX. Dwelling Groups
   
50-102   Standards generally
Article XX. Trailers and Trailer Parks, Motels and Motor Hotels
   
50-103   General regulations
   
50-104   Enlargements or extensions
   
50-105   Parking or occupying trailer or mobile home or recreation vehicle
outside of approved trailer park, mobile home park prohibited; exceptions
   
50-106   Application for establishment of trailer park or mobile home park
   
50-107   Trailer park or mobile home park design requirements
Article XXI. Integrated Neighborhood and Community Shopping Centers
   
50-108   Submission of preliminary plan; minimum areas
   
50-109   Time for starting and completing construction
   
50-110   General standards for plan
   
50-111   Permitted uses
   
50-112   Design requirements
   
50-113   Final development plan
   
50-114   Recommendations to City Council
   
50-115   Rezoning
   
50-116   Adjustments in plan following approval
Article XXII. Planned Shopping Area Extension
   
50-117   Purpose of article
   
50-118   Submission of preliminary plan
   
50-119   General requirements and standards
Article XXIII. Planned Industrial Districts
   
50-120   Submission of preliminary plan
   
50-121   General conditions and requirements
   
50-122   Permitted uses
   
50-123   Prohibited uses
   
50-124   General design standards and improvement requirements
   
50-125   Final development plan
   
50-126   Recommendations to City Council
   
50-127   Rezoning
   
50-128   Adjustments following approval of plan
Article XXIV. Height and Yard Modifications
   
50-129   Height limitations not applicable
   
50-130   Minimum height requirements
   
50-131   Exceptions to height requirements for D-1, D-2, D-3 and D-6 districts
   
50-131.1   Yard modifications in commercial and manufacturing districts
Article XXV. Off-Street Parking and Loading Regulations
   
50-132   Off-street loading spaces generally
   
50-133   Off-street parking spaces generally
   
50-134   Location of parking lots or structures
   
50-135   Units of measurement
   
50-136   Additions and enlargements to uses; mixed occupancies; requirements
for non-specified uses
   
50-137   Collective providing of off-street parking spaces
   
50-138   Joint use of facilities
   
50-139   Schedule of required off-street parking spaces
   
50-140   Development and maintenance of parking areas
   
50-141   Minimum distances and setbacks; surfacing and lighting of parking
areas
   
50-142   Modification of requirements of article
Article XXV-A. Signs Along Freeways
   
50-142.1   Definitions
   
50-142.2   Signs prohibited in protected areas
   
50-142.3   Certain signs permitted
   
50-142.4   Nonconforming signs
Article XXV-B. General Sign Regulations
   
50-142.5   Definitions
   
50-142.6   General provisions
   
50-142.7   Type 1, temporary signs
   
50-142.8   Type 2, nameplates
   
50-142.9   Type 3, projecting and vertical signs
   
50-142.10   Type 4, column signs
   
50-142.11   Type 5, roof signs
   
50-142.12   Type 6, poster boards
   
50-142.13   Type 7, portable signs
   
50-142.13.1 Mobile/trailer signs
   
50-142.14   Type 8, special signs
   
50-142.15   Maintenance of signs; privilege fees
Article XXVI. Nonconforming Uses, Buildings and Lots
   
50-143   Intent
   
50-144   Authority to continue
   
50-145   Nonconforming uses or structures
   
50-146   Nonconforming lots
   
50-147   Nonconforming site requirements
   
50-148   Site plan review required for change of use
Article XXVII. Changes and Amendments
   
50-149   Methods of making generally
   
50-150   Application procedure
   
50-151   Planning Commission — action
   
50-151.1   Same — site plan review for special land use requests
   
50-151.2   Notification when land use is significantly affected by an
administrative decision
   
50-152   Action by City Council
   
50-153   Zoning change fees
   
50-154   Zoning certificate or building permit not to be issued while zoning
map change pending
Article XXVIII. Board of Appeals
   
50-155   Composition; appointment and term of members
   
50-155.1   Causes for removal from Board
   
50-156   Organization; election of Chairperson; adoption of rules; meetings;
records
   
50-157   Quorum; votes required for action
   
50-158   Assistance of other City departments
   
50-159   Applications; appeals, hearings and the like
   
50-159.1   Extended appeal of an administrative decision
   
50-160   Powers generally
Article XXIX. Special Regulated Uses
   
50-161   Purpose
   
50-162   Application to establish a special regulated use
   
50-163   Locational standards — relationship to similar uses
   
50-164   Locational standards — relationship to residential area and other uses
   
50-165   Special additional requirements
   
50-165.5   Standards for wireless telecommunication facilities and wireless
telecommunication antenna and towers
   
50-166   Reserved
   
50-167   Conditions and limitations
   
50-168   Reserved
   
50-169   Zoning districts requirements for special regulated uses
Article XXX. Flood Hazard Management
   
50-170   Short title
   
50-171   Definitions
   
50-172   Flood insurance study adopted
   
50-173   Establishment of development permit
   
50-174   Designation of Local Administrator
   
50-175   Variance procedure
   
50-176   Conditions for variances
   
50-177   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
50-178   Floodway
   
50-179   Penalties for noncompliance
   
50-180   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
50-181   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Article XXXI. Enforcement
   
50-182   Penalties
   Appendix: Compiled Illustrations
Statutory reference:
   Authorizing City to zone, MSA § 5.2832
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
§ 50-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them by this section.
   ACCESSORY AMUSEMENT USE. Any nonresidential establishment in which three or
fewer mechanical amusement devices (excluding pool tables and billiard tables)
for hire are located, as regulated in §§
12-24 through
12-37 of this Code of ordinances.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building or portion of a building subordinate to a
main building on the same lot that is occupied by or devoted exclusively to an
accessory use.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached structure on the same lot as, and
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use which is clearly incidental to or customarily carried
on in connection with the principal use on the same lot or on a different lot
to which the use has been extended.
   ACREAGE. Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided or
platted.
   ADDITION.  An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
   ADULT.  A person having arrived at the legal age of adulthood as defined by
Michigan law.
   ADULT DAY CARE or DAY SERVICES CENTER. A facility that provides social or
recreational programs, health services, supervision or other care for
functionally or cognitively impaired adults principally during daytime hours,
not more than 32 hours a day or more than six days per week. This definition
includes adult day health care centers but does not include nursing homes,
homes for the aged, hospitals or other facilities that routinely provide
medical treatment or overnight care.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USES.  Any use that provides services, materials or
entertainment to adults involving specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas. ADULT ENTERTAINMENT USES include, but are not limited to, the
following.
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that devotes more than an
incidental portion of its floor area to the sale or display of pornography.
Establishments that display, sell or rent such material within an enclosed area
that is accessible only to adults and that comprises no more than 5% of the
floor area shall not be included within this definition.
      (2)   ADULT MOVIE THEATER OR ARCADE. A building used for presenting
pornographic motion pictures or visual images by any means or device.
      (3)   ADULT NIGHTCLUB. Any establishment featuring live performances by
nude or semi-nude dancers, entertainers, waitstaff or other persons.
      (6)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. Any establishment that sells devices
designed for sexual stimulation.
      (7)   ADULT PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment that
provides massages, baths, tattoos or similar services, or that arranges,
solicits or provides escorts, dates, models, unlicensed therapists, companions
or entertainers, either on or off the premises. The following are not included
within the definition of an ADULT PERSONAL SERVICES ESTABLISHMENT:
         a.   Establishments that routinely provide any such services by a
licensed or certified health professional or massage therapist acting within
the standards and scope of a generally recognized health profession or
organization;
         b.   Public or non-profit organizations such as schools, parks and
community recreation centers;
         c.   Studios, clubs and gymnasiums offering continuing instruction in
martial or performing arts or providing facilities for organized athletic
activities to the general public;
         d.   Hospitals, nursing homes, medical clinics and medical offices;
and
         e.   Barber shops, beauty parlors, health spas and salons that
administer massage only to the neck, shoulder, scalp and face or by a licensed
or certified therapist acting within the standards of a generally recognized
licensing or certifying organization.
      (8)   RESTRICTED ADULT BUSINESS. Any adult entertainment use that is
customarily open only to adults.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY. A licensed establishment that provides foster
care to adults, including aged, mentally ill, developmentally disabled or
physically handicapped adults who require supervision on an ongoing basis but
who do not require continuous nursing care. ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY does not
include nursing homes, homes for the aged, hospitals, alcohol or substance
abuse rehabilitation centers, or residential centers for persons released from
or assigned to a correctional facility.
      (1)   ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME. A private residence with the
approved capacity to receive six or fewer adults to be provided with foster
care for five or more days a week and for two or more consecutive weeks. The
ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME licensee must be a member of the household and an
occupant of the residence.
      (2)   ADULT FOSTER CARE LARGE GROUP HOME. An adult foster care facility
with approved capacity to receive at least 13 but not more than 20 adults to be
provided supervision, personal care and protection, in addition to room and
board, for 24 hours a day, five or more days a week and for two or more
consecutive weeks for compensation.
      (3)   ADULT FOSTER CARE SMALL GROUP HOME. An adult foster care facility
with the approved capacity to receive 12 or fewer adults who are provided
supervision, personal care and protection, in addition to room and board, for
24 hours a day, five or more days a week and for two or more consecutive weeks
for compensation.
   ALLEY. Any roadway, other than a city street, affording a secondary means of
access to abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction or use: any
change in the structural members of a structure, such as walls or partitions,
columns, beams or girders.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms arranged and intended as a dwelling unit
for a single family or a group of individuals living together as a single
housekeeping unit: typically intended for rental use or as an individual unit
in a collection of units cooperatively owned by its occupants.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building used or arranged for rental occupancy or co-
operatively owned by its occupants, having three or more attached single-family
or single-dwelling units, with a yard, compound, service or utilities in
common.
   APARTMENT, EFFICIENCY. A dwelling unit in a multifamily building, consisting
of not more than one habitable room, together with kitchen or kitchenette and
sanitary facilities.
   APARTMENT HOTEL. An apartment house which furnishes services for the use of
its tenants which are ordinarily furnished by hotels.
   ARCADE OR AMUSEMENT CENTER. Any establishment that contains four or more
mechanical amusement devices and whose principal use is providing entertainment
through such devices.
   ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES. Architectural features of a building or a structure
include, but are not limited to, cornices, eaves, gutters, belt courses, sills,
lintels, bay windows, chimneys and decorative ornaments.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for the display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. A structure or use devoted to the general repair,
rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles or engines, including collision
service; body, frame or fender straightening and repair; or overall painting
and undercoating.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. A structure or use providing limited motor vehicle
repair and service, such as minor dent repair; detailing; lubrication; radiator
or fuel system flushing, and installation of motor vehicle parts and
accessories such as spark plugs, batteries, tires, mufflers and belts.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION or FILLING STATION. A place where gasoline or
other motor fuel, lubricants, tires, batteries, accessories and supplies for
operating and equipping motor vehicles, including greasing and oiling, and, if
within an enclosed building, incidental brake, muffler, and similar services,
but not including any operation named under “automobile repair, major.”
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING. The dismantling or disassembling of used motor vehicles
or trailers or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially
dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATION. A use which is subordinate to the principal use
of a dwelling unit as a single-family dwelling unit and a use in which
transient guests are provided a sleeping room and a meal or meals in return for
payment for a limited time.
   BOARD. The City of Flint Board of Zoning Appeals.
   BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE.  A dwelling or part thereof where meals or
lodging or both, are provided for compensation. A BOARDING HOUSE is to be
distinguished from a hotel, motel, bed and breakfast establishment, or a
convalescent, nursing or group home.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
property. When such a structure is divided into separate parts by one or more
unpierced walls extending from the group up, each part is deemed a separate
building, except as regards minimum side yard requirements as provided by this
chapter.
   BUILDING FRONT LINE. A line that coincides with the face of the building
nearest the front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and enclosed
porches, but does not include steps. This line shall be parallel to the front
lot line and measured as a straight line between the intersection points with
the side yard. For the purposes of this section, the FRONT LINE shall be the
front setback line.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established
finished grade to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the
deck line of mansard roofs: and to the average height between eaves and ridge
for gable, hip and gambrel roofs. Where a building is located on a terrace, the
height shall be measured from the average finished ground level of the terrace
at the building wall.
   BULK STATION.  A place where crude petroleum and petrochemical liquids such
as gasoline, naphtha, benzene, benzal and kerosene are stored for wholesale
purposes and where the aggregate capacity of all storage tanks is more than
6,000 gallons.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human dead,
including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries, if operated in
connection with, and within the boundaries of the CEMETERY.
   CHANGE IN USE. A use different from the previous use of a site. A different
use shall first be determined on the basis of the zoning districts in which the
respective uses are first permitted, either as a principal use permitted
outright or a principal conditional use. A further difference of use shall be
determined on the basis of uses listed in the subheadings of each zoning
district, such as retail services, eating and drinking places, automotive
services. Changes within subheadings are not considered a CHANGE IN USE. If an
existing structure is vacant, the last occupant shall determine use.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility, other than a private residence, receiving one
or more preschool or school age children for care for periods less than 24
hours a day, and where the parents or guardians are not immediately available
to the child. The term includes a facility that provides care for not less than
two consecutive weeks, regardless of the number of hours of care per day. The
term also includes any facility referred to as day care center, day nursery,
nursery school, drop-in center and parent cooperative preschool. A CHILD CARE
CENTER does not include a Sunday school, Vacation Bible School, or religious
instructional class operated by a religious organization where children are in
attendance for not greater than three hours per day for an indefinite period or
not greater than eight hours per day for less than one month per year.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of persons in
need of medical or surgical attention, but who are not kept overnight on the
premises. See also VETERINARY CLINIC.
   CLUB. A nonprofit association that maintains, owns, hires or leases a
building or space in a building or which furnishes to its members and/or guests
any premises or place where members and/or guests may engage in the drinking of
alcoholic liquor for any fee, cover charge, donation or other charge that may
reasonably construed as consideration. Also, the building owned or leased by
such a group.
   COLLECTOR STREET.  A street that provides both land access and traffic
movement in the local district.
   CO-LOCATION.  The ability to attach wireless antenna to existing structures
such as towers, rooftops, utility lines, church spires and the like.
   COMMISSION.  The City of Flint Planning Commission.
   COMMON LAND. A parcel or parcels of land together with the improvements
thereon, the use, maintenance and enjoyment of which are intended to be shared
by the owners and occupants of the individual building units in a planned unit
development.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any residential development which conforms to
the requirements and standards of the community development project regulations
of this chapter.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A use that, because of special requirements or
characteristics, may be allowed in a particular zoning district only after
review by the Planning Commission and granting of conditional use approval with
such conditions as necessary to make the use compatible with other uses
permitted in the same district or vicinity.
   CONFORMING.  In compliance with the regulations of the pertinent zoning
district.
   CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME.  A building where infirm or incapacitated
persons are furnished lodging, shelter, meals, nursing, personal care or
limited medical attention on a regular basis for compensation. Such a facility
provides limited assistance but not the degree of care and treatment provided
by a hospital or skilled nursing center.
   COUNTY.  The County of Genesee. Michigan.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot or parcel with a building
and bounded on two or more sides with walls of the building.
   COURT, INNER. Any court other than an outer court.
   COURT, OUTER. A court which extends directly to and opens for its full width
on a street or other permanent space, or on a required yard, at least 20 feet
wide.
   COVERAGE. The part of a lot or parcel of land occupied by one or more
structures.
   CUL DE SAC. A street terminating at one end with a turning radius.
   DAY CARE CENTER. See CHILD CARE CENTER.
   DEVELOPMENT.  The construction of a new structure on a lot, the relocation
of an existing structure on a lot, or the use of open land for a new use.
   DIRECT ACCESS.  Access not requiring trespass over adjacent property or
rights-of-way.
   DISTRICT. An area of the City with specific zoning regulations as defined in
this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN. See RESTAURANT.
   DWELLING.  Any building or portion thereof used for human habitation,
exclusive of tents, campers, trailers, portable buildings and mobile homes or
other buildings without a permanent foundation.
      (1)   ATTACHED. A dwelling unit attached to two or more dwelling units by
common vertical walls.
      (2)   DETACHED. A dwelling unit that is not attached to any other
dwelling unit by any means.
      (3)   SEMI-DETACHED. A dwelling unit attached to one other dwelling unit
by a common vertical wall, with each dwelling unit located on a separate lot.
Also commonly known as a DUPLEX.
      (4)   STACKED RANCH. A two-story building divided horizontally and
vertically by common party walls and floors into eight or fewer single-story
dwelling units, each unit having an independent pedestrian entrance either
directly to the outside or through a common vestibule, and integral individual
garages.
      (5)   TOWNHOUSE. A building divided vertically by common walls into four
to 12 attached dwelling units with independent entrances to both the front yard
and the back yard or garage, and having no unit located above another unit.
      (6)   MULTIPLEX. A building divided vertically into three or more
separate dwelling units having independent entrances either directly to the
outside or through a common vestibule.
   DWELLING GROUP. A group of two or more detached dwellings located on a
parcel of land in one ownership and having any yard or court in common.
   DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A building containing three or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for residential use containing
not more than one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing not more than two dwelling
units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms connected together with kitchen and
sanitary facilities designed for residential use by one family or housekeeping
unit and physically separated from any other room or dwelling unit in the same
structure.
   EASEMENT.  That portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner of the property.
   ENVIRONMENTAL AREA. An area that the Department of Natural Resources has
determined is necessary for the preservation and maintenance of wildlife,
water, soil, open space or forest resources.
   ERECT.  To build, construct, alter, reconstruct or otherwise perform any
physical operation intended to result in the placement of a structure on the
premises, including excavation, backfill, drainage and the like.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The construction or maintenance of gas, electrical,
steam, sewer, water, or other utility systems, equipment and accessories,
whether underground or overhead, that are reasonably necessary for furnishing
adequate utility services to the public.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any business or enterprise that utilizes any building,
structure, premises, parcel, place or area.
   EXCEPTION.  A modification of the requirements of this chapter, specifically
permitted herein, which is necessary to avoid undue hardship in the practical
application of the provisions of this chapter. An EXCEPTION is not a variance.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   An individual or group of two or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, together with foster children and servants of the
principal occupants, with not more than two additional unrelated persons who
are domiciled together as a single, domestic, housekeeping unit in a dwelling
unit.
      (2)   A collective number of individuals domiciled together in one
dwelling unit having demonstrable and recognizable bond characteristic of a
cohesive unit, whose relationship is of a continuing nontransient domestic
character and who live together as a functional family in a single nonprofit
housekeeping unit. This definition shall not include any society, club,
fraternity, sorority, association, lodge, coterie, organization or group of
students or other individuals whose domestic relationship is of a transitory or
seasonal nature or for an anticipated limited duration of a school term or
other similar determinable period.
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A private home in which one but not more than six
minor children are received for care and supervision for periods less than 24
hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, excepting children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. FAMILY
DAY CARE HOMES include homes that give care to an unrelated minor child for
more than four weeks during a calendar year.
   FENCE.  A wall composed of posts carrying boards, rails, pickets or wire, or
to iron structures consisting of a vertical or horizontal bars or of open work.
   FENCE, DECORATIVE. An open or semi-open fence, ornamental in nature, not
intended to provide a permanent barrier to passage or for screening. DECORATIVE
FENCING does not include chain link fencing.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  The official report of the Federal Insurance
Administration providing flood profiles, the flood insurance rate maps, and the
water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the horizontal area of the several floors of a
building measured from the interior faces of the exterior walls for residential
dwellings. The FLOOR AREA measurement shall not include area of basements,
stairways, unfinished attics, attached garages, breezeways, enclosed or
unenclosed porches, or utility rooms. For commercial uses, the FLOOR AREA
measurement shall not include areas used or intended to be used principally for
storage or processing; hallways, stairwells; elevator shafts; floor space used
for mechanical equipment or utilities; attic space having headroom of seven
feet, ten inches or less; interior balconies, mezzanines; or sanitary
facilities in addition. Any space devoted to off-street parking or loading
shall not be considered FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the horizontal areas of the several floors of
the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating two buildings. The GROSS FLOOR AREA of a
building shall not include the basement floor area except when more than half
of the basement is above grade.
   FLOOR AREA, GROUND.  The horizontal area of the first floor of a building
other than a cellar or basement.
   FRONT, LOT. The side of a lot that abuts a public street. For corner lots,
the front is the shortest side that abuts a street. Where buildings exist on
the lot, the LOT FRONT may be established by the orientation of the buildings.
Otherwise the principal entrance shall determine the front of the lot.
   FRONTAGE. The distance along the boundary between any lot or parcel of
property and a highway, public right-of-way or waterway.
   GARAGE. A structure or use devoted to the storage or care of motor vehicles.
A commercial GARAGE is a structure or use where motor vehicles are equipped for
operation, repaired, or stored for remuneration, hire or sale. This definition
excludes a structure or use principally devoted to the storage of motor
vehicles for scrap or salvage purposes or for sale as scrap or salvage
material.
   GRADE.  The highest point of the ground contacting any portion of the
basement or foundation of a building.
   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. A private home in which seven but not more than 12
minor children are received for care and supervision for periods of less than
24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, excepting children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. GROUP
DAY CARE HOMES include homes that give care to an unrelated minor child for
more than four weeks during a year.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY.  Any facility or institution that provides mental or
physical health care services, including diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation
or preventive care and that allows overnight stays.
   HOME FOR THE AGED. A supervised personal care facility, other than a hotel,
adult foster care facility, hospital, nursing home or county medical care
facility, that provides room, board and supervised personal care to 21 or more
unrelated, nontransient individuals 60 years of age or older. HOME FOR THE AGED
includes a supervised personal care facility for 20 or fewer individuals 60
years of age or older if the facility is operated in conjunction with and as a
distinct part of a licensed nursing home.
   HOME OCCUPATION or BUSINESS. An occupation that is traditionally and
customarily carried on within a dwelling and that is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling as a residence.
   HOSPITAL. An institution for the diagnosis, treatment or care of aged, sick
or injured people. The term HOSPITAL shall include sanatoriums but not nursing
homes, rest homes or convalescent homes.
   HOTEL.  A building or part of a building, with a common entrance or
entrances, in which dwelling or rooming units are used primarily for transient
occupancy, and in which one or more of the following services are offered: maid
service, furnishing of linen, telephone, secretarial or desk service, and
bellboy service. A HOTEL may include a restaurant or cocktail lounge, public
banquet halls, ballrooms or meeting rooms as accessory uses.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A dwelling unit organized as a single entity in which the
members share common kitchen facilities and have access to all parts of the
dwelling unit.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A planned industrial development on a tract of land
containing an internal road network suitable for trucks and employee traffic
and supplied with water, sewer, electric and natural gas lines.
   JUNK.  Any refuse, waste material or item that has ceased to have value for
its originally intended use, including salvaged material, metal, machinery,
motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
   JUNKYARD. A place where waste, discharged or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including auto
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building and not including vehicle tow yards and
impound lots, pawn shops and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage
of used furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable condition or
salvaged materials incidental to manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises on which four or more dogs or cats over
four months of age are kept.
   LOADING SPACE.  An off-street space within a building or on the same lot
with a building or group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading and unloading merchandise or materials, such space having
direct and unobstructed access to a street or alley.
   LODGE. See CLUB.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended for a single principal use together with
accessory uses permitted in this chapter and having determined by lot lines.
   LOT AREA. The total area included within lot lines. Where a lot line lies in
part of a street, the LOT AREA shall not include that part of the lot in the
street proper.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot located at the intersection of two streets or a lot
bounded on two sides by a curving street, any two chords of which form an angle
of 135 degrees or less as measured on the lot side. The point of intersection
of the street lot lines is the corner. In the case of a CORNER LOT with a
curved street line, the corner is that point on the street lot line nearest to
the point of intersection of the tangents described above.
   LOT COVERAGE.  The part or percent of the lot area occupied by structures.
   LOT DEFINITIONS. See Appendix: Compiled Illustrations,
Illustration 50-1, “Typical lot definitions,” at the end of this chapter.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal straight-line distance between the front and rear
lot lines, measured along the median between side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any interior lot having frontage on two approximately
parallel streets, as distinguished from a corner lot. See LOT, THROUGH.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot not meeting minimum frontage requirements and where access
to the public road is by a narrow, private right-of-way or driveway.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. The shortest lot boundary abutting a public street.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. In the case of irregularly shaped lots, a line ten feet in
length parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line that is
entirely within the lot shall be considered the REAR LOT LINE for the purpose
of determining required rear yard spacing.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line not a front or rear lot line. A side
lot line separating a lot from a street is a SIDE STREET LOT LINE. A side lot
line separating a lot from another lot or lots is an INTERIOR SIDE LOT LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map on file with the County Register of Deeds; a lot which actually
exists in a subdivision plat as shown on the records of the County Register of
Deeds; or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of
which has been so recorded. Whenever an owner uses two or more recorded lots as
a single building site, or combines two or more lots on any recorded plat in
the records of the Assessor or Treasurer, the combination of lots shall be
deemed to be a single LOT OF RECORD for the purposes of this chapter.
   LOT, THROUGH. Any interior lot having frontage on two approximately parallel
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of two or
more double frontage lots, all yards of the lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered front yards, and setbacks shall be provided as required in this
chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal straight-line distance between the side lot lines,
measured along the median between the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT, ZONING.
      (1)   A single tract of land, located within a single block, which, at
the time of filing for a zoning permit, is designated by its owner or developer
as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single
ownership or control.
      (2)   A ZONING LOT shall satisfy this chapter with respect to area, size,
dimensions and frontage as required in the district in which the zoning lot is
located. A ZONING LOT therefore may not coincide with a lot of record as filed
with the County Register of Deeds, but may include one or more lots of record.
Two or more adjacent lots may only be treated as a ZONING LOT if they cannot be
combined into one tax parcel by the City.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN. The major street plan for the City as adopted by the
Planning Commission, establishing the location and official right-of-way width
of principal streets and highways in the City.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. A large volume traffic way intended for traffic from the
immediate municipal area and the regions beyond.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory built single-family structure that meets the
National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act, commonly
known as the HUD (United States Department of Housing and Urban Development)
Code. See MOBILE HOME.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. See MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MARGINAL ACCESS DRIVE. A street that is parallel to and adjacent to a
primary street and that is designed to provide access to abutting properties so
that these properties are somewhat sheltered from the effects of the through
traffic on the primary street and so that the flow of traffic on the primary
street is not impeded by direct driveway access from a large number of abutting
properties.
   MEZZANINE. An intermediate level or levels in any story with an aggregate
floor area of not more than one-third of the floor area of the room or space in
which it is located.
   MINI STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings where separate,
locking units are leased to customers for the storage of personal property.
   MOBILE HOME. Any structure built on a chassis and designed to be used
without a permanent foundation as a dwelling when connected to the required
utilities and which is, or is intended to be, attached to the ground to another
structure, or to a utility system on the same premises for more than 30
consecutive days, but does not include a recreational vehicle.
      (1)   Type A.  New mobile homes certified as meeting HUD mobile home
construction and safety standards.
      (2)   Type B. Used mobile homes certified as meeting HUD mobile home
construction and safety standards or standards contained under State of
Michigan Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, being MCLA §§ 125.1501 et seq.,
and MSA §§ 5.2949(1) et seq., as amended, found on inspection to be in good
condition.
      (3)   Type C. Used mobile homes certified as meeting HUD mobile home
construction and safety standards or standards contained under Act 230 of the
Public Acts of 1972, being MCLA §§ 125.1501 et seq., and MSA §§ 5.2949(1) et
seq., as amended, found on inspection to be in poor condition and unsafe and/or
unfit for residential occupancy.
      (4)   Type D.  Used mobile homes not certified as meeting HUD mobile home
construction and safety standards or not meeting standards contained under
State of Michigan Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, being MCLA §§ 125.1501 et
seq., and MSA §§ 5.2949(1) et seq., as amended.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  Any parcel of land or part thereof used or offered for
use as a location for three or more mobile homes on a continual, non-
recreational basis together with any building, structure, enclosure, street,
equipment or facility used or intended for use incident to the occupancy of a
mobile home.
   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling manufactured in a factory in separate units that
comply with applicable State construction codes and that are designed for
transport by separate carrier to the build site for assembly on a permanent
foundation. MODULAR HOMES shall be considered site-built homes.
   MOTEL. A series of attached, semi-detached or detached rental units with
individual entrances providing convenient access to off-street parking areas
and that are rented for overnight lodging primarily to the public traveling by
motor vehicle.
   MOTOR HOME. Any vehicle built and licensable for use on public streets and
highways that has been constructed or adapted for use as a dwelling or sleeping
place for one or more persons. See TRAVEL TRAILER.
   MOTOR HOME PARK. A park designed specifically to accommodate the use of
motor homes and travel trailers as dwellings. Also commonly referred to as a
TRAILER PARK or RV PARK.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof lawfully existing at
the effective date of this chapter, that does not conform to the regulations of
the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. Any lot, outlot or parcel of land which, through a change
in the law, no longer conforms to the provisions of the zoning district in
which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which, through a change in the law, no
longer conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use that was valid when begun but which, through a
change in the law, no longer conforms to the regulations of the zoning district
in which it is carried on.
   NUISANCE. A thing or practice causing or having potential to cause annoyance
such as noise, dust, dirt, smoke, fly ash, odor, glare, fumes, flashes,
vibration, shock waves, heat, electronic or atomic radiation, effluent crowd
noise, traffic or trespass of persons or objects, whether or not the thing or
practice constitutes a legal nuisance subject to forcible abatement.
   NURSERY. A structure or use where live trees, shrubs or plants are grown,
tended or stored and offered for retail sale, including products used for
gardening or landscaping, but not including a structure or use principally for
the sale of fruits, vegetables or Christmas trees.
   NURSERY SCHOOL.  See CHILD CARE CENTER.
   NURSING HOME. A nursing facility that provides organized nursing care and
medical treatment to seven or more individuals suffering or recovering from
illness, injury or infirmity, including a County medical care facility, but
excluding a hospital or a facility created by Act 152 of the Public Acts of
1985, as amended, being MCLA §§ 36.1 to 36.12 of the Michigan Compiled Laws.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT OR FACILITY. A structure or use providing parking
spaces for more than five motor vehicles along with adequate drives and aisles
for maneuvering, as prescribed by the regulations of the zoning district in
which the off-street parking is located.
   OPEN AIR BUSINESS USE. Any retail business that sells goods that are
displayed or otherwise merchandised outside an enclosed building, including
automobile sales areas, nurseries, parking lot sales, camper sales and other
similar uses.
   OPEN FRONT STORE. An establishment designed to provide service to customers
beyond the walls of the building, not requiring the patron to enter the
building. The term OPEN FRONT STORE shall not include auto repair stations or
gas stations.
   OPEN SPACE. Any unoccupied space, open to the sky, on the same lot or parcel
of land as a building. Designated parking is not OPEN SPACE.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Any sign used to advertise a good, service or activity
that is not primarily produced or sold on the premises where the sign is
located.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced area of not less than 180 square feet
(nine feet by 20 feet), either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of
driveways or access drives, for the parking of a motor vehicle.
   PENNY ARCADE. Any nonresidential establishment in which four or more
mechanical amusement devices (excluding pool tables or billiard tables) for
hire are located, as regulated in §§
12-24 through
12-37 of this Code of ordinances.
   PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT. Any industrial development which conforms to
the requirements and standards of the planned industrial district regulations
of this chapter.
   PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER (INTE- GRATED NEIGHBORHOOD or COMMUNITY SHOPPING
CENTER). Any commercial develop- ment which conforms to the requirements and
standards of the integrated neighborhood or community shopping center
regulations of this chapter.
   PORNOGRAPHY. Any media that has more than an incidental portion of its
content depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” and that is intended to provide sexual
gratification or arousal.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  The main use to which the premises are devoted.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A road for ingress and egress to more than one parcel of
property that is not part of a subdivision created under State Act 288, Public
Acts of 1967, as amended.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Buildings that are financed largely by public funding and
are available for public use, as distinguished from buildings that are
government financed, but are intended for private use; e.g., public housing.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. Any facility other than a recreation area which is
maintained by public funds, including, but not limited to, libraries, museums,
administrative offices, and fire and police stations. This definition does not
include schools, community hospitals or any facility involving outdoor storage.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A person, firm, corporation, municipal or County department,
or council or commission duly authorized to furnish to the public, and that is
so furnishing, gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal, telegraph, telephone,
transportation or water under Federal, State or municipal regulations.
   RECREATION AREA. Any parcel of land, whether natural or improved, public or
private, designated solely for indoor or outdoor recreational activities.
   RECREATION FACILITY, PRIVATE. Any privately owned commercial recreation
facility, including golf courses, riding stables, race courses, bowling alleys,
clubs, lodges and other similar facilities.
   RECREATION FACILITY, PUBLIC. Any publicly owned and maintained recreation
facility available to the general public, with or without a fee.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle designed for use on streets and highways
that serves as temporary living quarters for recreational purposes, whether
self-propelled or attached to another vehicle, including motor homes, pickup
campers, travel trailers and tent trailers.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment whose principal business is the sale of foods,
desserts or beverages to customers in a ready-to-consume state.
      (1)   CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT. A restaurant where food and beverages are
served in disposable containers for consumption primarily off the premises.
      (2)   DINE-IN RESTAURANT. A restaurant where food and beverages are
served for consumption primarily within the restaurant building.
      (3)   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A restaurant designed to serve food and
beverages to customers within their motor vehicles for consumption on the
premises and outside the restaurant building.
      (4)   FAST FOOD RESTAURANT. A restaurant where food and beverages are
served in disposable containers for consumption either inside the restaurant
building or off the premises.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A street, alley or other thoroughfare or easement permanently
established for the passage of persons or vehicles.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. See MINI STORAGE FACILITY.
   SERVICE AREA. An outdoor area connected with a commercial use devoted to
loading and unloading operations and for the receipt and temporary storage of
goods, materials and equipment.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance a structure or any portion thereof must be
located from the lot lines.
   SIGN. Any outdoor structure or display whose principal purpose is to convey
a message or to identify the location of or direct attention to an object,
product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business. A SIGN
shall not include any display of official court or public notices, nor shall it
include the flag of a political unit or school.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  An area of land subject to a 1% or greater
chance of flooding in any given year as determined by the Federal Flood
Insurance Study.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock, female nipple and areola, and human male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely
covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse, sodomy, and fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals,
pubic region, buttock or female breast.
   STORY.  The portion of a building, included between the upper surface of a
floor and the upper surface of the floor above or the upper surface of the roof
rafters or ceiling joists if there is no floor above.
   STORY, FIRST. The lowest story or the ground story of any building the floor
of which is not more than 12 inches below the average contact ground level at
the exterior walls of the building; except, that any basement or cellar used
for residence purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker or his or her
family, shall be deemed the FIRST STORY.
   STORY, HALF. An uppermost story lying under a sloping roof having a floor
area of at least 200 square feet with a minimum head clearance of seven feet,
six inches.
   STREET. A public right-of-way, other than an alley, intended for travel by
motor vehicles, which is a principal means of access to abutting property.
   STREET LINE. The street right-of-way line.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including a building, the use of
which requires permanent location on the ground or attachment to something
having a permanent location on the ground.
   TELEVISION SATELLITE DISH. Any device capable of receiving television
signals from satellites.
   TEMPORARY BUILDINGS, USES. A building, structure or use permitted to exist
during construction of the main structure or use or during special events.
   TOURIST HOME. A building or part thereof, other than a hotel, boarding
house, lodging house or motel, where lodging is provided by a resident family
in its home for compensation, mainly for transients.
   TRAILER PARK. See MOTOR HOME PARK and MOBILE HOME PARK.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle designed for towing on streets and highways that
is used as a temporary dwelling, office or business.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building or structure is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which either land or a building or structure is,
or may be, occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A deviation from the zoning provisions of this chapter granted
when strict enforcement would cause undue hardship or practical difficulties
owing to circumstances unique to the property for which the variance is
granted. A VARIANCE is not an exception.
   VETERINARY CLINIC.  A building where animals are examined and treated by a
veterinarian.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. All structures and equipment involved
in transmitting and receiving telecommunications signals from mobile
communication sources, such as private and commercial mobile radio service
facilities, personal communication services (PCS) towers, and cellular
telephone towers. Not included are AM/FM radio antennas, television antennas,
satellite dishes and licensed amateur radio facilities.
      (1)   ANTENNA. The device through which wireless telecommunication
signals are transmitted or received, as authorized by the Federal
Communications Commission.
      (2)   EQUIPMENT SHELTER. The structure in which the equipment for
receiving and transmitting wireless communications is housed.
      (3)   STEALTH DESIGN. Camouflaging telecommunication facilities to
minimize their visibility and blend them in with their surroundings.
      (4)   TOWER. A structure intended to support telecommunications
transmission and receiving equipment such as monopoles, freestanding lattice
structures and guyed lattice structures.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, on a lot with a building,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard opposite the front yard extending across the full width
of the lot, the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the
rear lot line and the nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width
of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the side lot line and the
nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE, LEAST WIDTH, HOW MEASURED. Such width shall be measured from the
nearest side lot line and, in case the nearest side lot line is a side street
lot line, from the right-of-way line of the existing street; provided, that if
the proposed location of the right-of-way line of such street as officially
established differs from that of the existing street, then the required side
yard least width shall be measured from the right-of-way of such street so
established.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The administrative official designated by the City of
Flint with the responsibility for administering and enforcing this chapter and
related ordinances.
   ZONING CERTIFICATE. A document authorizing buildings, structures or uses
consistent with the terms of this chapter and for the purpose of carrying out
and enforcing its provisions.
   ZONING DISTRICT.  An area of the City in which certain structures, buildings
and uses are permitted or prohibited, as set forth in this chapter, that is
intended to protect and preserve the character of certain areas, to prevent the
establishment of incompatible uses in close proximity to each other, and to
regulate and provide for necessary and objectionable uses.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982; Ord. 2832, passed 5-
10-1982; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982; Ord. 2910, passed 4-23-1984; Ord. 2972,
passed 9-23-1985; Ord. 3015, passed 11-10-1986; Ord. 3053, passed 4-11-1988;
Ord. 3275, passed 4-25-1994; Ord. 3465, passed 12-11-2000; Ord. 3660, passed 7-
11-2005; Ord. 3705, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 50-2 INTERPRETATION AND PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   In their interpretation and application of the provision of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety and welfare. To protect the public, among other purposes,
such provisions are intended to provide for adequate light, pure air, safety
from fire and other danger, undue concentration of population and ample parking
facilities.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-3 CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annual or in any way
impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances,
except those specifically repealed by this chapter, or with private
restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed or other private agreement,
or with restrictive covenants running with the land to which the City is a
party. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon land, buildings or
structures than is imposed or required by such existing provisions of law,
ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-3.1 SEVERABILITY.
   This chapter (i.e., the “City of Flint Zoning Ordinance,” as amended) and
the various parts, sections, subsections and clauses thereof, are hereby
declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, subsection or
clause is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid, it is provided that the
remainder of the this chapter shall not be affected thereby. If any part,
sentence, paragraph, subsection, section or clause is adjudged unconstitutional
or invalid as applied to a particular property, building or other structure, it
is hereby provided that the application of such portion of this chapter to
other property, buildings or structures shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 3062, passed 7-11-1988)
§ 50-3.2 CONSTRUCTION OF CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   Whenever any condition or limitation is included in an order authorizing a
planned unit development or any special land use permit, variance, grading
permit, zoning compliance permit, certificate of occupancy, site plan approval
or any other zoning approval, it shall be conclusively presumed that the
authorizing officer or body considered such condition or limitation necessary
to carry out the spirit and purpose of this chapter or the requirement of some
provision thereof, and to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and
that the office or body would not have granted the authorization to which the
condition of limitation pertains except in the belief that the condition or
limitation was unlawful.
(Ord. 3062, passed 7-11-1988)
§ 50-4 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   The City is hereby divided into 16 zoning districts as follows:
A-1 Single-family low density district
A-2 Single-family medium density district
B   Two-family district
B-1 Townhouse district
C-1 Multifamily walk-up apartment district
C-2 Multifamily high density apartment district
D-1 Office district
D-2 Neighborhood business district
D-3 Community business district
D-4 Metropolitan business district
D-5 Metropolitan commercial service district
D-6 General and highway commercial-service district
E   Heavy commercial-limited manufacturing district
F   Intermediate manufacturing district
G   Heavy manufacturing district
 
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2770, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 3048, passed 10-
12-1987)
§ 50-5 CONFORMITY OF BUILDINGS AND LAND.
   No building, structure or premises shall be used or occupied; no building or
part thereof or other structure shall be erected, raised, removed, placed,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered; and no lot shall be split,
combined or otherwise modified except in conformity with the regulations
specified in this chapter for the district, as shown on the official map, in
which it is located, except as provided for in §§
50-143 through
50-148. This provision shall not prohibit two or more adjacent lots from being
treated as a zoning lot as defined in this chapter if they cannot be combined
into one tax parcel by the City.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3706, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 50-6 COMPLIANCE WITH THE HEIGHT, YARD AND OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS.
   No building, structure or premises shall be erected, altered or used so as
to produce greater height, smaller yards or less unoccupied area, and no
building shall be occupied by more families than prescribed for the building,
structure or premises for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-7 USE OF YARD, COURT OR OPEN SPACE TO FULFILL REQUIREMENTS OF MORE THAN
ONE BUILDING.
   No yard, court or open space, or part thereof, shall be included as a part
of the yard, court or open space similarly required for any other building,
structure or dwelling under this chapter.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-8 STANDARDS FOR HEIGHTS, AREAS, YARDS AND THE LIKE.
   Height, area, yard and other limits on requirements for controlling the size
of buildings and the open spaces about them as set forth in Tables A and B for
each of the zoning districts, set forth in §
50-89. Additional standards and regulations are set forth in the following
sections concerning districts, height modification and off-street parking and
loading requirements.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2140, passed 7-7-1969; Ord. 2503, passed 6-
9-1975)
§ 50-8.1 APPEARANCE STANDARDS.
   In any district which is or shall become built up or developed to such
degree that preservation or maintenance of its particular character or general
harmony of design carries special value to the general public, or bears
substantially upon the economic well-being or the people of the district and
the City, no building or structure shall be erected, nor any existing building
or structure altered, the appearance of which upon completion of the work shall
detract materially from that special value or economic well-being; provided,
that this section shall not apply to any case where the weight of the restraint
upon private ownership is shown to be greater than the benefit to the public of
its enforcement.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-8.2 INTERIM REGULATIONS PENDING ADOPTION OR URBAN RENEWAL PLANS.
   In any officially designated urban renewal areas, as defined in the Federal
Housing Law, all uses within such area shall be conditional uses,
notwithstanding any other provision of the district regulations contained in
this chapter, commencing on time with the date of the resolution of the local
public agency requesting Federal funding of a designated area, and ending on
the date of final approval of the area renewal plan, or the expiration of 12
months, whichever be shorter period of time. All applications for building
permits for new construction in such areas shall be referred to the Zoning
Board of Appeals by the Building Inspector for action pursuant to §
50-160. No such application may be granted unless the Board shall affirmatively
find that approval thereof does not or will not conflict with, obstruct or
unduly interfere with the development of the area renewal plan, or the renewal
program of the City.
(Ord. 2247, passed 2-15-1971)
§ 50-8.3 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (a)   Generally.
      (1)   a.   These site plan review procedures are designed and instituted
to promote the public health, safety and general welfare. This promotion of
health, safety and welfare can be accomplished by:
            1.   Encouraging the use of land in accordance with its character
and adaptability and avoiding overcrowding;
            2.   Providing adequate light and air;
            3.   Lessening congestion on the public roads and streets;
            4.   Reducing hazards to life and property; and
            5.   Conforming public services with the most advantageous uses of
land, resources and properties.
         b.   Other considerations shall be the character of each site, its
peculiar suitability for particular uses; the conservation of property values
and natural resources; the general and appropriate trend and character of land,
building and population development to the present use and character of the
surrounding area.
      (2)   These site plan review procedures provide an opportunity for the
Planning Commission of the City to review the proposed use and development of a
site to determine compliance with existing ordinances relating to zoning,
drainage, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, off-street parking, building
relationships, public utilities, landscaping, accessibility and other site
design elements which may have an adverse effect upon the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare, as well as to provide for the interests of
the property owner.
   (b)   Developments and uses requiring site plan review. A building permit
shall not be issued for any structure until a site plan has been reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission. Every site plan submitted to the Planning
Commission shall conform to the requirements of this section.
   (c)   Exceptions. A site plan shall not be required for the following
developments:
      (1)   Single-family detached residential developments involving fewer
than three dwelling units to be constructed by a single developer within 202
feet along the same street;
      (2)   Interior alterations, renovation or repair projects not involving a
change in use;
      (3)   Addition, deletion, expansion, change, or conversion to a single-
family dwelling or to an existing development, building, structure or use,
which does not require additional off-street parking and which does not
constitute an increase or decrease of 1,500 square feet or 20%, whichever is
less, in the size of the building, structure or use area;
      (4)   Temporary structures, temporary parking or storage areas requiring
permits as approved by the Building Code Board of Appeals; or
      (5)   Interior structural, mechanical and electrical work, maintenance,
demolition or combination thereof.
   (d)   Information required on plans. The Planning Commission may waive any
of the following requirements of information to be included on the site plan,
provided that sufficient clarity and detail is shown on the drawings to
indicate the nature and character of the development and/or use:
      (1)   An engineered site plan drawing with a legend showing every symbol
used on the plan and its meaning;
      (2)   Developer name, address and telephone number;
      (3)   Date of site plan preparation and subsequent revisions;
      (4)   North arrow;
      (5)   Scale of not less than one inch equals 40 feet, if the subject site
is less than three acres in size, or one inch equals 100 feet, if the subject
site is three acres or more in size;
      (6)   Name, address and telephone number of the registered architect,
engineer or land surveyor responsible for preparation of the site plan;
      (7)   The legal description of the lot;
      (8)   Vicinity map showing the site in relationship to streets, drainage
courses, bodies of water and railroad lines;
      (9)   Dimensions of all property lines;
      (10)   The area of the lot stated in acres or, if less than an acre, in
square feet;
      (11)   Existing zoning and land use within the boundaries of the site and
of properties abutting the site;
      (12)   Relationship of the subject site to abutting properties and
buildings within 100 feet if the proposed site is part of a larger site, the
boundaries of the total site shall be indicated and the intended use of the
remaining portions of the site;
      (13)   Existing and finished grade elevations using two-foot contours;
      (14)   Front, rear and side elevations of proposed building;
      (15)   Any anticipated increase in dust, odor, smoke, fumes, noise,
lights or other objectionable features;
      (16)   Percentage of land covered by buildings and percentage reserved
for open space;
      (17)   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed principal and
accessory buildings on the subject site, including height of proposed
structures in feet and stories;
      (18)   Front, rear and side yard requirements for the zoning district in
which the site is located;
      (19)   Actual front, rear and side yard setbacks to all existing and
proposed structures on the site;
      (20)   In a residential development, the number of dwelling units, type
of units, area per unit, and number of rooms;
      (21)   Location and width of any public or private rights-of-way or
easements upon or contiguous to the site, whether they will be created,
continued, relocated or abandoned; and the grade and type of construction of
any rights-of-way or easements upon the site;
      (22)   Location of all existing and proposed parking areas, including
location and typical dimensions of regular and handicapped spaces, with a
schedule of parking needs;
      (23)   Location and dimensions of maneuvering lanes, driving lanes, curb-
cuts, loading areas, service lanes and other service areas;
      (24)   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation, including ingress and
egress;
      (25)   Acceleration, deceleration and passing lanes where required;
      (26)   Location and detail of site lighting, including location, type and
height of existing and proposed exterior lighting;
      (27)   Buffer treatment of parking areas;
      (28)   Location and width of existing and proposed sidewalks on or
bordering the subject site;
      (29)   Location of all existing and proposed utilities;
      (30)   Location, height and type of all existing and proposed walls or
fences;
      (31)   Cross-section drawings of proposed walls, berms or fences;
      (32)   Existing driveways within 200 feet of the site;
      (33)   Dumpster pad location, screening and details;
      (34)   Location and dimensions of outdoor storage areas;
      (35)   Detailed planting plan and schedule of plant materials, including
an inventory of existing and proposed vegetation on the site;
      (36)   Basic indication of existing and proposed drainage patterns and
structures, including location and nature of any streams, drains, wetlands,
unstable soils or fences designed to prevent soil erosion and a general
description of method and location of storm water detention;
      (37)   Location, dimensions and content of all signage;
      (38)   A statement indicating the existing and intended use of the lot
and structures upon it;
      (39)   Any ancillary improvements proposed to remedy or prevent problems
created by the development; and
      (40)   Any other information concerning the subject site or adjacent lots
that the Planning Commission determines is reasonably necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (e)   Preliminary review. Two copies of the site plan along with a site plan
application and required fee shall be submitted to the Planning Official for
preliminary review to ensure compliance with all City ordinances. In addition,
the preliminary review shall ensure that a complete site plan has been
submitted to the Planning Commission for its consideration. The designated
planning official shall have a minimum of 15 business days to review the site
plan and provide feedback to the applicant.
   (f)   Final review. After receiving feedback on the preliminary review, the
applicant shall supply the City with 18 copies of the revised site plan, three
of which shall be signed and sealed by a registered engineer architect or
surveyor. The matter shall then be placed on the Planning Commission’s agenda
for consideration.
   (g)   Planning Commission review. The approval, denial, or approval with
limitations, conditions, modifications or alterations of a site plan by the
Planning Commission shall be based upon the following standards.
      (1)   Approval, denial, or approval with limitations, conditions,
modifications or alterations is consistent with the intent and purposes of this
section.
      (2)   Existing streets, highways, walkways, intersections, road widths,
traffic-control devices, deceleration lanes, service drives, entrance and exit
driveways and parking areas provide proper access and circulation of traffic
and are safe and convenient for pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
      (3)   The planned use and structures are compatible with the zoning
district in which they are located, and are appropriate and in harmony with the
appearance and essential character of the district.
      (4)   The planned use and structures are not hazardous or disturbing to
existing or intended uses in the same general area.
      (5)   The planned use will not be objectionable by reason of excessive
smoke, dust, light, glare, noise, vibration, odors or other objectionable
features.
      (6)   The planned use and structures are adequately served by existing
public facilities and services such as highways, streets, police and fire
protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal, water and sewage facilities,
and schools.
      (7)   The planned use and/or structure complies with all applicable
provisions of this chapter, unless a variance has been granted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
      (8)   The planned structure is accessible by emergency vehicles.
   (h)   Amendments to approved site plan. Minor changes to or deviations from
an approved site plan may be approved by the Planning Official. The Planning
Commission shall be notified of any such changes at its next regularly
scheduled meeting. If the Planning Official concludes that the proposed changes
are so substantial as to necessitate review by the Planning Commission, then
another site plan review application shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission with the appropriate fee.
   (i)   Expiration of approvals. The holder of an approved the plan must
obtain a building permit from the City Building Official within one year after
the date of issuance of the approved site plan. If such action is not taken
within one year, the approved site plan shall be void and a new site plan
application and appropriate fee shall be required. The Planning Commission may
extend the period of site plan approval on request for up to one year, provided
a request for the extension is made before the site plan expires.
   (j)   Building permits. The City Building Official shall not issue a
building permit for construction until receiving a copy of the approved site
plan and site plan application from the Planning Commission or Planning
Official.
(Ord. 2412, passed 11-5-1973; Ord. 2458, passed 10-14-1974; Ord. 3043, passed
8-24-1987; Ord. 3080, passed 10-24-1988; Ord. 3427, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3485,
passed 1-28-2002; Ord. 3634, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 50-8.4 BUILDING OFFICIAL TO ACT WITHIN 15 DAYS.
   The Building Official shall act upon all such applications on which he or
she is authorized to act by the provisions of §
50-8.3 within 15 days after they are filed in full compliance with all the
applicable requirements. He or she shall either issue a zoning certificate
within the 15 days or shall notify the applicant in writing of his or her
refusal of such certificate and the reasons therefor. Failure to notify the
applicant in case of refusal within 15 days shall entitle the applicant to
zoning certificate, unless the applicant consents to an extension of time.
(Ord. 2458, passed 10-14-1974)
§ 50-9 ZONING CERTIFICATE — REQUIRED; ISSUANCE; CONSTRUCTION OR EXCAVATION
PERMITS.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or tenant to use or permit
the use of any structure, building or land, or part thereof, created, erected,
changed, converted or enlarged, wholly or partly, until a zoning certificate,
which is a part of the building permit, shall have been issued by the Building
Inspector. The zoning certificate shall show that the building or premises or a
part thereof, and the proposed use thereof, are in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to
issue a zoning certificate; provided, that he or she is satisfied that the
structure, building or premises, and the proposed methods of water supply and
disposal of sanitary wastes, conform with all the requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   No permit for excavation or construction shall be issued by the
Building Inspector, unless the plans, specifications and the intended use
conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2412, passed 11-5-1973)
§ 50-10 SAME — APPLICATION.
   (a)   Every application for a zoning certificate, which is part of the
building permit, shall be accompanied by plans in duplicate drawn to scale, in
black line or blue print, showing the actual shape and the dimensions of the
lot to be built upon or to be changed in its use, in whole or in part; the
exact location, size and height of any building or structure to be erected or
altered; in the case of a proposed new building or structure of proposed
alteration of an existing building or structure which would substantially alter
its appearance, drawings or sketches showing the front, side and rear
elevations of the proposed building or structure, or of the structure as it
will appear after the work for which a permit is sought shall have been
completed; the existing and intended use of each building or structure or art
thereof; the number of families or dwelling units the building is designed to
accommodate; and, when no buildings are involved, the location of the present
use and proposed use to be made of the lot; and such other information with
regard to the lot and neighborhood lots as may be necessary to determine
applicable standards and provide for the enforcement of this chapter. One copy
of the plans shall be returned to the owner when the plans shall have been
approved by the Building Inspector, together with such zoning certificate as
may be granted.
   (b)   In every case where the lot is not provided and is not proposed to be
provided with public water supply or the disposal of sanitary wastes by means
of public sewers, the application shall be accompanied by a certificate of
approval of the Director of Health of the City of the proposed method of water
supply or disposal of sanitary waste.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-11 SAME — ACTIONS BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall act upon all such applications on which he or
she is authorized to act by the provisions of this chapter within 30 days after
they are filed in full compliance with all the applicable requirements. He or
she shall either issue a zoning certificate within 30 days or shall notify the
applicant in writing of his or her refusal of the certificate and the reasons
therefor. Failure to notify the applicant in case of such refusal within the 30
days shall entitle the applicant to a zoning certificate, unless the applicant
consents to an extension of time.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-12 SAME — FEES.
   No fee shall be charged for an original zoning certificate applied with the
application for a building permit, where such permit is required and issued
under the Building Code of the City. For all other zoning certificates, there
shall be a fee and charge therefor. The fee shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2770, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 3427, passed 2-
8-1999)
§ 50-13 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or tenant to occupy any
structure, building or land, or part thereof, erected, created, changed,
converted or enlarged after April 26, 1968 unless a certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued by the Building Inspector after inspection. Such
certificate shall show and certify that all or part of the building, structure
or premises has been constructed, altered or improved in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, the Building Code and other applicable laws, codes
or regulations and all conditions and requirements stipulated by the Board of
Appeals, if any. A temporary certificate renewable for one 6-month period, may
be issued by the Building Inspector in those instances where due to weather,
strikes and the like, full compliance with all controls has not been met and
the issuance of the certificate would not endanger the safety and health of the
occupants or public.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-14 SET BACK FROM SAGINAW STREET.
   (a)   No building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed or
substantially repaired so that any part of the same shall be within 49-5/10
feet of the centerline of Saginaw Street.
   (b)   A building shall be deemed substantially repaired within the meaning
of this section if reconstruction of the front is involved.
   (c)   The centerline of Saginaw Street within the meaning of this section
shall be the center line of the street as originally laid out.
   (d)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector of the City to enforce
this section.
   (e)   Any building permit issued by the Building Inspector which shall not
be in compliance with this section shall be void.
(Ord. 39, passed 8-21-1923)
§ 50-15 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER; COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER IN ISSUANCE OF PERMITS
AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce this chapter in
accordance with the administrative provisions of the Building Code of the City
and this chapter. All departments, officials and public employees of the City,
vested with the duty or authority to issue permit or licenses, shall comply
with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit or license for
any use, building or purpose in conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void and of no effect whatever.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-16 INSTITUTION OF PROCEEDINGS BY CITY TO CORRECT VIOLATIONS OF CHAPTER.
   In case any building is or proposed to be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained, used or any land is or is
proposed to be used in violation of this chapter or any amendment or supplement
thereto, appropriate action or proceedings may be instituted to prevent such
unlawful location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
conversion, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or abate such violation;
to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land; or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct business or use in or about the premises.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE II. A-1 SINGLE-FAMILY LOW DENSITY DISTRICT
§ 50-17 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal permitted uses are permitted outright in an A-
1 single-family low density district.
   (a)   Residential. One-family detached dwellings.
   (b)   Institutional and cultural. Churches and other places of worship;
public and parochial schools, colleges and universities for academic
instruction; public libraries, museums, art galleries; extension of existing
cemeteries.
   (c)   Recreational. Public parks, playgrounds, neighborhood and community
center buildings and grounds.
   (d)   Agricultural. Customary agricultural uses including noncommercial
nurseries and greenhouses, but expressly excluding the keeping of farm animals.
   (e)   Essential services.  As set forth in §
50-1.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-18 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are the principal conditional uses in an A-1 single-family low
density district.
   (a)   Recreational. Golf courses, country clubs, tennis courts and similar
uses, all of a noncommercial nature.
   (b)   Institutional. Children’s institutions, including nursery schools, and
day nurseries, homes for the aged (minimum site area 15,000 square feet;
limited occupancy, 1,500 square feet of lot area for each resident); private
schools.
   (c)   Essential services. Branch telephone exchanges, electric substations,
gas regulators or other utility facilities, including structures necessary to
serve adjacent areas, but not including yards or garages for service or
storage.
   (d)   Residential. Community development projects.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2795, passed 5-26-1981)
§ 50-19 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted outright in an A-1 single-family
low density district: Any use, structure or building customarily incidental to
principal use permitted outright and the following.
   (a)   Living quarters for domestic servants, minimum lot area 15,000 square
feet.
   (b)   Nameplates for public and semipublic uses.
   (c)   Real estate signs; temporary.
   (d)   Mausoleums and columbariums within and accessory to cemeteries, 100
feet from property lines.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-20 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal
conditional use is an A-1 single-family low density district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-20.1 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All dwellings shall be constructed on a permanent foundation.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 50-20.2 PROHIBITED USES.
   Mobile homes, prefabricated dwellings.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
ARTICLE III. A-2 SINGLE-FAMILY MEDIUM DENSITY DISTRICT
§ 50-21 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal permitted uses are permitted outright in an A-
2 single-family medium density district.
   (a)   Generally. All principal uses permitted outright and as regulated in
the A-1 district except as hereinafter specified.
   (b)   Residential. One-family detached dwellings.
   (c)   Institutional. Public administration buildings.
   (d)   Home occupations. Subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Only the residents of the premises shall be engaged in the
occupation.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling unit
shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation. (For the purposes of this
section, the basement and/or cellar shall not be included in computations of
total floor area.)
      (3)   No “walk-in” trade shall be allowed.
      (4)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, no structural alterations, or other visible evidence of the
conduct of such home occupation.
      (5)   Entrance shall be from within the dwelling.
      (6)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory building.
      (7)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a front yard.
      (8)   No equipment or process shall be used in the home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference No
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations
in line voltage off the premises.
      (9)   No storage or display of materials, goods, supplies or equipment
related to the operation of the home occupation shall be visible from the
outside of any structure located on the premises or on adjacent premises.
      (10)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of commercial
vehicles for delivery of materials to or from the premises; however, a vehicle
of no more than three-fourths ton capacity may be used a part of the home
occupation.
      (11)   No sign or other advertising shall be allowed anywhere on the
premises.
      (12)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of a residence by
an occupant of that residence to give or receive instruction in a craft, fine
art, science, humanity or field of learning and neither shall this section
prohibit the regulation of noise, advertising, traffic or other conditions that
may accompany the use of a residence as described above.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2910, passed 4-23-1984; Ord. 3301, passed 6-
12-1995)
§ 50-22 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are the principal conditional uses in an A-2 single-family
medium density district.
   (a)   Generally. All principal conditional uses permitted and regulated in
the A-2 district, except as herein specified.
   (b)   Institutional. Hospitals for human care, sanitariums, religious or
charitable institutions, excluding institutions for care exclusively or pri-
marily of epileptics, drug addicts, the feeble-minded or insane, alcoholics,
contagious diseases. (Minimum lot area, one acre; 1,500 square feet of lot area
for each resident or bed, excluding bassinets.)
   (c)   Residential. Community development projects.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2795, passed 5-26-1981; Ord. 2910, passed 4-
23-1984; Ord. 3036, passed 5-26-1987)
§ 50-23 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted out-right in an A-2 single-family
medium density district.
   (a)   Generally. Uses customarily incidental to principal uses permitted
outright.
   (b)   Roomers. Not more than two roomers or boarders by a residential
family.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-24 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USE.
   Any use, structure or building customarily incidental to a principal
conditional use shall be an accessory conditional use in an A-2 single-family
medium density district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-24.1 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (a)   All dwellings shall be attached to a permanent foundation constructed
on the site in accordance with City Building Code.
   (b)   All dwellings shall have a minimum width along the exterior side
elevation of 20 feet, measured along habitable dwelling space.
   (c)   Does not have exposed wheels, undercarriages or chassis, or utilities
that service that dwelling except electricity.
   (d)   Towing mechanisms must be removed.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 50-24.2 PROHIBITED USES.
   (a)   Type C mobile homes.
   (b)   Type D mobile homes.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
ARTICLE IV. B TWO-FAMILY DISTRICT
§ 50-25 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted outright in a B two-family
district.
   (a)   Generally. All A-2 principal uses.
   (b)   Residential. Two-family dwellings, dwelling groups.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-26 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are the principal conditional uses in a B two-family district.
   (a)   Generally. All principal conditional uses permitted and as regulated
in the A-2 district; except, that for institutional uses there shall be 1,000
square feet of lot area for each resident or bed, excluding bassinets.
   (b)   Residential.
      (1)   Community development projects.
      (2)   Three- or four-family dwellings, conforming to the regulations of
the C-1 district, may be erected on or occupy a lot in any one of the following
cases:
         a.   Where the lot adjoins side by side within 100 feet of
nonresidential districts;
         b.   Where each of the lots adjoining the lot is occupied by a
multifamily dwelling or a main building, other than a temporary building, the
se of which does not conform to the regulations of the B district; or
         c.   Where in the same block as such lot more than 25% of the street
frontage within 200 feet of the center of, and along the same street as, the
front lot line of the lot consists of front lot lines of lots occupied by
multifamily dwellings, or main buildings, other than temporary buildings, the
use of which does not conform to the regulations of the B district.
(Nonstructural uses and public buildings are not to be included in the
calculation of frontage; three or four-family dwellings complying with the
conditions herein shall be considered conforming uses in the B district.)
   (c)   Rest homes. Rest homes or nursing homes for convalescent patients. (At
least 15,000 square feet lot area; 1,000 square feet of lot area for each
resident; building 20 feet from property lines.)
   (d)   Hospitals. Hospitals of any kind, except animal. (Minimum lot area one
acre; 1,000 square feet of lot area for each resident or bed, excluding
bassinets; buildings for patients 50 feet from property lines.)
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2857, passed 10-25-1982; Ord. 3048, passed
10-12-1987)
§ 50-27 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted outright in a B two-family
district.
   (a)   Generally. Any use, structure or building customarily incidental to a
principal use permitted outright.
   (b)   Roomers. Same as A-2 accessory uses permitted outright or not more
than four roomers or boarders by a residential family in a one-family
structure, two in each dwelling unit of a two-family dwelling when there is a
lot area of at least 6,000 square feet.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-27.1 REQUIRED USES.
   Same as §
50-24.1.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 50-27.2 PROHIBITED USES.
   Same as §
50-24.2.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 50-28 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, structure or building customarily incidental to a principal
conditional use shall be an accessory conditional use in a B two-family
district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE IV.I. B-1 TOWNHOUSE DISTRICT
§ 50-28.1 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted outright in a B-1 townhouse
district.
   (a)   Generally.  All B district principal uses.
   (b)   Residential. Townhouses, a building containing three or more attached
dwelling units, arranged side by side, separated from each other by a fire wall
and having separate means of egress and ingress from the outside.
(Ord. 2770, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 50-28.2 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are the principal conditional uses in a B-1 townhouse
district: Generally. All principal conditional uses permitted and as regulated
in the A-2 district.
(Ord. 2770, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 50-28.3 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted outright in a B-1 townhouse
district.
   (a)   Generally. Any use, structure or building customarily incidental to a
principal use permitted outright.
   (b)   Roomers. Same as A-2.
(Ord. 2770, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 50-28.4 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, structure or building customarily incidental to a principal use
shall be an accessory conditional use in a B-1 townhouse district.
(Ord. 2770, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 50-28.5 PROHIBITED USES.
   Mobile homes.
(Ord. 2770, passed 6-9-1980)
§ 50-28.6 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Same as §
50-24.1.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
ARTICLE V. C-1 MULTIFAMILY WALK-UP APARTMENT DISTRICT
§ 50-29 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted outright in a C-1 multifamily
walk-up apartment district.
   (a)   Generally. All B district principal uses.
   (b)   Residential. Multifamily walk-up apartments, row houses, conversion of
one-family into multifamily dwellings.
   (c)   Institutional.
      (1)   a.   Fraternities, sororities.
         b.   Buildings 20 feet from property lines except when adjoining other
institutional uses or nonresidential districts.
         c.   Homes for the aged, monasteries and similar group dwellings for
members of religious orders, children’s institutions (all not less than 15,000
square feet).
         d.   Boarding and rooming houses.
      (2)   All of above uses shall provide at least 500 square feet of lot
area for each resident.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3015, passed 11-10-1986)
§ 50-30 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are the principal uses in a C-1 multifamily walk-up apartment
district.
   (a)   Generally. All principal conditional uses permitted and as regulated
in the B district; except, that for institutional uses there shall be 500
square feet of lot area for each resident or bed, excluding bassinets.
   (b)   Offices. Offices of civil, religious or charitable organizations and
financial or insurance institutions conducting their activities primarily by
mail and not handling merchandise or rendering service on the premises,
physician’s and dentist’s offices and private clinics, professional offices of
architects, engineering, lawyers and the like, offices devoted to real estate,
insurance, management and similar enterprises when conducting their activities
primarily by mail or telephone and not displaying or handling merchandise on
the premises. (One unlighted sign not exceeding six square feet in area and
attached to structure. The residential appearance of the building shall be
retained.)
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-31 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal use
permitted outright shall be permitted outright in a C-1 multifamily family
walk-up apartment district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-32 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal use
permitted outright shall be permitted outright in a C-1 multifamily walk-up
apartment district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-32.1 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal use
permitted outright shall be permitted outright in a C-1 multifamily walk-up
apartment district.
(Ord. 2829, passed 6-9-1980)
ARTICLE VI. C-2 MULTIFAMILY HIGH DENSITY APARTMENT DISTRICT
§ 50-33 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal permitted uses are permitted outright in a C-
2 multifamily high density apartment district.
   (a)   Generally. All C-1 principal uses.
   (b)   Residential. Multifamily dwellings of any kind; housekeeping units;
apartment hotels.
   (c)   Meeting places.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2972, passed 9-23-1985)
§ 50-34 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are principal conditional uses in a C-2 multifamily high
density apartment district.
   (a)   Generally. All principal conditional uses permitted and regulated in
the C-1 district; except, that for institutional uses there shall be 300 square
feet of lot area for each resident or bed, excluding bassinets.
   (b)   Hotels. For any number of guests, including motels and motor hotels.
   (c)   Offices. Of physicians, dentists, attorneys, engineers and similar
professional persons, administrative offices of semipublic organizations.
   (d)   Clinics.  For human care, sanitariums.
   (e)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
   (f)   Mobile home parks. Mobile home parks as specified in Article XX of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982; Ord. 3048, passed
10-12-1987)
§ 50-35 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal use
permitted outright shall be permitted outright in a C-2 multifamily high
density apartment district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-36 CONDITIONAL ACCESSORY USES.
   The following are the accessory conditional uses in a C-2 multifamily high
density apartment district.
   (a)   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal
conditional use.
   (b)   Restaurants, shops, personal service establishments in apartment
buildings and community development projects, hotels and recreation buildings;
provided that all entrances shall be from within such building or project and
no exterior advertising shall be permitted, except a four-square foot
nameplate.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-36.1 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Same as §
50-24.1.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 50-36.2 PROHIBITED USES.
   Same as §
50-24.2.
(Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
ARTICLE VII. D-1 OFFICE DISTRICT
§ 50-37 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the D-1 districts to provide definite areas which are
limited to office type uses exclusively.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-38 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following are the principal permitted uses in a D-1 office district.
   (a)   Offices.
      (1)   Medical or dental clinics.
      (2)   Offices for profession or business.
      (3)   Pharmacies, when incidental to the uses in subsections (1) and (2)
of this subsection (a) and located in the structure occupied by such uses.
   (b)   Residential uses. Any principal or conditional use permitted in
residence districts adjoining the D-1 district; and if these are adjoining the
D-1 district; and if these are adjoining two or more different categories of
residence districts, the regulations of the least restrictive of such residence
districts shall apply.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-39 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or other structure customarily incidental to any principal
use permitted outright shall be an accessory use permitted outright in a D-
1 office district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-40 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any building or other structure customarily incidental to any principal
conditional use shall be a conditional accessory use in a D-1 office district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-40.1 LOCATION OF MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   No mechanical amusement device shall be located closer than 500 feet from
any public or private school housing grades K through 12. The 500 feet shall be
measured from nearest point on the building to nearest point on building. This
prohibition shall not apply to bars or other establishments where minors are
prohibited by law.
(Ord. 2832, passed 5-10-1982)
ARTICLE VIII. D-2 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 50-41 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of D-2 districts to provide principally for convenience
goods needs of persons residing in the residential areas nearby. Uses permitted
outright or conditionally shall be limited to those required to satisfy basic
needs for goods and services required daily or frequently and other uses, which
while not serving basic day-to-day needs, nonetheless can be considered to have
little impact on surrounding residential areas.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2399, passed 7-16-1973; Ord. 3039, passed 6-
8-1987)
§ 50-42 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The principal permitted uses in a D-2 neighborhood business district are as
follows.
   (a)   Generally. Any local retail business or service establishment
supplying commodities or performing services primarily for residents of the
surrounding neighborhood on a day-to-day basis.
   (b)   Retail and service. Art or antique shops, artists’ supply stores,
camera and photo supply stores, groceries, supermarkets, meat, fruit and
vegetable markets, delicatessen stores, self-service laundries, clothes
cleaning and laundry pickup, book stores, novelty, millinery, notion, music and
TV stores, liquor and candy stores, tobacco shops, florists, shoe repair shops,
hardware stores, funeral homes and mortuaries and the like. Also, printing
shops employing not more than three persons in production and limited to
photocopier, photographic and photo- offset duplicating processes.
   (c)   Eating and drinking places. Soda fountains, ice cream parlors,
restaurants and cafeterias, not including dancing.
   (d)   Automotive services. Minor repair and parking garages for private
passenger vehicles and parking lots, subject to the other applicable
requirements of this chapter; also, automobile service stations, subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Minimum site size.  12,000 square feet with a minimum width of 120
feet.
      (2)   Site location. The proposed site shall have at least one property
line on an arterial street or principal collector as classified by the City-
County functional highway classification system.
      (3)   Distance from other land uses. No automobile service station will
be constructed on any lot that is located within 500 feet of two or more
existing automobile service stations, whether or not the stations are actually
being used for that purpose; the distance to be measured from the nearest lot
lines; provided, that any building constructed as an automobile service station
which has been converted to another use shall not be considered in determining
the existence of an automobile service station; in addition, no automobile
service station shall be erected within 500 feet of any school grounds or
buildings used for public assembly.
      (4)   Building setback. The automobile service station building shall be
set back a minimum of 45 feet from all street right-of-way lines and shall not
be located closer than ten feet to any property line in a residential district.
         a.   Extended or free standing canopies may be constructed to within
seven feet of street right-of-way lines and not closer than ten feet to any
property line in a residential district. Canopies shall have a minimum
clearance above the driveway surface of 14 feet, 0 inches. In addition,
enclosed attendant booths abutting the pump islands; provided, that the entire
area of the abutting the booth shall be enclosed with transparent safety
glassing material except for necessary framing and roof covering.
         b.   Hydraulic hoists, pits and all lubrication, greasing automobile
washing and repair equipment shall be entirely enclosed within a building.
      (5)   Access drives and curbing.  Access drives and curbing must be
approved by the Division of Traffic Engineering.
      (6)   Paving. The entire service area shall be surfaced with an asphalt
or portland cement binder pavement.
      (7)   Fencing. A solid wall or fence at least four feet in height shall
be erected along all property lines abutting any lot within a residential
district.
      (8)   Lighting.  Exterior lighting shall be so arranged that it is
deflected away from adjacent properties and does not create a traffic hazard
because of the glare.
      (9)   Junk. It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of an
automobile service station to allow the accumulation of junk, as hereinafter
defined, upon the premises of such automobile service station. JUNK, for the
purpose of this section, is defined as any waste material, refuse or any item
which has ceased to have any value for its original intended use. Nonrepairable
automobiles or any automobile parts which are no longer suitable for repair
operations are declared to be junk for the purposes of this section.
      (10)   Pumps. Pumps and other service devices shall be so placed that no
car, while being serviced, will be located on City property.
      (11)   Parking. All vehicles on the premises, with the exception of cars
being serviced at the pumps or waiting for immediate service, shall be provided
parking area in accordance with the requirements of Article XXV of this
chapter. In addition, any parking area used for the temporary storage of
wrecked vehicles shall be effectively screened on all sides fronting on a
public street, except for necessary entrances and exits, by a masonry wall or
solid fence or a chain link fence with a six-foot planting buffer maintained in
a healthy condition. The wall or fence shall be not less than four feet in
height.
   (e)   Financial services. Banks, drive-in banks, savings and loan
associations and finance companies.
   (f)   Outdoor advertising. Advertising only the business conducted on the
premises.
   (g)   Residential uses. Any use permitted and as regulated in the
residential district adjoining the D-2 district; and if there are adjoining two
or more different categories of residential districts, the regulations of the
least restrictive of such residential districts shall apply.
   (h)   Accessory uses permitted outright. Any use, building or other
structure customarily incidental to the principal use permitted outright.
   (i)   Accessory conditional uses. Any use, building or other structure
customarily incidental to any principal conditional use.
   (k)   Per § 50-47. The following “D-3” community business uses are permitted
outright by reference to the appropriate subsections of §
50-47: (b)(1) retail, personal and business services; (b)(4) offices; (b)(5)
commercial art studios; (b)(6) personal services; (b)(7) general business
services; (c)(2) trades; (c)(3) household services.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2344, passed 6-28-1972; Ord. 2353, passed 8-
14-1972; Ord. 2399, passed 7-16-1973; Ord. 3039, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 50-43 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USE.
   Any use, building or other structure customarily incidental to any principal
use permitted outright in a D-2 neighborhood business district shall also be
permitted.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-44 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or other structure customarily incidental to any principal
conditional use in a D-2 neighborhood business district shall be conditional
accessory use.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-44.1 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following principal uses are prohibited in the D-2 neighborhood business
district.
   (a)   Generally, any use first permitted and regulated in the following
districts: D-3, D-4, D-5, D-6, E, F, G.
   (b)   Pawn shops.
(Ord. 2872, passed 3-14-1983)
§ 50-45 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All uses authorized by this article shall be subject to the following
conditions.
   (a)   Business in enclosed buildings. All businesses, services or processing
shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building, except for the
sales of automotive fuels, lubricants and other fluids at service stations, and
such outdoor business, service, display or storage of vehicles, storage of
materials and equipment as hereinbefore specifically authorized or as may be
authorized by the Board of Appeals.
   (b)   Production of sale at retail. All products produced on the premises,
whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail on the premises where
produced.
   (c)   Use to be nonobjectionable. Processes and equipment employed and goods
sold shall be limited to those which are objectionable by reason of odor, dust,
smoke, cinders, gas fumes, noise, vibration, radiation, refuse matter or water-
carried waste.
   (d)   New merchandise. Goods for sale shall consist primarily of new
merchandise, except antiques.
   (e)   Hours of business. No business, service or processing shall conduct
its operation at any point in time between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00
a.m. if it is adjacent to a residential district unless it is enclosed on all
sides adjoining the residential district by screening and fencing.
   (f)   Location of SDM and SDD licenses. No business or service having an SDM
and/or SDD license shall be located within 500 feet, property to property, of
another business or service having an SDM or SDD license. This requirement
shall not apply to full-line groceries and supermarkets, regardless of size,
which have the following distinguishing characteristics:
      (1)   Provide a fresh beef, pork and poultry counter at least six feet in
length;
      (2)   Provide a fresh produce counter or area with a minimum of eight
items in at least one-case lots each at the time of purchase; and
      (3)   “Take-out” alcohol cannot occupy more than 10% of the gross
building floor area.
   (g)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting fixtures shall be no more than 20
feet in height and shall be shielded to prevent the visibility of the
luminaries from, and the casting of direct light upon, adjacent residential
properties. At the close of business, all illuminated signs and lights, not
necessary for security purposes, shall be extinguished.
   (h)   Trash and storage. All uses, including trash collection and storage
area, not located within a fully enclosed building or structure, shall be
completely enclosed by a solid wall, solid fence, dense living hedge, and/or
solid gate not less than six feet in height.
   (i)   Location of mechanical amusement devices. Same as D-1.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2344, passed 6-28-1972; Ord. 2353, passed 8-
14-1972; Ord. 2399, passed 7-16-1973; Ord. 2713, passed 6-25-1979; Ord. 2832,
passed 5-10-1982; Ord. 2872, passed 3-14-1983; Ord. 2968, passed 9-9-1985)
ARTICLE IX. D-3 COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 50-46 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of D-3 districts to provide for the needs for both
convenience goods and more common and often recurring shopping goods, and also
personal and household services, of a population considerably larger than that
served by neighborhood business districts. The principal establishment in the
district will normally be one or several variety stores, supermarkets, super
drugstores, clothing stores, shoe stores, household appliance stores, branch
banks and the like.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2078, passed 9-5-1968; Ord. 2832, passed 5-
10-1982; Ord. 3684, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 50-47 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal permitted uses are permitted outright in a D-
3 community business district.
   (a)   Generally. Any use permitted and as regulated in the D-2 district,
except as hereinafter modified.
   (b)   Retail, personal and business services. 
      (1)   Retail stores. Furniture and appliance stores, department stores,
variety and dime stores, sporting goods stores, jewelry stores, general
clothing, dry goods and apparel stores, mail order houses, bakeries employing
not more than ten persons in production and having only stationary windows and
required fire exits within 50 feet of a residence district and the like.
      (2)   Eating and drinking places.  Bars, restaurants, grills, cocktail
lounges, including entertainment, subject to the provisions of subsection (3)
of this subsection (b). Also, drive-in restaurants; provided, that the premises
shall be screened by a six-foot solid wall or fence, or a chain link fence with
a six-foot planting buffer maintained in a healthy condition where it adjoins
or faces a residential district.
      (3)   Entertainment. Nightclubs, theaters, halls for hire (including
“bingo halls” and similar establishments not dedicated to gaming uses), penny
arcades, bowling alleys and similar enterprises, but not within 50 feet of any
residence district, unless a building having no openings other than stationary
windows and required fire exits; subject to all applicable regulations and such
licenses as may be required; also temporary amusement enterprises, when
authorized by the City Council.
      (4)   Offices. Office buildings of any kind.
      (5)   Commercial art studios, including photographic studios, dance
studios, radio and telecasting studios and the like.
      (6)   Personal services.  Health services and other personal service
establishments.
      (7)   General business services. Business, appliance and equipment repair
shops, mimeographing and the like printing shop employing not more than ten
persons in production and having only stationary windows and required fire
exits within 50 feet of a residence district.
      (8)   Business schools. Provided no equipment or machinery is employed
which is not permitted in the D-3 district.
      (9)   Outdoor advertising. Subject to the applicable regulations.
      (10)   Limited light wholesale. Wholesaling of merchandise when
incidental and secondary to a permitted retail use in the D-3 district and
certain light wholesale businesses handling only the following: barber and
beauty shop supplies, radio and television parts supplies, tobacco products or
similar uses as determined by the Board of Appeals.
      (11)   Motels and motor hotels.
      (12)   Meeting places. Not within 50 feet, property line to property
line, of any residence district, subject to all applicable regulations and such
licenses as may be required.
   (c)   Trades, maintenance and repair.
      (1)   Automotive services. In addition to those authorized in the D-
2 district, automotive display (including used car lots), hire, sales,
automatic car washes, minor auto repair; provided that all operations other
than display and sales shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building; and provided further, that any portion of a building used for repair
of automobiles or as a public garage located within 100 feet from any residence
district shall have no windows facing the residence district, other than
stationary windows or required fire exits. All sales, display and hire of
vehicles, if conducted outside of a completely enclosed building, shall be
conducted on a paved asphaltic or portland binder surface.
      (2)   Trades. Sheet metal, carpenter, plumbing or heating shops,
furniture upholstering, paint, paper hanging, decorating or sign painting shops
and similar enterprises; provided, that any building occupied by such use and
located within 100 feet of any residence district shall have no openings facing
the residence district, other than stationary windows or required fire exits.
      (3)   Household services.  Laundry, dyeing and dry cleaning shops;
provided, that no building for any such use and located within 50 feet of any
residence district shall have any heating or power plant, ventilating fan or
other opening facing the residence district, except stationary windows and
required fire exits; household goods and appliance repair shop and the like.
   (d)   Residential uses. Any principal or conditional use permitted and as
regulated in the C-1 district; provided, that if there are adjoining the D-
3 district any residence districts which are less restrictive than the C-
1 district, the regulation of the least restrictive of the adjoining residence
districts shall apply.
   (e)   Small animal/companion veterinary clinics.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2078, passed 9-5-1968; Ord. 2832, passed 5-
10-1982; Ord. 2872, passed 3-14-1983; Ord. 2972, passed 9-23-1985; Ord. 3053,
passed 4-11-1988; Ord. 3159, passed 2-25-1991; Ord. 3237, passed 7-12-1993;
Ord. 3329, passed 4-22-1996; Ord. 3684, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 50-48 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal use
permitted outright in a D-3 community business district shall also be permitted
outright.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2078, passed 9-5-1968; Ord. 3684, passed 10-
23-2006)
§ 50-49 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All uses authorized by this article shall be subject to the same required
conditions as in the D-2 district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2078, passed 9-5-1968; Ord. 2713, passed 6-
25-1979; Ord. 2832, passed 5-10-1982; Ord. 3684, passed 10-23-2006)
ARTICLE X. D-4 METROPOLITAN BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 50-50 PURPOSE.
   The D-4 metropolitan business district is intended to accommodate the
several commercial types of activities and uses commonly found in the core of
central business districts, as defined for the City in the central business
district plan, and as found also in the largest regional shopping centers.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-51 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted in a D-4 metropolitan business
district.
   (a)   D-3 uses. Any use permitted by §
50-47(b) in the D-3 district and as regulated therein, except as hereafter
modified.
   (b)   Office buildings. Of any kind, including wholesale offices and
incidental wholesale storage.
   (c)   Other retail uses. Department stores, and any other retail use or
service not first permitted or prohibited in the D-5 district.
   (d)   Printing. Newspaper publishing plants.
   (e)   Light manufacturing. Any manufacturing, treatment, converting,
finishing or assembling authorized as principal use permitted outright in the E
district; provided, that such use shall not occupy the ground floor street
frontage of any building within the core area, D-4 district.
   (f)   Residential uses. Residential uses of any kind; provided, that such
uses shall not occupy the ground floor of any building within the district.
Off- street parking per §
50-139 is not required; however, if provided, shall not occupy the ground floor
street frontage of any building.
   (g)   Clubs, lodges. Alcoholic beverages may be sold, consumed or stored on
the premises provided this activity meets all Federal, State or local statutes
or ordinances, but not within 50 feet, property line to property line, of any
residence district and subject to all applicable licenses and such licenses as
may be required.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2930, passed 1-15-1985; Ord. 2972, passed 9-
23-1985; Ord. 3237, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 50-52 PARKING STRUCTURES AND LOTS.
   When authorized by the Board of Appeals, parking structures and lots for
passenger vehicles only, shall be principal conditional uses, subject to the
following conditions.
   (a)   Such structures or lots shall conform with the official circulation
and downtown development plan.
   (b)   Entrances and exits or ingress and egress ways, lanes or ramps shall
be connected directly with one or more of the principal thoroughfares
designated in the official circulation plan, by means of a private passage,
bridge, tunnel or otherwise.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-53 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal use
permitted outright, including production, processing and storage of goods sold
at retail, and wholesale storage in conjunction with wholesale offices;
provided, that any such production, processing or storing shall not occupy
ground floor street frontage within the core area of the City, shall be an
accessory use permitted outright in a D-4 metropolitan business district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-54 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal
conditional use in a D-4 metropolitan business district shall be a conditional
accessory use.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-55 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are prohibited in a D-4 metropolitan business district:
any use which is first permitted or which is prohibited in the D-5 district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2930, passed 1-15-1985)
§ 50-56 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All uses authorized in this article shall be subject to the following
conditions.
   (a)   Enclosed buildings. All business, service, repair, processing, storage
or display of merchandise shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed
building, except off-street parking structures and lots, used car and truck
lots, off-street loading areas, gasoline stations and outdoor advertising.
However, food, beverages (including alcohol) and merchandise may not be
displayed and sold by an owner or tenant outside of a completely enclosed
building subject to approval by the Flint Planning Commission as a “special
land use” (§
50-151.1) and the following conditions:
      (1)   Meet all health codes and City licensing and permit requirements.
      (2)   Pedestrian and vehicular movement and circulation may not be
impeded.
      (3)   Outside activities must be conducted in a clearly demarcated area
with barriers.
      (4)   A detailed site plan showing the location of all furniture and
equipment must be submitted to and approved by the Flint Planning Commission.
Outdoor furniture and equipment shall be constructed of materials that are
durable and stable. The requirements of §
50-8.3 shall not apply to this subsection if the site plan required hereunder
is not submitted in conjunction with a project requiring formal site plan
review.
   (b)   Outdoor seating. Businesses providing outdoor seating for eight (8) or
less patrons shall not be considered a special land use. Therefore, it is
exempt from complying with the special land use requirements set forth in §
50-151.1(3). However, it is still required to comply with the requirements of §
50-56(a)(1) through (4). The zoning certificate issuance (§
50-9) and fee set forth in §
50-12 shall apply.
   (c)   Use to be nonobjectionable. Processes and equipment employed and goods
sold shall be limited to those which are nonobjectionable by reason of odor,
heat, dust, smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, radiation, refuse
matter or water-carried waste.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2927, passed 11-12-1984; Ord. 3798, passed
8-8-2011)
ARTICLE XI. D-5 METROPOLITAN COMMERCIAL-SERVICE DISTRICT
§ 50-57 PURPOSE.
   The D-5 metropolitan commercial-service district is intended to accommodate
the various commercial and residential activities and uses which are commonly
found and properly located in the areas adjacent to the core of central
business districts, which are characteristic of the frame area as defined by
the central business district plan.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-58 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following are the principal uses permitted outright in a D-
3 metropolitan commercial-service district.
   (a)   D-3 uses. Any use permitted and as regulated in the D-3 district,
except as hereinafter modified.
   (b)   D-4 uses. Any principal use permitted outright and as regulated in the
D-4 district, except as hereinafter modified.
   (c)   C-2 uses. Any use permitted and as regulated in the C-2 district,
except as hereinafter modified.
   (d)   Automotive services.  Automotive repair and services, collision
service; automotive rental and sales.
   (e)   Manufacturing. Any manufacturing use authorized as an principal use
permitted outright and as regulated in the E district; provided, that such use
shall not occupy any ground floor street frontage unless completely screened by
a solid wall without openings or windows other than stationary windows and
required fire exits. Subject to the height, area and yard requirements of the
D-5 district.
   (f)   Printing. Engraving, printing, publishing or lithographing.
   (g)   Schools. Trade or business schools, including shops, testing
laboratories, studios, but not employing machinery which would not be permitted
in the E district.
   (h)   Wholesale and warehouse. Wholesale enterprises and warehouses of any
kind, except those which would not be permitted in E district.
   (i)   Laboratories. Experimental, film or testing laboratories; provided,
that no operation shall be conducted or equipment used which would create
hazardous, noxious or offensive conditions.
   (j)   Studios. Motion picture, television and radio production studios,
transmitters and related equipment.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-59 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   When authorized by the Board of Appeals, the following shall be the
principal conditional uses in a D-5 metropolitan commercial-service district.
   (a)   Parking structures and lots.  Subject to the conditions and
requirements of the D-4 district; except, that ground floor street frontage may
also be used for parking of passenger vehicles.
   (b)   Bus terminals. Depots and terminals for transit buses.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-60 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal uses
in a D-5 metropolitan commercial-service district shall be an accessory use
permitted outright.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-61 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal,
conditional use in a D-5 metropolitan commercial-service district shall be a
conditional accessory use.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-62 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All uses authorized in this article shall be subject to the following
conditions.
   (a)   Enclosed buildings. All business, service, repair, processing, storage
or display merchandise shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building,
except off-street parking structures and lots, used car and truck lots, off-
street loading areas, gasoline stations and outdoor advertising. However, food,
beverages (including alcohol) and merchandise may be displayed and sold by an
owner or tenant outside of a completely enclosed building subject to approval
by the Planning Commission as a “special land use” (§
50-151.1) and the following conditions:
      (1)   Meet all health codes and City licensing and permit requirements;
      (2)   Pedestrian and vehicular movement and circulation may not be
impeded;
      (3)   Outside activities must be conducted in a clearly demarcated area;
      (4)   If conducted in a public right-of-way, must also obtain permission
from the City Council; and
      (5)   A detailed site plan showing the location of all furniture and
equipment must be submitted to and approved by the Planning Commission. The
requirements of §
50-8.3 shall not apply to this subsection if the site plan required hereunder
is not submitted in conjunction with a project requiring formal site plan
review.
   (b)   Use to be nonobjectionable. Processes and equipment employed and goods
sold shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor,
dust, smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibrations, radiation, refuse, matter
or water-carried waste.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2927, passed 11-12-1984)
ARTICLE XII. D-6 GENERAL AND HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL-SERVICE DISTRICT
§ 50-63 PURPOSE.
   The D-6 general and highway commercial-service district is intended to
accommodate primarily those establishments offering accommodations, supplies or
service to motorists, and certain specialized uses, retail outlets, repair and
service establishments, which, although serving the entire City or a major
section thereof, do not customarily locate in the central business district or
in community business districts. Ordinarily the D-6 district will be located
along numbered State or Federal highways or other primary thoroughfares so
designated in the major street plan.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-64 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal permitted uses are permitted outright in a D-
6 general and highway commercial-service district.
   (a)   D-5 uses. Any principal use permitted outright and as regulated in the
D-5 district, except as hereinafter modified.
   (b)   Eating and drinking establishments. Drive-in eating and drinking
places, summer gardens and roadhouses; provided, that the principal building is
at least 50 feet from any residence district. Entertainment and dancing are
subject to the same regulations as provided in D-3.
   (c)   Automotive services, farm implements. Automobile, trucks, trailers,
farm implements, for sale, display, hire, service or repair, including sales
lots, used car lots, trailer lots, repair garages, body and fender shops, paint
shops; provided, that any portion of a building used for major repairs located
within 100 feet of any residence district shall have no openings facing such
residence districts, other than stationary windows or required fire exits
within such 100 feet of the residence district.
   (d)   Animal hospitals, veterinary clinics and the like.  Animals hospitals,
kennels for display, boarding or treatment of pets and other domestic animals;
provided, that any structure or area used for such purposes, including pens and
exercise yards shall be located at least 50 feet from any residence district.
   (e)   Commercial recreation. Any type of commercial recreation, including
baseball fields, bowling alleys, trampoline centers, swimming pools, skating
rinks, golf driving ranges and similar open air facilities; provided, that any
structure or area used for such purposes shall be located not less than 100
feet from any residence district.
   (f)   Motels and motor hotels.
   (g)   Contractor’s yards and similar establishments. Building material yards
excluding concrete mixing plant, contractor’s equipment yard or plant or
storage yard for rental of equipment commonly used by contractors; retail
lumberyards, including only incidental millwork; storage and sales of grain,
livestock feed or fuel; carting, express or hauling establishments; public
utility service yard; stone and monument works not including power driven
tools; provided, that such uses are conducted:
      (1)   In completely enclosed buildings, which buildings shall have at
least 100 feet from any residence district unless they have no openings other
than stationary windows and required fire exits within such distance; and
      (2)   When conducted within an area completely enclosed on all sides
adjacent to or directly across a street from a residential district with a
solid wall or uniformly painted solid board fence or a chain link fence with a
six-foot planting buffer maintained in a healthy condition, fencing not less
than six feet high.
   (h)   Bottling works. Bottling of soft drinks and milk or distribution
stations; provided, that no building used for bottling customarily involving
night operation shall have any opening other than stationary windows or
required fire exits within 50 feet of any residence district. No space used for
loading and unloading of commercial vehicles in connection therewith shall be
within 50 feet of any residence district unless enclosed on all sides adjacent
to or directly across the street from a residence district with a solid wall or
uniformly painted solid board fence or a chain link fence with a six-foot
planting buffer maintained in a healthy condition. Fencing shall not be less
than eight feet high.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-65 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   When authorized by the Board of Appeals, the following shall be principal
conditional uses within a D-6 general and highway commercial-service district.
   (a)   Trailer parks.  Subject to the trailer park regulations of this
chapter.
   (b)   Drive-in theaters.
   (c)   Amusement enterprises. Circus, amusement park and similar transient or
seasonal amusement enterprises.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-66 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal use
permitted outright in a D-6 general and highway commercial-service district
shall be an accessory use permitted outright.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-67 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal
conditional use in a D-6 general and highway commercial-service district shall
be a conditional accessory use.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-68 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All uses authorized in this chapter shall be subject to the following
conditions.
   (a)   Enclosures. Any business, service, repair, processing, storage or
display, whether principal or accessory, if not conducted wholly within an
enclosed building shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence at least six feet
high or a chain link fence at least six feet high with a six-foot planting
buffer maintained in a healthy condition where the use adjoins or faces either
directly, or across a street, alley or other public open space, any residence
district.
   (b)   Use to be nonobjectionable. Processes and equipment employed and goods
sold shall be limited to those which are nonobjectionable by reason of odor,
dust, smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, radiation, refuse matter
and water-carried wastes.
   (c)   Outdoor advertising. As per applicable regulations.
   (d)   Improvement of auto storage areas. Areas which are in the normal
conduct of business frequently used by automobiles, trucks or trailers shall be
graded, drained and surfaced and otherwise comply with the requirements of the
off-street parking and loading regulations of this chapter.
   (e)   Traffic safety. Entrances and exits connecting the public thoroughfare
system with establishments which in the normal conduct of business depend upon
the frequent ingress and egress of automobiles shall be subject to approval by
the Traffic Engineer.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XIII. E HEAVY COMMERCIAL-LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 50-69 PURPOSE.
   The E heavy commercial-limited manufacturing district is intended to
accommodate heavy commercial and certain light manufacturing uses which are
generally incompatible with uses appropriate in retail business districts but
which do not warrant an exclusive industrial classification.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-70 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted outright in an E heavy
commercial-light manufacturing district.
   (a)   D-5 and D-6 uses. Any principal use permitted outright and any
principal conditional use as regulated in the D-5 and D-6 district, except as
hereinafter modified.
   (b)   Manufacturing uses. The processing, manufacturing, assembling and
distribution such as the following.
      (1)   Food products. Bakery goods, candy, light meat packing, sausage
making, canning, milk products, coffee roasting and the like; excluding fish
products, slaughterhouses, sauerkraut, vinegar or yeast, manufacturing and
rendering and refining of fats or oils, and except such as are first permitted
or are prohibited in the F district; provided, that no building used as a
bakery or other use customarily involving night operation shall have any
opening other than stationary windows or a required fire exit within 50 feet of
any residence district; and provided, that no space used for loading or
unloading commercial vehicles in connection with the operation shall be within
50 feet of any residence district.
      (2)   Pharmaceuticals. General pharmaceutical products, cosmetics and
toiletries.
      (3)   Products from the following previously prepared materials. Bone,
canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious metals or stones, sheet
metal, except where presses over 20 tons rated capacity are employed, shell,
textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood and yarns.
      (4)   Pottery and figurines. Using previously pulverized clay, and kilns
fired only with gas or electricity.
      (5)   Novelties. Including musical instruments, toys, rubber or metal
stamps and other small rubber products.
      (6)   Appliances. Electrical and electronic appliances, instruments and
devices, television sets, radios, phonographs, electric and neon signs, and the
like.
      (7)   Light sheet metal products. Including heating and ventilating
equipment, cornices, eaves and the like.
   (c)   Miscellaneous uses. Provided no part of a building occupied by such
uses shall have any opening other than stationary windows or required fire
exits within 50 feet of any residence district.
      (1)   Welding shops or other metal working or machine shop. Excluding,
within 200 feet of any residence district, punch presses over 20 tons rated
capacity, drop hammers and other excessive noise-generating machine-operated
tools.
      (2)   Foundry. Casting lightweight nonferrous metals, or electric foundry
not causing noxious fumes or odors.
      (3)   Rag cleaning. Bag, carpet and rag cleaning; provided, that
necessary equipment is installed and operated for the effective recovery of
dust.
      (4)   Ice manufacturing. Any cold storage plants.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-71 PRINCIPAL CONDITIONAL USES.
   When authorized by the Board of Appeals, the following shall be principal
conditional uses in a E heavy commercial-limited manufacturing district:
   (a)   Freight terminals. Truck terminals, minor railroad freight stations
and depots; provided, that the premises is at least 200 feet from any residence
district and subject to approval by the Traffic Engineer.
   (b)   Bulk stations. Provided all storage tanks shall be located under
ground.
   (c)   Building materials sales yards. Including concrete mixing, lumber
yards, planing mills, open yards for storage and sale of feed or fuel, or both,
when located not less than 200 feet from any residence district.
   (d)   Airports. Provided all of the Federal and State aeronautical
regulations are complied with. Uses of airport land shall be limited to the
uses permitted in the E district, and, in addition, those commercial and
industrial uses incidental and related to airport operations.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-72 PRINCIPAL ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal use
permitted outright in a E heavy commercial-light manufacturing district shall
be an accessory use permitted outright.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-73 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to any principal
conditional use in a E heavy commercial-light manufacturing district shall be
conditional accessory use.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-74 PROHIBITED USES.
   (a)   Dwellings and residences of any kind, including motels and trailers
parks, also schools, hospitals and clinics and other institutions for human
care, except where they are incidental to a permitted principal use shall be
prohibited in an E heavy commercial-light manufacturing district; provided,
that any of the aforesaid uses legally existing in the E district on April 26,
1968, or at the time of the adoption of any amendment to this chapter shall not
be classified as a nonconforming use.
   (b)   Any use which is first permitted in the F district shall also be
prohibited.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982)
§ 50-75 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All uses authorized in this article shall be subject to the following
conditions.
   (a)   Enclosures. Any business, service, repair, processing, storage or
display, whether principal or accessory, if not conducted wholly within an
enclosed building shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence at least six feet
high or a chain link fence at least six feet high with a six-foot planting
buffer maintained in a healthy condition where use abuts, adjoins or faces,
either directly or across a street, alley or other public open space, any
residence district.
   (b)   Use to be nonobjectionable. Processes and equipment and goods sold
shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust,
smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, radiation, refuse matter and
water-carried waste.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XIV. F INTERMEDIATE MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 50-76 PURPOSE.
   The F intermediate manufacturing district is designed to accommodate those
manufacturing establishments which are either free of objectionable influences
in their operation or which can readily obviate or control any objectionable
features which may otherwise result from the manufacturing processes.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-77 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted outright in an F intermediate
manufacturing district.
   (a)   E uses. Any principal use permitted outright and any principal
conditional use as regulated in the E district, except as hereinafter modified.
   (b)   Other manufacturing uses, general provisions.  Any manufacturing use
may be permitted outright, in the F district, which is not prohibited by this
article.
   (c)   Nonmanufacturing uses. The following uses are authorized but shall be
subject to certain hereinafter prescribed stipulations.
      (1)   Automobile salvage and wrecking operations.  Including industrial
metal and waste salvage operations and junkyard, if located not less than 200
feet from any residence district; provided, that all operations are conducted
with an area enclosed on all sides fronting on a public street with a solid
wall or uniform tight board fence, not less than eight feet high; and provided
further, that the operation shall not be visible from the nearest street. Any
gates shall be designed so the operation is not visible from the street.
      (2)   Crematory. If located not less than 200 feet from any residence
district.
      (3)   Railroad yard and major freight station. If located not less than
200 feet from any residence district, subject to approval of Traffic Engineer.
      (4)   Coal, coke and wood yards. Provided the premises are enclosed on
all sides fronting on a public street by a solid wall or fence at least eight
feet high. Any gates shall be designed so the operation is not visible from the
street; provided further, that the yard is located not less than 200 feet from
any residence district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-78 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure, customarily incidental to a principal use
permitted outright in an F intermediate manufacturing district, shall be an
accessory use permitted outright.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-79 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal
conditional use in an F intermediate manufacturing district shall be a
conditional accessory use.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-80 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are prohibited in a F intermediate manufacturing
district.
   (a)   Dwellings. Dwellings and residences of any kind, including motels and
trailer parks, also schools, hospitals, clinics and other institutions of human
care, except where they are incidental to a permitted principal use; provided,
that any of the aforesaid uses legally existing in the F district on April 26,
1968, or at the time of adoption of any amendment thereto, shall not be
classified as a nonconforming use.
   (b)   Business and services.  Retail business, personal and business service
establishments of any kind, except the following:
      (1)   Restaurants or cafeterias and refreshments or tobacco stands where
incidental and accessory to principal use;
      (2)   Animal hospitals;
      (3)   Storage and equipment yards;
      (4)   Automobile service stations and repair garages; and
      (5)   Union halls.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2691, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 50-81 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All uses authorized in this article shall be subject to the following
conditions.
   (a)   Enclosures. Any business, service, repair, processing, storage or
display, whether principal or accessory, if not conducted wholly within an
enclosed building, shall be enclosed by a solid wall or fence six feet high or
a chain link fence at least six feet high with a six-foot planting buffer
maintained in a healthy condition where such use abuts, adjoins or faces,
either directly or across a street alley or other public open space, any
residence district.
   (b)   Night operations.  No building customarily used for night operations
shall have any opening, other than stationary windows or fire exits within 100
feet of any residence district and no loading dock used in connection with such
operation shall be located within 100 feet of any residence district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982)
ARTICLE XV. G HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 50-82 PURPOSE.
   The G heavy manufacturing district is intended to accommodate those heavy
industries which cannot eliminate entirely objectionable features and
influences but which, nevertheless, must be provided for somewhere in the City.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-83 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following principal uses are permitted outright in a G heavy
manufacturing district.
   (a)   Any principal use permitted in the F district and the following uses
that are not subject to distance requirements may be located anywhere in the G
district:
      (1)   Acetylene manufacturing in excess of 15 pounds pressure per square
inch;
      (2)   Acid manufacture;
      (3)   Asbestos manufacturing;
      (4)   Automobile assembly;
      (5)   Bleaching, cleaning and dyeing plant;
      (6)   Boiler shops, structural steel fabricating shops, railway car or
locomotive shops, including repair metal working shops employing reciprocating
hammers or presses over 20 tons rated capacity;
      (7)   Brewing or distilling of liquor;
      (8)   Brick, pottery, tile and terra cotta manufacturing;
      (9)   Candle or sperm oil manufacturing;
      (10)   Cooperage works;
      (11)   Dextrine, starch or glucose manufacturing;
      (12)   Disinfectant, insecticide or poison manufacturing;
      (13)   Enameling, lacquering or jappaning, varnishing;
      (14)   Emery cloth or sandpaper manufacturing;
      (15)   Felt manufacturing;
      (16)   Flour or grain mill;
      (17)   Forge or foundry works;
      (18)   Grain drying or poultry feed manufacturing, from refuse, mash or
grain;
      (19)   Hair or hair products manufacturing;
      (20)   Lime or lime products manufacturing;
      (21)   Linoleum, oil cloth or oiled goods manufacturing;
      (22)   Match manufacturing;
      (23)   Meat packing;
      (24)   Paper and pulp manufacturing;
      (25)   Perfume manufacturing;
      (26)   Pickle, sauerkraut or sausage manufacturing;
      (27)   Plaster manufacturing;
      (28)   Poultry slaughterhouse, including packing and storage for
wholesale;
      (29)   Printing ink manufacturing;
      (30)   Radium extraction;
      (31)   Sandblasting or cutting;
      (32)   Sawmill, the manufacture of excelsior, wood fiber or sawdust
products;
      (33)   Sewage disposal plant;
      (34)   Shoddy manufacturing;
      (35)   Shoe blacking or polish or stove polish manufacturing;
      (36)   Steam power plant, except where accessory to a permitted principal
use;
      (37)   Stone and monument works; and
      (38)   Slag piles.
   (b)   Any other use which, in the judgment of the Board of Appeals, is of a
similar character in respect to the possible emission of dangerous or offensive
elements as the uses listed above.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-84 USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   All parts of the premises upon which the uses described in this section may
be established and continued in a G heavy manufacturing district, shall be not
less than 600 feet from any residence, D-1, D-2 and D-3 district, and not less
than 200 feet from any D-4, D-5 and D-6 district.
   (a)   Manufacturing of:
      (1)   Asphalt, cement, charcoal and fuel briquettes;
      (2)   Aniline dyes, ammonia, carbide, caustic soda, cellulose, chlorine,
carbon black and bone black, creosote, hydrogen and oxygen, industrial alcohol,
nitrates of an explosive nature, potash, plastic materials and synthetic
resins, pyroxylin, rayon yarn, and hydrochloric, nitric, phosphoric, picric and
sulphuric acids, rocket fuels;
      (3)   Coal, coke and tar products, including gas manufacturing;
explosives, fertilizers, gelatin, animal glue and size;
      (4)   Turpentine; and
      (5)   Rubber; soaps including fat rendering.
   (b)   Processing involving nitrating of cotton or other materials; magnesium
foundry; reduction, refining, smelting and alloying of metal or metal ores;
refining petroleum products, such as gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, lubricating
oil; distillation of wood or bones; storage, curing or tanning of raw, green or
salted hides or skins; nuclear reactors.
   (c)   Stockyards; slaughter houses.
   (d)   Storage of explosives or fireworks, except where incidental and
accessory to a use which is not subject to a distance requirement.
   (e)   Storage of oil, gasoline and other inflammable liquids above ground.
   (f)   Any other use which, in the judgment of the Board of Appeals, is of a
similar character with respect to the possible emission of dangerous or
offensive elements as the uses listed above.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-85 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal use
permitted outright in a G heavy manufacturing district shall be an accessory
use permitted outright.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-86 ACCESSORY CONDITIONAL USES.
   Any use, building or structure customarily incidental to a principal
conditional use in a G heavy manufacturing district shall be a conditional
accessory use.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-87 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses are prohibited in a G heavy manufacturing district.
   (a)   Dwellings. Dwellings and residences of any kind, including motels and
trailer parks, also schools, hospitals, clinics and other institutions for
human care, except where they are incidental to a permitted principal use;
provided, that any of the aforesaid uses legally existing in the G district on
April 26, 1968, or at the time of the adoption of any amendment to this
chapter, shall not be classified as a nonconforming use.
   (b)   Business and services. Retail business, personal and business service
establishments of any kind, except the following:
      (1)   Restaurants or cafeterias and refreshment or tobacco stands where
incidental and accessory to a principal use;
      (2)   Animal hospitals;
      (3)   Storage and equipment yards;
      (4)   Automobile service stations and repair garage; and
      (5)   Union halls.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2691, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 50-88 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   The required conditions in a G heavy manufacturing district shall be the
same as for an F district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XV-A. P PARKING DISTRICT
§ 50-88.1 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this P parking district to provide off-street parking
lots in residence districts where the parking lot is not accessory to a
principal permitted use or is physically separated from the principal permitted
use by a public right-of-way or parcel(s) of ownership.
(Ord. 3048, passed 10-12-1987)
§ 50-88.2 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE.
   Off-street parking lots for automobiles are permitted outright where:
   (a)   The parking is not accessory to a principal permitted use; or
   (b)   The parking lot is physically separated from the principal permitted
use by a public right-of-way or parcel of ownership.
(Ord. 3048, passed 10-12-1987)
§ 50-88.3 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   In addition to the parking lot development standards of this ordinance, an
applicant for a change in zoning to “P” shall submit with the rezoning
application a site plan developed pursuant to the requirements of §
50-8.3. This site plan shall become an integral apart of the rezoning
application but shall not require review and approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 3048, passed 10-12-1987)
ARTICLE XVI. GENERALLY APPLICABLE STANDARDS
§ 50-89 DESIGNATED; TABLES A AND B.
   The following standards for height, area and the like are applicable in the
designated districts set forth in Table A — Residence Districts and Table B —
Nonresidence Districts on the following pages.
TABLE A — GENERALLY APPLICABLE STANDARDS — RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
                           Lot Area         Maximum                 Minimum Side Yards
                                            Coverage
         Principal Maximum         Minimum                  Minimum               Sum   Minimum
District Use       Height  Minimum Lot Area Interior Corner Front           Least of    Rear    Courts
         Permitted         Lot     per      Lots     Lots   Yard    Stories Width Least Yard
                           Area    Dwelling                                       Width
                                   Unit
TABLE A — GENERALLY APPLICABLE STANDARDS — RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
                                 Lot Area           Maximum                 Minimum Side Yards
                                                    Coverage
         Principal    Maximum            Minimum                    Minimum
District Use          Height     Minimum Lot Area   Interior Corner Front                                                                                                             Minimum Rear Yard                                Courts
         Permitted               Lot     per        Lots     Lots   Yard    Stories Least Width                                      Sum of Least Width
                                 Area    Dwelling
                                         Unit
         Single-
         family low                                                                                                                                                                                                                    As per
A-1      density      2 stories  10,000  10,000 sq. 35%      35%    30 ft.  1 and 2 10 ft.                                           20 ft.                                           35 ft.                                           Building
         1-family     or 30 ft.  sq. ft. ft.                                stories                                                                                                                                                    Code
         detached
         dwellings
         Single-                                                            1 story 5 ft.                                            15 ft.                                           25 ft.
         family med.  2-1/       5,000   5,000 sq.                                                                                                                                                                                     As per
A-2      density      2 stories  sq. ft. ft.        50%      50%    25 ft.  2       6 ft.                                            16 ft.                                           30 ft.                                           Building
         A-1 district or 35 ft.                                             stories                                                                                                                                                    Code
         uses
         Two-family                                                         1 story 5 ft.                                            15 ft.                                           25 ft.
         A district   2-1/       5,000   2,500 sq.                                                                                                                                                                                     As per
B        uses:        2 stories  sq. ft. ft.        50%      50%    25 ft.  2       6 ft.                                            16 ft.                                           30 ft.                                           Building
         2-family     or 35 ft.                                             stories                                                                                                                                                    Code
         dwellings
         Townhouses                                                         1 story 10 ft.                                           20 ft.                                           25 ft.
         B district
         uses:        2-1/       5,000   2,400 sq.                                                                                                                                                                                     As per
B-1      3 or more    2 stories  sq. ft. ft.        40%      40%    25 ft.  2       10 ft.                                           20 ft.                                           30 ft.                                           Building
         detached     or 40 ft.                                             stories                                                                                                                                                    Code
         dwelling
         units
         Multifamily                                                        1 story 5 ft.                                            15 ft.                                           25 ft.
         walk-up                                                            2       6 ft.                                            16 ft.                                           30 ft.
         apartments                                                         stories
         B district                      800 sq.
         uses:                           ft. per
         Multifamily                     efficiency
         walk-ups,                       or 1-
         row houses,                     bedroom                                                                                                                                                                                       As per
C-1      rooming      3 stories  5,000   apartment; 35%      35%    20 ft.                                                                                                                                                             Building
         houses       or 40 ft.  sq. ft. 1,250 sq.                          3                                                                                                                                                          Code
         Home for                        ft. per 2-                         stories 10 ft.                                           20 ft.                                           35 ft.
         aged,                           or more
         institution,                    bedroom
         group                           apartment
         dwellings,
         fraternities
         and
         sororities
         Multifamily                     600 sq.                            1 and 2 5 ft.                                            15 ft.                                           15 ft.
         high density                    ft. per                            stories
         apartments   2 times            efficiency
         C-1 District the                or 1-
         uses:        distance           bedroom                                                                                                                                                                                       As per
C-2      Apartment    from       5,000   apartment; 30%      35%    20 ft.  3                                                                                                                                                          Building
         hotels,      building   sq. ft. 1,000 sq.                          stories Add’l 2 ft. for each add’l 5 ft. of building Add’l 4 ft. for each add’l 5 ft. of building Add’l 2 ft. for each add’l 5 ft. of building Code
         clubs and    line to            ft. per 2-                         and     height                                           height                                           height
         lodges,      centerline         or more                            over
         meeting      of street          bedroom
         places (non-                    apartment
         commercial)
 
(Ord. 2770, passed 6-9-1980; Ord. 2846, passed 7-26-1982; Ord. 2955, passed 6-
10-1985)
TABLE B — GENERALLY APPLICABLE STANDARDS — NONRESIDENCE DISTRICTS
                                                                      Minimum
                                                                      Side Yards
                           Lot Area                                   and Side
                                                                      Street Side
         Principal Maximum                  Maximum  Maximum  Minimum Yards       Minimum
District Use       Height          Minimum  Cubical  Coverage Front   Least Width Rear    Courts
         Permitted         Minimum Lot Area Contents          Yard    (Stories    Yard
                           Lot     per                                and Sum of
                           Area    Dwelling                           Least Width
                                   Unit                               Not
                                                                      Applicable)
TABLE B — GENERALLY APPLICABLE STANDARDS — NONRESIDENCE DISTRICTS
                                                                                                                                  Minimum
                                                                                                                                  Side Yards
                                                                                     Lot Area                                     and Side
                                                                                                                                  Street Side
         Principal Use                                                                                Maximum  Maximum  Minimum   Yards       Minimum
District Permitted      Maximum Height                                                       Minimum  Cubical  Coverage Front     Least Width Rear Yard Courts
                                                                                     Minimum Lot Area Contents          Yard      (Stories
                                                                                     Lot     per                                  and Sum of
                                                                                     Area    Dwelling                             Least Width
                                                                                             Unit                                 Not
                                                                                                                                  Applicable)
                                                                                                                        7 ft. or  Nonresidential
                                                                                                                        not less  Buildings and Parts
                                                                                                                        than the  of Buildings
         Professional                                                                                                   average
         and Business                                                                                                   setback
         Office:                                                                                                        of                              As per Building
         Medical and                                                                                                    existing  See notes   See notes Code
D-1      dental         30 ft.                                                       None             None     None     buildings at bottom   at bottom
         clinics,                                                                                                       in the
         offices for                                                                                                    same
         profession or                                                                                                  block
         business                                                                                                       front**
                                                                                                                        Residential Buildings and Parts of Building —
                                                                                                                        Same as least restricted adjoining residence
                                                                                                                        district
         Neighborhood                                                                                                             Nonresidential
         Business:                                                                                                      Same as   Buildings and Parts
         Neighborhood                                                                                                   D-1       of Buildings          Same as D- 1
         type retail                                                                                                              See notes   See notes
         stores                                                                                                                   at bottom   at bottom
         (supermarkets,
D-2      drugstores,    30 ft.                                                       None             None     None
         filling                                                                                                        Residential Buildings and Parts of Building —
         stations and                                                                                                   Same as least restricted adjoining residence
         the like)                                                                                                      district
         Adjoining
         residence
         district uses
         Community                                                                                                                Nonresidential
         Business:                                                                                                      Same as   Buildings and Parts
         D-1 District                                                                                                   D-1       of Buildings          Same as D- 1
         Uses:                                                                                                                    See notes   See notes
         Community type                                                                                                           at bottom   at bottom
D-3      retail stores  30 ft.                                                       None             None     None
         (variety, Jr.
         dept. stores)                                                                                                  Residential Buildings and Parts of Buildings —
         selected                                                                                                       Same as C-1 or least restricted adjoining
         services,                                                                                                      residence district
         automotive
         uses
                                                                                                      Equal to                    Nonresidential
         Metropolitan                                                                                 volume            None      Buildings and Parts   Same as D- 1
         Business:                                                                                    of a                        of Buildings
         Selected D-                                                                                  prism                       None        None
         3 Uses:                                                                                      with
D-4      Regional type  At street line 2 times the width of street right- of-way,    None             base =   None
         retail stores  add’l 1 ft. for each add’l 4 ft. of building height                       lot area
         (dept. stores,                                                                               height =          Residential Buildings and Parts of Buildings
         wholesale                                                                                    2-1/2 X           Prohibited — Except hotels
         offices,                                                                                     street
         hotels)                                                                                      right-
                                                                                                      of-way
         Metropolitan                                                                                 Equal to                    Nonresidential
         Commercial                                                                                   volume            Same as   Buildings and Parts
         Service:                                                                                     of a              D-1       of Buildings          Same as D- 1
         C-2, D-3, D-                                                                                 prism                       See notes   See notes
         4 District                                                                                   with                        at bottom   at bottom
D-5      uses:          Same as D-4                                                  None             base =   None
         Wholesale                                                                                    lot area
         business,                                                                                    height =          Residential Buildings and Parts of Buildings —
         parking                                                                                      2 X               Same as nonresidential
         garages and                                                                                  street
         lots, selected                                                                               right-
         manufacturing                                                                                of-way
         General and                                                                                                              Nonresidential
         Highway                                                                                                        Same as   Buildings and Parts
         Service:                                                                                                       D-1       of Buildings          Same as D- 1
         D-5 District                                                                                                             See notes   See notes
         Uses:                                                                                                                    at bottom   at bottom
D-6      Highway        30 ft.                                                       None             None     None
         service type
         uses, auto                                                                                                     Residential Buildings and Parts of Buildings —
         repair, motel,                                                                                                 Same as C-1
         drive-in
         facilities,
         trailer parks
         Commercial-                                                                                                              Nonresidential
         Manufacturing:                                                                                                 Same as   Buildings and Parts
         D-4 District                                                                                                   D-1       of Buildings          Same as D- 1
         Uses:                                                                                                                    See notes   See notes
         Heavy                                                                                                                    at bottom   at bottom
         commercial     None, except within 200 ft. of residence district, then
E        uses           equal to 5 ft. of height for each 4 ft. of distance from     None             None     None
         Light          residence district
         manufacturing                                                                                                  Residential Buildings and Parts of Buildings —
         uses                                                                                                           Prohibited
         Warehouses,
         freight
         terminals
                                                                                                                                  Nonresidential
                                                                                                                                  Buildings and Parts
                                                                                                                                  of Buildings
                                                                                                                                  None,       None,
         Intermediate                                                                                                             except      except
         Manufacturing:                                                                                                           adjoining   adjoining
         E District                                                                                                               residence   residence
         uses:                                                                                                          20 ft.    district,   district, Same as D- 1
F        Other          Same as E                                                    None             None     None               then equal  then
         manufacturing                                                                                                            to 4 ft.    equal to
         uses except                                                                                                              for each 5  4 ft. for
         these first                                                                                                              ft. of      each 5
         permitted in                                                                                                             housing     ft. of
         the G District                                                                                                           height, 20  building
                                                                                                                                  ft. min.    height 20
                                                                                                                                              ft. min.
                                                                                                                        Residential Buildings and Parts of Buildings —
                                                                                                                        Prohibited
                                                                                                                                  Nonresidential
                                                                                                                                  Buildings and Parts
                                                                                                                                  of Buildings
                                                                                                                                  None,       None,
         Heavy                                                                                                                    except      except
         Manufacturing:                                                                                                           adjoining   adjoining
         Manufacturing                                                                                                            residence   residence
         establishments                                                                                                 20 ft.    district,   district, Same as D- 1
G        of all types,  Same as E                                                    None             None     None               then equal  then
         and some                                                                                                                 to 4 ft.    equal to
         subject to                                                                                                               for each 5  4 ft. for
         distance                                                                                                                 ft. of      each 5
         requirements                                                                                                             building    ft. of
                                                                                                                                  height 30   building
                                                                                                                                  ft. min.    height 30
                                                                                                                                              ft. min.
                                                                                                                        Residential Buildings and Parts of Buildings —
                                                                                                                        Prohibited
 
 
Minimum Side Yards         Minimum Rear Yards          Minimum Side Street Side
                                                       Yards
1. None                    1. None                     1. Seven feet.
2. Except adjoining side-  2. Except where adjoining a
by-side a residence        required rear yard in a
district, then equal to    residence district, then
residence district         equal to 1 foot for each 1
requirements; and          foot of building height
                           exceeding 12-1/2 feet; and
3. Except in the case of a 3. Except where adjoining a
corner lot, no part of the side yard and/or front yard
building within 25 feet of in a residence district,
the adjoining property     then equal to the least
shall be located in front  side yard requirement of
of the setback line as     the adjacent residence
established by the         district.
adjoining property.
 
(Ord. 2506, passed 6-9-1975; Ord. 3334, passed 9-9-1996)
 
ARTICLE XVII. GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 50-90 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   (a)   The conversion of any building into a dwelling or the conversion of
any dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under this chapter and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in such district, with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, percentage of lot coverage, dimensions of yards and other open
spaces and off-street parking. Each conversion shall be subject also to such
further requirements as may be specified for such district.
   (b)   The aforesaid requirements with respect to lot coverage, yards and
other open spaces shall not apply in case the conversion is a part of a
dwelling group; also in case the conversion will not involve any major exterior
structural changes and:
      (1)   There is either a shortage of not more than 10% in the required
dimension or area of each of not more than two such requirements as to
coverage, yards and other open spaces; or
      (2)   In case the conversion will result in lot area per dwelling unit or
family at least 20% greater than required new buildings in the district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-90.1 STATE-LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES.
   A “state-licensed residential facility,” as defined by Act 28 of the Public
Acts of 1977, being MSA § 5.2933(2), as amended, which provides supervision or
care or both to six or less persons, shall be considered a residential use of
property for the purposes of this chapter. It shall be a permitted use in all
residential zones, including those for single-family dwellings and shall not be
subject to special use or conditional use permits or procedure different from
those required for other dwellings of similar density in the same zone;
provided, that such uses, with the exception of “foster family homes,” as
defined in Act 116 of the Public Acts of 1973, being MCLA §§ 722.111 through
722.128, and MSA § 25.358(11), as amended, as prohibited, within a 1,500 foot
radius of each other. And provided further, that the facilities which provide
the care to more than six persons and are otherwise permitted in any
residential district are also prohibited within a 1,500 foot radius of each
other.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2690, passed 2-12-1979)
§ 50-91 REAR DWELLINGS.
   No building in the rear of a principal building on the same lot shall be
used for residential purposes unless it conforms to all the yard and other open
space and off-street parking requirements of this chapter. For the purpose of
determining the front yard in such cases, the rear line of the required rear
yard for the principal building in front shall be considered the front lot line
for the building in the rear. In addition, there shall be provided for any such
rear dwelling, an unoccupied and unobstructed accessway not less than 20 feet
wide to a public street for each dwelling unit in the dwelling, or one not less
than 50 feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-92 TRANSITIONAL USES IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   In any residence district a transitional use shall be permitted on a lot,
the side lot line of which adjoins, either directly or across an alley, any D,
E, F or G district. The permitted transitional uses for any such lot in an A-
1 district shall be any use permitted in the A-2 district; the permitted
transitional uses for any lot in A-2 district shall be any use permitted in the
B district and the permitted transitional uses for any such lot in a C-
1 district shall be any use permitted in the C-2 district. In the case of any
such lot in an A-1, A-2, B and the like district, the requirements governing
lot area per dwelling unit, off-street parking, yards and other open spaces
shall be the same as for the next following less restricted district. Any
transitional use authorized under this section shall not extend more than 100
feet from the side lot line of the lot abutting on the zoning district boundary
line.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-93 YARD REQUIREMENTS ALONG ZONING BOUNDARY LINE IN LESS RESTRICTED
DISTRICT.
   Along any zoning boundary lines, on a lot adjoining such boundary line in
the less restricted district, any abutting side yard, rear yard or court,
unless subject to greater restrictions or requirements stipulated by other
provisions of this chapter, shall have a minimum width and depth equal to the
average of the required minimum width or depth for such side yards, rear yards
or courts in the two districts on either side of the zoning boundary line. In
cases where the height of a proposed structure on such lot in the less
restricted district is greater than the maximum height permitted in the
adjoining more restricted district, the minimum width or depth of the side
yard, rear yard or court for the structure shall be determined by increasing
the minimum width or depth for the highest structure permitted in the more
restricted district by one foot for each two feet by which the proposed
structure exceeds the maximum height permitted in the more restricted district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-94 ACCESSORY USES IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   (a)   Generally. An accessory building may be erected detached from the
principal building or may be erected as an integral part of the principal
building, or it may be connected therewith by a breezeway or similar structure.
      (1)   If connected or attached, the accessory building must be five feet
from any lot line. (See
Figure 50-94A.)
      (2)   No accessory building shall be erected in any front yard. (See
Figure 50-94A.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bf649bea18b3a11a1f89ec07cac3adc69557cd52/
IMAGES/0-0-0-20.jpg]
   Figure 50-94A
      (3)   No accessory building shall be erected in any required side yard
unless detached and at least 60 feet from the front lot line. (See
Figure 50-94B.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bf649bea18b3a11a1f89ec07cac3adc69557cd52/
IMAGES/0-0-0-22.jpg]
   Figure 50-94B
      (4)   Accessory buildings shall be at least:
         a.   Five feet from any dwelling situated on the same lot, unless
attached thereto;
         b.   At least five feet from any other accessory buildings on the same
lot; and
         c.   At least ten feet from any dwelling located on an adjoining lot.
This shall not prevent a dwelling on an adjoining lot from being built less
than ten feet from an accessory building on the adjoining lot. If a dwelling is
built on an adjoining lot less than ten feet from an existing accessory
building, both buildings will be considered legal conforming structures and can
be rebuilt if they are damaged or destroyed.
      (5)   In no case shall an accessory building be closer than 18 feet from
the side street lot line.
   (b)   Corner lots. In any residence district, where a corner lot adjoins on
the rear of a lot fronting on the side street and located in a residence
district:
      (1)   No part of an accessory building on such corner lot within 25 feet
of a common lot line shall be nearer a side street lot line than the least
depth of the front yard required along such side street for a dwelling on such
adjoining lot, and in no case shall any part of the accessory building be
nearer to the side street lot line than the least width of the side yard or 18
feet, whichever is the greater. (See
Figure 50-94C.)
      (2)   No part of an accessory building on such corner lot shall be less
than five feet from the common lot line, unless 60 feet or more from the side
street line. (See
Figure 50-94C.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bf649bea18b3a11a1f89ec07cac3adc69557cd52/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.jpg]
   Figure 50-94C
   (c)   Yard requirements. If attached, an accessory building may extend into
the required rear yard, and if used for automobile parking or storage the
minimum side yard’s least width may apply to both side yard requirements.
   (d)   Erection without main building. In any residence district, no
accessory building or structure shall be erected or constructed prior to the
erection or construction of the principal or main building.
   (e)   Removal of main building. In any residence district, no existing main
building may be demolished or removed from a lot while an existing accessory
structure is retained unless:
      (1)   The lot is combined with an adjacent lot that has a principal
building on it; or
      (2)   A new main building is constructed or moved onto the lot, or a
building permit for the purpose of constructing or moving a main building on
the lot is in effect.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2063, passed 7-1-1968; Ord. 2284, passed 9-
20-1971; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982; Ord. 3703, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 50-94.1 SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNAS AS ACCESSORY USES.
   No satellite television antenna shall be erected, constructed, maintained or
operated except in conformance with the following regulations.
   (a)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to regulate satellite
television antennas as accessory structures consistent with the preservation of
health, safety, welfare and rights of all residents of the City.
   (b)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNA. An apparatus capable of receiving
communications from a transmitter relay signal in planetary orbit.
   (c)   Location.
      (1)   No part of the satellite antenna structure, including the base and
other appurtenances, may project over or onto a:
         a.   Required front yard;
         b.   Required side yard; or
         c.   Required interior yard (unless 60 feet or more back from the
front property line and then no closer than five feet to a lot line).
      (2)   Rear yard locations are allowed provided that no part of the
satellite antenna structure, including the base and other appurtenances, is
closer than five feet to a lot line.
   (d)   Height. The height of antenna and structure shall not exceed total
height requirement for the district.
   (e)   Size. No limit.
   (f)   Roof mounting. Allowed pursuant to subsection (d) of this section if
permit obtained from the Division of Building and Safety Inspection, which will
review erection for conformance with the applicable building and electrical
codes.
   (g)   Advertising. No advertising indicating the manufacturer or installer
shall be allowed on any antenna if visible from a public right-of-way and/or
adjoining property.
(Ord. 3019, passed 11-24-1986)
§ 50-95 LOT AREA EXCEPTION.
   In any district where dwellings are permitted, a one-family detached
dwelling may be erected on any lot of official record on April 26, 1968,
irrespective of its area or width; provided, that the applicable yard and other
open space requirements as may be modified hereinafter are complied with;
provided further, that:
   (a)   Minimum side yards. Not less than 10% of lot width.
   (b)   Public sanitary facilities not available. In any district where
neither public water supply nor public sanitary sewer is accessible, the lot
area and frontage requirements otherwise specified shall be increased as
follows:
      (1)   Where both public sewerage and public water supply are not
accessible:
 
Minimum lot area 20,000 sq. feet
Frontage         100 feet
 
      (2)   Where public water supply is accessible, but where public sewerage
is not accessible:
 
Minimum lot area 10,000 sq. feet
Frontage         100 feet
 
      (3)   Where different lot area requirements are recommended by the State
Board of Health on the basis of percolation tests or other method, those
requirements shall govern.
   (c)   Consideration of open space and the like. The Building Inspector shall
examine and determine if the proposed construction arrangement gives adequate
consideration to maximizing open space for light and air upon the land area
available, and attainment of the other objectives of this chapter. If the
Building Inspector shall find that such consideration has not been given in any
case he or she shall refer the application to the Board of Appeals which shall
review the matter and may impose conditions if it finds them to be necessary in
the best interests of the proper enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2252, passed 3-15-1971)
§ 50-96 AVERAGE DEPTH OF FRONT YARDS.
   In any residence district, where the front yards of existing principal
buildings in the same block front are greater or less than the minimum required
front yards for such district, the required front yard depth shall be modified
as follows: Any principal building erected or altered after April 26, 1969, on
a lot in such a block front shall provide a minimum front yard at least equal
to the average setback of the two nearest principal buildings to each side of
such lot in the same block front. If no existing front yard of a principal
building exists to one side or the other of such lot in the same block front,
the minimum setback for the district shall be used in computing the average
setback, except in the case of a corner lot having a front yard in the same
block front, the setback of the lot shall not be less than the setback of the
nearest principal building in the same block front; provided the depth of a
front yard on any lot shall be at least ten feet and need not exceed 50 feet.
   (a)   Steep slopes, front yard garage. In any residence district where the
natural grade of a lot within the required front yard has an average slope,
normal to the front lot line at every point along the line, of such a degree or
percent of slope that it is not practicable to provide a driveway with a grade
of 12% or less to a private garage conforming to the requirements of this
chapter, such garage may be located within such front yard, but no in any case
closer than six feet to the street line.
   (b)   Double frontage lots. Front yards on both streets shall be required,
where on a given block face there are dwellings addressing off both streets.
There shall be no vehicle access to an accessory building from more than one
street unless authorized by the Traffic Engineer of the City, who shall review
the second access in relation to traffic flow, movement and safety and find
that there will not be an adverse effect. In no case shall an accessory
building with vehicle access across the rear lot line be nearer than 18 feet
from the rear lot line. See Appendix,
Illustration 50-96(b), “Typical locations of accessory buildings on double
frontage lots,” at the end of this chapter.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982)
§ 50-97 COMPUTATION OF REAR YARD DEPTH AND SIDE YARD WIDTH.
   In computing the depth of a rear yard or the width of a side yard, where the
rear or side yard abuts an alley, one-half of the width of the alley may be
included as a portion of the required rear or side yard, as the case may be.
However, in no event shall any building or structure be erected closer than
five feet from any lot line.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-98 SIDE YARD MODIFICATIONS.
   (a)   Side yard increased. Each side yard where required, shall be increased
in width by one-half inch for each foot by which the length of the side wall of
the building, adjacent to the side yard, exceeds 50 feet, for each story of
building height.
   (b)   Side yard, corner lot. A side yard along the side street lot line of a
corner lot shall have a width of not less than one-half the required depth of
the front yard, but in no case shall a building width of less than 24 feet be
required.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-99 PROJECTION OF ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
   Certain architectural features may project into required yards or courts as
follows.
   (a)   Front and side yards.
      (1)   Required yards. In any required front yard, or required side yard
adjoining a side street lot line, cornices, canopies, eaves or other
architectural features may project a distance not exceeding three feet, except
as provided for in subsection (a)(2) below. Fire escapes may project a distance
not exceeding four feet, six inches. An uncovered stair, necessary landings and
ramps may project a distance not to exceed 44 inches; provided, that the stair
and landing shall not extend above the entrance floor of the building, except
for an open railing not exceeding three feet, six inches in height. Bay
windows, balconies and chimneys may project a distance not exceeding three
feet; provided that such features do not occupy, in aggregate, more than one-
third of the length of the building wall on which they are located.
      (2)   Front yards only. In any residential district, in any required
front yard, a porch may project a distance not exceeding eight feet. This porch
may be covered with an awning or other type of roof projection not exceeding
nine feet. The covered porch shall remain open between the floor line and eave
line, except for an open railing not exceeding three feet, six inches in
height. In no case shall the projection be nearer than ten feet to the front
lot line. An uncovered stair, necessary landing and ramp may project a distance
not to exceed 44 inches beyond the covered porch, but in no case may be nearer
than ten feet to the front lot line.
   (b)   Interior side yards. Subject to the limitations above, the above named
features may project into any required side yard adjoining an interior side lot
line, a distance not to exceed one-fifth of the required least width of the
side yard, but not exceeding three feet, in any case.
   (c)   Rear yards. Subject to the limitation above, the features therein may
project into any required rear yards, the same distance they are permitted to
project into a front yard.
   (d)   Existing porches. All covered porches may be enclosed; provided, that
at least 50% of the total area of the front and two sides, between the floor
line and eave line, shall be limited to screen or window.
   (e)   Exceptions.  Handicap ramps to be added to existing one- and two-
family residential structures. Uncovered ramps designed for the handicapped
shall not be constructed or extended closer than five feet from any lot line,
but are exempt from all other projection limitations of this section, and must
conform to all other Federal, State or local requirements.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2616, passed 11-28-1977; Ord. 2881, passed
7-11-1983; Ord. 2887, passed 12-12-1983; Ord. 3266, passed 1-24-1994)
ARTICLE XVIII. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
§ 50-100 SUBMISSION OF PLANS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF CERTAIN TRACTS.
   In any A-1 district or A-2 district, the owners of a tract of unimproved
land comprising not less than ten acres, and in any A-2 district, the owners of
a tract of land comprising not less than eight acres, and in any B district,
the owners of any tract of land comprising not less than five acres, and in any
C-1 and C-2 district, the owners of a tract of land comprising not less than
three acres may submit to the Planning Commission a plan for the use and
development of all of the tract of land for residential purposes of for the
repair or alteration of any existing housing development on the tract.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2795, passed 5-26-1981)
§ 50-101 STANDARDS FOR PLAN.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to investigate and ascertain
whether the proposed residential development plan complies with the following
conditions.
   (a)   Consistency with zoning regulations.  That the plan is consistent with
the intent and purpose of this chapter (i.e., the zoning ordinance and any
amendments thereto).
   (b)   Adjacent property, no adverse effect. That property adjacent to the
area included in the plan will not be adversely affected.
   (c)   Residential use only. That the buildings are to be used only for
residential purposes and usual accessory uses, such as garages, storage space,
recreational and community activities, including churches, and such other uses
as accessory uses as may be permitted outright or conditionally in the district
where located.
   (d)   Lot area per family. That the average lot area per family or dwelling
unit contained in the site, exclusive of the area of streets, will not be less
than 80% of the lot area per family required in the district in which the site
is located.
   (e)   Off-street parking. That there are to be provided off-street parking
facilities in accordance with the off-street parking requirements of this
chapter.
   (f)   Coverage. 25%.
   (g)   Recreational facilities. That there are to be provided, as a part of
the proposed development, recreational facilities to serve the needs of the
anticipated population to be housed therein as follows.
      (1)   Recreation area, projects over 20 acres. In case any lot or tract
on which a residence development or dwelling group is to be erected contains 20
acres or more, at least 5% of the acreage of the lot shall be set aside and
developed as a neighborhood playground or playgrounds.
      (2)   Recreation area, projects under 20 acres. In case of a lot under 20
acres in area with more than 50 dwelling units, the required area of play lots
shall be 2,000 square feet plus 30 square feet for each dwelling unit in excess
of 50.
      (3)   Recreation area, modification. These requirements for the provision
of recreation areas may be modified or waived by the Planning Commission where
adequate public recreation areas are available nearby, or where justified in
view of the availability of suitable yard space of the type of occupancy the
dwelling units are designed to accommodate.
   (h)   Planning Commission may authorize project. Following a public hearing
by the Planning Commission, and if the Commission finds that the proposed
residence development plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of this
chapter, it may authorize the Building Inspector to issue a zoning certificate,
even though the use of the land and location of the building to be erected and
the yards and open spaces contemplated by the plan do not conform in all
respects to the regulations of this chapter for the district in which the site
of the proposed development is located.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2795, passed 5-26-1981; Ord. 2845, passed 7-
26-1982)
ARTICLE XIX. DWELLING GROUPS
§ 50-102 STANDARDS GENERALLY.
   A zoning certificate for the erection of a dwelling group, in those
districts where permitted, may be issued by the Building Inspector; provided,
that the dwelling group conforms to all the following conditions and
requirements.
   (a)   Minimum lot area. The area of the lot on which the dwelling group is
to be erected shall be at least 20% greater than the aggregate of the minimum
lot areas otherwise required for the individual dwellings in the group.
   (b)   Dwelling to front on street or other open spaces, distances.
      (1)   Each dwelling in the group shall front either on a street, or other
permanent public open space at least 40 feet wide, or on a common yard or outer
court. The least width of such yard, if flanked by buildings on one side only,
shall be:
 
1 – 1-1/2 storie30 feet
2 – 2-1/2 storie35 feet
3 stories         40 feet
 
      (2)   If flanked by buildings on both sides, the least width of such
yards shall be:
 
1 – 1-1/2 storie40 feet
2 – 2-1/2 storie50 feet
3 stories         60 feet
 
      (3)   In each case the distance between the principal buildings, other
than the distances specified above, shall not be less than the sum of the least
widths of side yards required in the district in which the dwelling group is to
be located.
      (4)   The distance between principal buildings and the nearest lot lines,
other than a front lot line, shall be not less than the height of the building,
nor less than 30 feet in any case.
   (c)   Access road distance. Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be
within 60 feet of an access roadway or drive having a right-of-way at least 20
feet wide, providing vehicular access from a public street, and within 300
feet, measured along the route of vehicular access, from a public street.
   (d)   Compliance, other chapter requirements. Except as modified herein,
such dwelling group shall conform to all the requirements of this chapter for
the district in which it is to be located.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XX. TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS, MOTELS AND MOTOR HOTELS
§ 50-103 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The sanitary regulations prescribed by the State Board of Health or other
authority having jurisdiction, the regulations of the Building Code of the City
and as may be otherwise required by law shall be complied with in addition to
the following regulations.
   (a)   Lot area occupancy. The buildings, cabins and trailers, mobile homes,
recreation vehicles in any tourist camp, trailer park, mobile home park, or
motel, together with any nonaccessory buildings already on the lot, shall not
occupy in the aggregate more than 25% of the area of the lot.
   (b)   Parking. All areas used for automobile access and parking shall comply
with the applicable provisions of this chapter concerning off-street parking
and loading.
   (c)   Entrance. No vehicular entrance to or exit from any trailer park or
motel, wherever such may be located, shall be within 200 feet along streets
from any school, public playground, church, hospital, library or institution
for dependents or for children, except where the property is in another block
or another street which the premises in question do not abut.
   (d)   Landscaping, unused areas.  All areas used for access, parking,
circulation, buildings and service shall be completely and permanently
landscaped and the entire site maintained in good condition.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 50-104 ENLARGEMENTS OR EXTENSIONS.
   (a)   Any enlargement or extension to any existing motel, mobile home park,
tourist camp or trailer park shall require application for a zoning
certificate, as if it were a new establishment.
   (b)   No enlargement or extensions to any motel, trailer park or tourist
camp, or mobile home park shall be permitted unless the existing one is made to
conform to substantially with all the requirements for new construction for
such establishment.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 50-105 PARKING OR OCCUPYING TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME OR RECREATION VEHICLE
OUTSIDE OF APPROVED TRAILER PARK, MOBILE HOME PARK PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (a)   Purpose. To regulate the storage and parking for recreation and
camping equipment, as defined, in the same manner as other accessory or
incidental uses, with due regard to the unique public safety issues associated
with these uses such as maintenance of clear vision areas near public rights-
of-way.
   (b)   Definitions. As used in this chapter, RECREATION AND CAMPING EQUIPMENT
is and shall include the following.
      FOLDING TENT TRAILER. A canvas folding structure mounted on wheels and
designed for travel and vacation use.
      MOTOR HOME. A portable dwelling designed and constructed as an integral
part of a self-propelled vehicle.
      PICKUP CAMPER. A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a pickup
or truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for use as
a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation use.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses permanently identified “travel trailer” by the manufacturer.
      WATERCRAFT and WATERCRAFT TRAILERS. Boats, floats and rafts, plus the
normal equipment to transport the same on the highway.
   (c)   Generally. No person shall park nor occupy any trailer, mobile home or
recreation and camping equipment on any premises outside an approved trailer
park or mobile home park except as previously authorized in this chapter.
Recreation and camping equipment defined as travel trailers, pickup campers,
motor homes, folding tent trailers, and watercraft trailers may be parked on
any residential property subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Such equipment stored or parked shall not have fixed connections to
electricity, water, gas or sanitary sewer facilities, and at no time shall this
equipment be used for living or housekeeping purposes.
      (2)   If the equipment is to be unused for a period exceeding 30 days,
the following conditions shall apply:
         a.   All batteries shall be removed from the equipment to prevent
short circuits; and
         b.   All tanks containing flammable substances must be locked from the
outside to prevent tampering.
      (3)   If the equipment is stored or parked outside of a garage, it must
be stored or parked to the rear of the front building line as established by
the principal accessory structure and not in a required side street sideyard or
required interior sideyard, except as modified. Storage or parking in a
required interior sideyard is allowed if located at least 60 feet behind the
front property line and no closer than five feet to a side or rear lot line or
on the principal driveway to the rear of the front building line established.
   (d)   Emergency parking. Emergency or temporary stopping, standing or
parking of a trailer shall be permitted on any street, alley or highway subject
to any regulations, or limitations imposed by the traffic and parking
regulations or ordinances for the street, alley or highway.
   (e)   Wheels not be removed. In any district except as previously required,
the wheels or any similar transporting devices of any trailer shall not be
removed except for repairs, nor shall any trailer, unless as previously
required, be otherwise permanently fixed to the ground in a manner that would
prevent removal of the trailer.
   (f)   Parking or storage of mobile homes prohibited. The parking or storage
of a mobile home, being a movable or portable dwelling, constructed to be towed
on its own chassis and connected to utilities and designed without a permanent
foundation for year-round living, is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982; Ord. 2901, passed 4-
9-1984; Ord. 2931, passed 1-15-1985)
§ 50-106 APPLICATION FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF TRAILER PARK OR MOBILE HOME PARK.
   An application for the establishment of a trailer park or mobile home park
shall be filed with the Building Inspector and shall be accompanied by a scale
drawing certified by a registered civil engineer. Such drawing shall contain
the following information:
   (a)   Accurate dimensions of the proposed trailer park or mobile home park
in feet;
   (b)   All roads and approaches and the method of ingress and egress from
public highways;
   (c)   The complete electric service installation, wire service outlets and
lighting facilities;
   (d)   A complete layout of unit parking places and the number of square feet
therein, together with the dimensions thereof; and
   (e)   The location of electric power or gas distribution systems, water
mains or wells for water supply outlets for domestic water users, location of
sanitary facilities, washrooms, garbage disposal units, incinerators, sanitary
sewers or septic tanks, sewer drain lines, leeching beds, fire protection
stalls and other buildings or structures contemplated to be used by the
applicant in connection with such business.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
§ 50-107 TRAILER PARK OR MOBILE HOME PARK DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Trailer parks or mobile home parks shall be designed and maintained in
accordance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Park area. The minimum trailer park or mobile home area shall be
40,000 square feet.
   (b)   Lot area. The minimum lot area per trailer or mobile home shall be
2,000 square feet.
   (c)   Distance between trailers or mobile homes. The minimum distance
between neighboring trailers or mobile homes shall be not less than 20 feet.
Each trailer or mobile home unit shall be set back not less than ten feet from
the exterior lines of the trailer or mobile home unit lot upon which it is
located.
   (d)   Concrete slab. Each trailer or mobile home unit lot shall be equipped
with a concrete slab of sufficient size to support the wheels and the front
parking jack. Such slab shall have a minimum horizontal dimension of eight by
ten feet and a minimum thickness of four inches.
   (e)   Utilities. Each trailer or mobile home unit shall be equipped with one
electric outlet. A sanitary sewer and water system shall be installed in
accordance with City specifications. Trailer or mobile home units not directly
connected with the water and sewer system shall be located not more than 200
feet from a community utility building providing separate toilet and shower
facilities for each sex.
   (f)   Interior streets. The minimum width of interior one-way streets with
parking permitted on one side shall be 21 feet. The minimum width of two-way
streets with parking permitted on one side shall be 26 feet. Such streets shall
be graveled or paved maintained in good condition and lighted at night.
   (g)   Length of occupancy. No trailer or mobile home shall remain in a
trailer park or mobile home park for a period exceeding 15 days without
connection to the permanent sanitary sewer system of the park.
   (h)   Additional requirements. In addition to the foregoing, the Board may
impose such other conditions, requirements or limitations concerning the
design, development and operation of such trailer park or mobile home parks
necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2829, passed 3-22-1982)
ARTICLE XXI. INTEGRATED NEIGHBORHOOD AND COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTERS
§ 50-108 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN; MINIMUM AREAS.
   The owner of a tract of land, located in any district at or near where a
proposed shopping center is shown on the land use plan, containing not less
than two acres in the case of a neighborhood shopping center, neighborhood
business district type D-2, and not less than 15 acres in the case of a
community shopping center, community business district D-3, may submit to the
Planning Commission for its review a preliminary plan for the use and
development of such tract of land for an integrated shopping center.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-109 TIME FOR STARTING AND COMPLETING CONSTRUCTION.
   In accepting a plan for review under §
50-108, the Planning Commission shall be satisfied that the proponents of the
integrated shopping center into to start construction within two years if a
neighborhood shopping center and three years if a community shopping center
from the date of the approval of the project and necessary district change, and
intend to complete it within a reasonable period of time as determined by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-110 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR PLAN.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to investigate and ascertain
whether the location, size and other characteristics of the site, and the
proposed plan, comply with the following conditions.
   (a)   Site adequacy. That the proposed shopping center is adequate, but not
excessive, in size to provide adequate shopping facilities for the population
which reasonably may be expected to be served by the proposed shopping center.
   (b)   Traffic congestion. That the proposed shopping center is at a location
where traffic congestion does not exist at present on the streets to be
utilized for access to the proposed shopping center, and where such congestion
will not likely be created by the proposed center; or where such existing or
possible future congestion will be obviated by presently projected improvement
of access thoroughfares or by demonstrable provisions in the plan for proper
entrances and exits, and by internal provisions for traffic and parking.
   (c)   Thoroughfare access required. That any neighborhood shopping center
will abut and front a street designated in the official major street plan as a
secondary or primary thoroughfare or designated by the Planning Commission as a
local or collector street as defined in the subdivision regulations; and any
community shopping center shall abut and front on a street designated in such
plan as a primary thoroughfare.
   (d)   Integrated design. The plan provides for a shopping center consisting
of one or more groups of establishments in buildings of integrated and
harmonious design, together with adequate and properly arranged traffic and
parking facilities adequate provisions for drainage and landscaping. The
project shall be arranged in an attractive and efficient manner, convenient,
pleasant and safe to use, and fitting harmoniously into surrounding properties.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-111 PERMITTED USES.
   The uses permitted in an integrated shopping center shall be appropriate to
the specific functions thereof. In the case of a neighborhood shopping center
the allowable uses shall be those permitted in the D-2 district. In the case of
a community shopping center the allowable uses shall be those permitted in the
D-3 district; provided, that no residential, heavy, commercial or industrial
uses shall be permitted in any shopping center. Only those uses shall be
authorized which are necessary or desirable to supply with goods or services
the surrounding neighborhood or community, as the case may be. All uses
authorized in this manner shall be in harmony with the design of the center and
the environs thereof.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-112 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to an integrated shopping center.
   (a)   Building height. No building shall exceed two stores or 30 feet in
height.
   (b)   Yards. No building shall be less than 50 feet distant from any
boundary of the tract or site on which the shopping center is located. The
center shall be permanently screened from all adjoining properties located in
any residence district, and except for necessary entrances and exits, from all
properties located in any residence district across the street and within 100
feet from such center. The type and nature of the screening shall be determined
by the Planning Commission.
   (c)   Tract coverage. The ground area occupied by all the buildings shall
not exceed in the aggregate 25% of the total area of the tract or site.
   (d)   Customer parking space. Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
chapter, there shall be provided at least two square feet of off-street parking
area, including driveways from every square foot of total floor space, not
including storage space, in an integrated neighborhood shopping center; and
three square feet of off-street parking area for every square foot of total
floor space, not including storage space, in a community shopping center.
   (e)   Loading space. Notwithstanding any other requirements of this chapter,
there shall be provided one off-street loading space for each 10,000 square
feet or fraction thereof of aggregate floor space of all buildings in the
center. At least one-third of the space required shall be sufficient in area
and vertical clearance to accommodate trucks of the tractor-trailer type.
   (f)   Illumination. Accessways and parking areas shall be adequately lighted
by lighting fixtures which shall be so installed as to reflect light away from
adjoining properties.
   (g)   Signs. Subject to approval by the Planning Commission, all signs
within the center shall be controlled by written agreement between the owners
and tenants of the center, or otherwise, with the view to preventing excessive
advertising and ensure a harmonious appearance of the center as a whole.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-113 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Upon determination by the Planning Commission that the proposed integrated
shopping center as shown in the preliminary plan appears to conform to the
requirements of this article and all other applicable requirements of this
chapter, the proponents shall prepare and submit a final development plan,
which plan shall incorporate any changes or modifications required by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-114 RECOMMENDATIONS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   If the final development plan is found to comply with the requirements in
this article and other applicable provisions of this chapter, the Planning
Commission shall submit the plan, its report and recommendations to the City
Council together with the required application by the proponents for the
necessary change in zoning classification of the site of the proposed center.
The City Council shall hold a public hearing on both the development plan and
application for a zoning district change.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-115 REZONING.
   Following the public hearing, the City Council may modify the plan,
consistent with the intent and meaning of this chapter, and may rezone the
property to a classification permitting the proposed center for development in
substantial conformity with the final plan as approved by the City Council;
provided, that all procedures relative to amendments to this chapter shall be
followed in that case.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-116 ADJUSTMENTS IN PLAN FOLLOWING APPROVAL.
   After the final development plan has been approved by the City Council and
in the course of carrying out this plan, adjustments or rearrangements of
buildings, parking areas, loading areas, entrances, height or yards may be
requested by the proponents, and provided such requests conform to the
standards, established by the final development plan and this chapter, such
adjustments or rearrangements may be authorized by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XXII. PLANNED SHOPPING AREA EXTENSION
§ 50-117 PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   It shall be an aim of this article to facilitate and encourage the
modernization of existing neighborhood and community shopping areas with the
view to helping to create conditions in such areas which will as nearly as
possible approximate those found in integrated shopping centers, hereby to
promote the public safety, convenience and general welfare.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-118 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The owner of a tract of land of one acre or more in aggregate area adjoining
and being contiguous to any D-2 or D-3 district, indicated in the land use plan
as suitable for planned extension or modernization, may submit to the Planning
Commission for its review a preliminary plan for integrated commercial
development thereof.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-119 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   The development plan shall meet substantially the same requirements and
standards as stipulated in this chapter for integrated shopping centers, and
shall be processed in the same manner; provided, that primary or secondary
thoroughfare frontage shall not be required; and provided further, that parking
and loading facilities may be integrated with any existing parking and loading
facilities.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XXIII. PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 50-120 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   The owner of a tract of undeveloped land or land cleared for redevelopment
of 20 acres or more which is suited for light industrial development may submit
to the Planning Commission for its review a preliminary plan for the use and
development thereof for a planned industrial district regardless of the zoning
classification of the tract at the time the plan is filed.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-121 GENERAL CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to ascertain that the
proposed project will comply with the following conditions.
   (a)   Integrated design. That the plan provides for an industrial district
consisting of several buildings or groups of buildings of efficient and
harmonious design, together with properly arranged trafficway, parking and
loading facilities and landscaping, so arranged as to create an attractive
project readily integrated with and fitting harmoniously into adjoining or
surrounding areas and developments.
   (b)   Thoroughfare access required. That the industrial district will abut a
street designated in the official major street plan as a primary or secondary
thoroughfare, or that direct access to the street is provided by means of an
acceptable industrial service street.
   (c)   Uses, design standards and improvements.  That the proposed uses
accord with the uses permitted and that the layout of the proposed industrial
district and the proposed improvement requirements stipulated in this chapter.
   (d)   Applicant.  The Planning Commission shall be satisfied that
construction will start within one year of approval and a substantial part of
the project will be completed within a reasonable time limit as specified by
the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-122 PERMITTED USES.
   Any use permitted and as regulated in the E and F districts, except uses
prohibited therein shall be permitted in a planned industrial district;
provided, that any distance requirements and other standards of such districts
may be modified by the Planning Commission if, in its judgment, other
satisfactory arrangements are provided for which, among other beneficial
effects will afford properties, located in the adjacent zoning districts to
which the distance requirements or other standards are primarily applicable,
protection against possible adverse effects equivalent to the protection
intended to be provided by means of the distance requirements or other
standards.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-123 PROHIBITED USES.
   Residential and retail business uses of any kind, except when accessory to a
permitted principal use, shall be prohibited in a planned industrial district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-124 GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS AND IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum design standards shall be observed in a planned
industrial district, and the owner or developer shall post with the Planning
Commission an adequate surety bond or furnish other kind of surety or
guarantee, satisfactory to the Planning Commission, assuring at the expense of
the owner or developer the installation of improvements specified in the
following.
   (a)   Rights-of-way and pavements. All interior streets shall have a right-
of-way width of not less than 80 feet, and shall be provided with all-weather
pavement, curb and gutter meeting City specifications.
   (b)   Utilities. All necessary utilities shall be installed meeting City
specifications.
   (c)   Off-street parking. Employee parking, one space for each two employees
on the maximum shift. Visitor parking at least ten spaces per plant.
   (d)   Loading facilities. To be determined according to type of industry;
shall be off-street and of sufficient size to accommodate normal peak loads.
   (e)   Plant vehicle storage. Sufficient to accommodate off-street all plant
vehicles.
   (f)   Paving off-street areas. All off-street parking, loading and
maneuvering areas shall be surfaced with hard-surface pavement.
   (g)   Lot area. Minimum 20,000 square feet.
   (h)   Building height limit. 35 feet within 200 feet of any residence
district.
   (i)   Distance of buildings from project boundary. If adjoining residence
district, 100 feet; if adjoining D business districts, 50 feet.
   (j)   Landscaping for unsurfaced areas. All unpaved areas shall be
landscaped subject to Planning Commission approval.
   (k)   Greenbelts. The project areas shall be enclosed on all sides by a
planted strip at least 20 feet wide or of such greater width which in the
opinion of the Planning Commission may be necessary for the adequate protection
of adjoining premises. The plant material, subject to Planning Commission
approval, shall have initially a height and compactness of not more than 50% of
the ultimately required height and compactness.
   (l)   Outdoor advertising. Shall be prohibited, except that each industry
may have suitable identifying signs.
   (m)   Illumination. Lighting fixtures shall be so installed as to reflect
the lights away from adjacent properties.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-125 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Upon determination by the Planning Commission that the proposed planned
industrial district as shown in the preliminary plan appears to conform to the
requirements in this article and all other applicable requirements of this
chapter, the proponents shall submit a final development plan, which plan shall
incorporate any change or modifications required by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-126 RECOMMENDATIONS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   If the final plan is found to be in compliance with the requirements of this
article, the Planning Commission shall submit the plan, its report and
recommendations to the City Council, together with an application by the
proponents for the necessary appropriate change in zoning district
classification of the site of the proposed planned industrial district. The
City Council shall hold a public hearing on both the plan and the application
for zoning district change.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-127 REZONING.
   Following the public hearing, the City Council may modify the plan,
consistent with the intent of this chapter, and may change the zoning of the
site to the appropriate zoning district clarification; provided, that all
procedures relative to amendments to this chapter shall be followed in all
cases.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-128 ADJUSTMENTS FOLLOWING APPROVAL OF PLAN.
   After the final development plan has been approved by the City Council and
in the course of carrying out the plan, minor adjustments and rearrangements of
buildings, service areas and other features requested by the developers may be
authorized by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XXIV. HEIGHT AND YARD MODIFICATIONS
§ 50-129 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS NOT APPLICABLE.
   The height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this chapter shall not apply
to the following.
   (a)   Farm buildings, architectural features and the like. Barns, silos and
other farm buildings or structures on farms; to church spires, belfries,
cupolas and domes, monuments, water towers, fire and hose towers, observation
towers, transmission towers, windmills, chimneys, smokestacks, flag poles,
radio towers, masts and aerials; to parapet walls extending not more than four
feet above the limiting height of the buildings and the like.
   (b)   Places of public assembly.  Places of public assembly in churches,
schools and other permitted public and semi-public buildings, provided, that
these are located on the first floor of the buildings and provided that for
each three feet by which the height of the building exceeds the maximum height
otherwise permitted in the district, its side and rear yards shall be increased
in width or depth by an additional foot over the side and rear yards required
for the highest building otherwise permitted in the district.
   (c)   Elevator penthouses, water tanks and the like. Bulkheads, elevator
penthouses, water tanks, monitors and scenery lofts, provided no linear
dimensions of any such structure exceeds 50% of the corresponding street lot
line frontage; or to towers and monuments, fire towers, hose towers, cooling
towers, grain elevators, gas holders or other structures, where the
manufacturing process requires a greater height.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2503, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 50-130 MINIMUM HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   All structures listed in §
50-129 above the heights otherwise permitted in the district shall not occupy
more than 25% of the area of the lot, and unless modified by the Board, shall
be not less than 50 feet in all parts from every lot line not a street lot
line.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2503, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 50-131 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR D-1, D-2, D-3 AND D-6 DISTRICTS.
   Structures in D-1, D-2, D-3 and D-6 districts may be built to a height of 35
feet where these districts adjoin a C-1 or C-2 district.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2503, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 50-131.1 YARD MODIFICATIONS IN COMMERCIAL AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   (a)   In any commercial and manufacturing district where there are front
yards of existing buildings in the same block front which are greater or less
than the minimum required front yard for that district, the required front yard
depth shall be modified as follows: the front yard of any building hereafter
erected or altered on a lot in such a block front which is located between
existing buildings on both sides of the lot shall be as great but need not be
greater than that of a line drawn between the two nearest front corners of the
existing buildings on either sides. In the case where there is an existing
building on one side only, the front yard of the building to be erected or
altered shall be as great but need not be greater than that of the next
adjoining building; provided, however, that where front yards so modified are
greater than the required minimum front yard, the front yard may be further
modified by lessening the front yard by one foot for each ten feet between the
nearest front corners of the proposed building and the nearest adjoining
building, but in no case less than the required minimum front yard and provided
further where the front yards as first modified are less than the required
minimum front yard, the front yard shall be further modified by increasing the
front yard by one foot for each ten feet between the nearest adjoining existing
building until the front yard equals the required minimum front yard.
   (b)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may, upon application filed as provided in
§
50-159(a), authorize a front yard setback which is less than the front yard
setback as modified by this section upon a finding that the requested front
yard setback does not adversely affect the other properties in the same block
front, provided the front yard setback is not less than the required minimum
front yard setback. The owners of the record of any real property in the same
block front shall be notified of such request in the same manner of
notification as provided in §
50-159(e).
(Ord. 2503, passed 6-9-1975)
ARTICLE XXV. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 50-132 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES GENERALLY.
   (a)   When required. In any district, in connection with every building or
part thereof erected after April 26, 1968, and having a gross floor area of
10,000 square feet or more, which is to be occupied by manufacturing, storage,
warehouse, goods display, retail store, wholesale store, market, hotel,
hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses similarly requiring
receiving or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall
be provided and maintained, on the same lot with the building, at least one
off-street loading space plus one additional loading space for each 20,000
square feet or major fraction thereof of gross floor area so used in excess of
20,000 square feet.
   (b)   Dimensions. Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet in
width, 25 feet in length and 14 feet in height. Any space that is 50 feet or
greater in length may be counted as one and one-half loading spaces.
   (c)   May occupy yard. Such space may occupy all or any part of any required
yard.
   (d)   Distance from residence district. No such space shall be closer than
50 feet to any other lot located in any residence district, unless wholly
within a completely enclosed building or unless enclosed on all sides adjacent
to or directly across the street from any residence district, by a solid wall
or uniformly painted solid board fence, or a chain link fence with a six-foot
planting buffer maintained in a healthy condition. Such walls or fences shall
not be less than six feet in height.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-133 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES GENERALLY.
   (a)   When required. In all districts, except the D-4 district, in
connection with every industrial, business, institutional, recreational,
residential or any other use, there shall be provided at the time any building
or structure is erected or is enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street
parking spaces for automobiles in accordance with the requirements herein.
   (b)   Minimum size. Parking spaces that are not designated for handicapped
parking or loading zones shall be at least nine feet wide and 20 feet long.
Handicapped parking spaces shall meet the requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.).
   (c)   Access. There shall be adequate provision for ingress and egress to
and from all parking spaces. No driveway on public property shall exceed 40
feet in width where it crosses the public sidewalk and shall not exceed 65 feet
in width along the curbline. Whenever more than one driveway is constructed
from any one street over public property, the driveway shall be separated by an
intervening raised space or raised island not less than six inches high located
between the walk and the curbline of not less than 40 feet in width parallel to
the public walk or right-of-way. This requirement may be reduced in B, B-1 and
C-1 districts. Where a lot does not abut on a public or private right-of-way or
easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive not less than eight
feet in width in the case of a dwelling, and not less than 18 feet in width in
all other cases, unless used for either ingress or egress only, leading to the
parking or storage areas or loading and unloading spaces required hereunder in
such manner as to secure the most appropriate development of the property in
question. Except where provided in connection with a use permitted in a
residence district, such easement of access or access drive shall not be
located in any residence district.
   (d)   Type. Parking spaces for all types of uses may be provided either in
garages or parking areas conforming with the provisions of this chapter.
   (e)   Traffic engineering review. The Traffic Engineer of the City shall
review all site plans for developments in all districts and may allow driveway
dimensions larger than stated before, for particular traffic or circulation
conditions.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982; Ord. 3677, passed 8-
26-2005)
§ 50-134 LOCATION OF PARKING LOTS OR STRUCTURES.
   Off-street parking lots or structures shall be located as hereinafter
specified. Where a distance is specified, such distance shall be the average
walking distance measured from the nearest point in the parking lot or
structure to the nearest point of the building that the lot or structure is
required to serve.
   (a)   For one- and two-family dwellings.
      (1)   Parking spaces to meet the minimum requirements of this chapter
shall be located on the same lot with the building they are required to serve,
but not in the required front or side street setback area.
         a.   The width of the parking strip, apron or driveway shall not
exceed ten feet; however:
         b.   If a garage or carport is attached to the principal structure,
the width of the parking strip, apron or driveway shall not exceed the width of
the garage or carport;
         c.   If a garage or carport is detached from the principal structure
and access is provided from a side street, the width of the parking strip,
apron or driveway shall not exceed the width of the garage or carport.
      (2)   These provisions shall not apply to lot widths of 80 feet or more.
   (b)   For multiple dwellings. 
      (1)   Not more than 200 feet from the building they are required to
serve, and not in the front or side street setback area. In the required front
or side street setback areas, all parking spaces shall consist of a parking
strip, apron or driveway:
         a.   The width of the parking strip, aprons or driveway shall not
exceed ten feet; however:
         b.   If a garage or carport is attached to the principal structure,
the width of the parking strip, apron or driveway shall not exceed the width of
the garage or carport;
         c.   If a garage or carport is detached from the principal structure
and access is provided from a side street, the width of the parking strip,
apron or driveway shall not exceed the width of the garage or carport.
      (2)   These provisions shall not apply to lot widths of 80 feet or more.
   (c)   For commercial and institutional use. For hospitals, sanitariums,
asylums, orphanages, rooming houses, lodging houses, club rooms, fraternity and
sorority houses and similar institutions, not more than 300 feet from the
building they are required to serve.
   (d)   For other uses. For uses other than those specified above, not more
than 1,000 feet from the building they are intended to serve.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3274, passed 4-25-1994)
§ 50-135 UNITS OF MEASUREMENT.
   For the purpose of this article, the following units of measurement shall
apply.
   (a)   Floor area. In the case of offices, merchandising or service types of
uses, the term FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to
be used by tenants, or for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients
or patients, but not including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used
principally for nonpublic purpose such as storage incidental repair, processing
or packaging of merchandise, for show windows, for offices incidental to the
management or maintenance of stores or buildings, for toilet or restrooms, for
utility rooms or for dressing rooms, fitting or alteration rooms.
   (b)   Hospital bassinets. In hospitals, bassinets shall not be counted as
beds.
   (c)   Places of public assembly. In stadiums, sports arenas, churches and
other places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy benches,
pews or other similar seating facilities, each 20 inches of such seating
facilities shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of determining
requirements for off-street parking facilities under this article.
   (d)   Fractions. When units of measurement determining number of required
parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up to
and including one-half shall be disregarded and fractions over one-half shall
require one parking space.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-136 ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS TO USES; MIXED OCCUPANCIES; REQUIREMENTS
FOR NON-SPECIFIED USES.
   (a)   Whenever in any building there is a change in use, or an increase in
floor area or in the number of employees or other unit of measurement hereafter
specified to indicate the number of required off-street parking spaces, and
such change or increase creates a need for an increase of more than 10% in the
number of off-street parking spaces as determined by the requirements of this
article, additional off-street parking spaces shall be provided on the basis of
the increased requirements of the new use, or on the basis of the increase in
floor area or in number of employees or in other unit of measurement; provided,
that in case a change in use creates a need for an increase of less than five
off-street parking spaces, no additional parking facilities shall be required.
Additions or expansion shall be accumulative and shall require additional
spaces when the total requirement is 10% or more.
   (b)   In the case of mixed uses, the total requirements for off-street
parking facilities shall be the sum of the requirements for the various uses
computed separately. In the case of a use not specifically mentioned in this
article, the requirements for off-street parking facilities for a use which is
so mentioned, and to which such use is similar, shall apply. Off-street parking
facilities for one use shall not be considered as providing required parking
facilities for any other use, except as specified in this article for joint
use.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-137 COLLECTIVE PROVIDING OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the collective
provision of off-street parking facilities for two or more buildings or uses;
provided, that the total of such off-street parking spaces supplied
collectively shall not be less than the sum of the requirements for the various
uses computed separately; provided further, that the requirements set forth in
this article as to maximum distances between parking areas and establishments
served shall apply to each such establishment participating in the collective
provisions of parking.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
§ 50-138 JOINT USE OF FACILITIES.
   (a)   Not more than 50% of the off-street parking facilities required under
this article for a theater, bowling alley, dance hall or an establishment for
the sale and consumption on the premises of food, alcoholic beverages or
refreshments, and up to 100% of the facilities required for a church or an
auditorium incidental to a public or parochial school, may be supplied by off-
street parking facilities provided for certain other kinds of buildings or
uses, specified in subsection (b) of this section, which are not normally open,
used or operated during the principal operating hours of theaters, churches, or
the establishments aforesaid; and not more than 50% of the off-street parking
facilities required under this section, may be supplied by such facilities
provided for theaters, churches or other establishments aforesaid; provided,
that the properly drawn legal instrument is executed by the parties, which
instrument, duly approved as to form and manner of execution by the Chief Legal
Officer, shall be filed with the application for a building permit or
certificate of occupancy.
   (b)   Buildings or uses not normally open, used or operated during the
principal operating hours of theaters, churches or other of the aforesaid
establishments, are defined as banks, business offices, retail stores, personal
service shops, household equipment or furniture shops, clothing or shoe repair
or service shops, manufacturing buildings and similar uses.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2310, passed 1-17-1972)
§ 50-139 SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (a)   The following is the schedule of required off-street parking spaces:
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
Automobile or machinery sales and       1 for each 800 sq. ft. floor area
service garages
Banks, business and professional        1 for each 300 sq. ft. floor area
offices
                                        3 spaces for each of the first two
Beauty parlors or barbershops           beauty or barber chairs and one space
                                        for each additional chair
Bowling alleys                          6 for each alley
Business, professional or trade schools 1 for each 200 sq. ft. floor area
Churches and K-12 schools               1 for each 6 seats in an auditorium or
                                        nave or 1 for each 17 classroom seats
Dance halls and assembly halls without
fixed seats, exhibition halls, except   1 for each 100 sq. ft. of floor area
church assembly rooms in conjunction    used for assembly of dancing
with auditorium
Dwellings, including multiple dwellings 1 for each family dwelling unit or
and apartment hotels                    boarding house bed
                                        1 for each 2 dwelling units; provided,
Federally and State-assisted housing    that sufficient land area be reserved
for the elderly                         in the site plan for future conversion
                                        to a 1 for each dwelling unit ratio
Funeral homes, mortuaries               4 for each parlor or 1 for each 50 sq.
                                        ft. of floor area, whichever is greater
 
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                                          Parking Spaces
                                                             Required
Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment or       1 for each 400 sq.
furniture repair shop                                        ft. of floor area
                                                             1 for each 2 beds
                                                             plus 1 space for
                                                             each 5 staff
Hospital                                                     doctors and 1
                                                             space for each 3
                                                             employees on
                                                             maximum shift
Hotels, lodging houses                                       1 for each 2
                                                             bedrooms
                                                             1 for each 500 sq.
Libraries, museums or art galleries                          ft. of floor
                                                             space.
                                                             5 plus 1 for each
Manufacturing plants, research or testing laboratories,      3 employees on the
bottling plants                                              maximum working
                                                             shift
                                                             1 for each 200 sq.
Medical or dental clinics, professional offices of doctors,  ft. of floor area
dentists or similar professions                              plus 2 for each
                                                             doctor
Motels and motor hotels                                      1 for each living
                                                             or sleeping unit
                                                             1 for each 4
                                                             persons allowed
                                                             within the maximum
Restaurants, beer parlors and nightclubs, bars, halls for    load as
hire, clubs, lodges and meeting places, and uses where       established, by
alcoholic beverages are available for sale and consumption   local or State
on premises                                                  Fire, Building or
                                                             Health Codes and 1
                                                             for each employee
                                                             on maximum shift
Retail stores, shops and the like                            1 for each 150 sq.
                                                             ft. of floor area
Sanitariums, convalescent homes, nursing homes, children’s 1 for each 6 beds
homes
Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters                         1 for each 4 seats
                                                             5 plus 1 for each
Wholesale establishments or warehouses                       3 employees on
                                                             maximum shift
 
   (b)   In case of any building, structure or premises the use of which is not
specifically mentioned herein, the provisions for a use which is so mentioned
and to which such use is similar shall apply.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2310, passed 1-17-1972; Ord. 2972, passed 9-
23-1985; Ord. 3015, passed 11-10-1986)
§ 50-140 DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF PARKING AREAS.
   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
including commercial parking lots, restricted accessory parking lots in
residence districts, and automobile or trailer sales lots, shall be developed
and maintained in accordance with the following requirements.
   (a)   Screening and landscaping.
      (1)   Off-street parking areas for more than five vehicles shall be
effectively screened on each side which adjoins or faces any residence district
or institutional use, except for necessary entrances and exits, by:
         a.   A masonry wall of acceptable design;
         b.   A solid fence of acceptable design; or
         c.   A planting buffer, maintained in a health condition of acceptable
design and species to effectively screen the parking from the residence
district or institutional use. The planting buffer shall be planted and
arranged in such a way as to produce 80% or more continuing capacity, beginning
no later than four years after planting, when viewed horizontally from between
ground level and four feet above the ground or three feet above the ground
front and side street setbacks. The plant material and design shall be reviewed
and approved by a City staff landscape architect as being adequate to produce
the necessary screening effect. The Planning Commission, Zoning Board of
Appeals or Director of Building and Safety Inspection may require a chain link
fence in addition to a planting, to prevent debris from blowing into adjacent
areas.
      (2)   All walls, fences or planting buffers shall be protected from
vehicle damage by billiards, guardrails or curbing of acceptable design.
      (3)   Along the front or side street frontage, the walls, fences or
planting buffers shall be no more than three feet in height, to insure adequate
sight distance. Along interior lot lines, the walls, fences or planting buffers
shall be between four and six feet in height and maintained in a health
condition.
      (4)   One tree shall be planted in the required setback for each 50
linear feet, or fraction thereof, of front or side street frontage. Front and
side street frontage are to be computed separately. The trees shall have a
clear trunk of at least five feet and be of acceptable species as approved by
the City’s Forestry Division.
      (5)   The area, if any, between such walls or fences and the nearest side
or front lot line or any unpaved area shall be planted with grass, hardy shrubs
or evergreen ground cover and maintained in a healthy condition.
      (6)   Walls and fences shall not contain signing or advertising, except
for necessary directional signs.
   (b)   Access. Off-street parking areas for five or more vehicles shall be
designed so all vehicles may enter and exit adjoining streets and other public
rights-of-way in a forward motion.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982)
§ 50-141 MINIMUM DISTANCES AND SETBACKS; SURFACING AND LIGHTING OF PARKING
AREAS.
   (a)   No parking in any parking areas for more than five vehicles shall be
closer than ten feet to any dwelling, school, hospital or other institution for
human care located on an adjoining lot, unless screened by an unpierced masonry
wall. If in a residence district or adjoining a residence district, that part
of the parking area within 25 feet of any residence district shall not be
located within the front or side yard setback, as established by the adjoining
structure, but shall not exceed 25 feet. This setback area shall be developed
as a planting buffer area and shall not permit drives or other paving. In
commercial or industrial districts, no paving shall be closer than seven feet
to the street right-of-way line, except for necessary entrances and exits. In
residential districts no paving shall be closer than ten feet to the street
right-of-way line, except for necessary entrances and exits.
   (b)   Any off-street parking area for more than five vehicles shall be
surfaced with an asphaltic or portland binder pavement, so as to provide a
durable and dustless surface; shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of
all surface water, as required by the City Plumbing Code, accumulated within
the area; and shall so be arranged and marked as to provide for orderly and
safe loading or unloading and parking and storage of self-propelled vehicles.
The foregoing requirements with respect to surfacing shall not apply to a
parking area in an E, F or G district if more than 200 feet from any residence
district, except that a dustless surface shall be provided in any case.
   (c)   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in any residence
district. See also Appendix,
Illustration 50-133 – 50-142, “Typical parking regulations abutting residence
districts.”
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982)
§ 50-142 MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS OF ARTICLE.
   The Board of Appeals may authorize an appeal, a modification, reduction or
waiver of the requirements of this article, if it should find that, in the
particular case appealed the peculiar nature of the residential, business,
trade, industrial or other use, or the exceptional shape or size of the
property or other exceptional situations or condition, would justify such
action.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XXV-A. SIGNS ALONG FREEWAYS
§ 50-142.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   APPLICABLE REGULATIONS. Any pertinent zoning, building or other regulations
in effect in the City.
   ERECT. To construct, build, rebuild (if more than 50% of the structural
members involved), relocate, raise, assemble, place, affix, attach, paint, draw
or in any other manner bring into being or establish.
   FREEWAY. Limited access rights-of-way and facilities and related approaches,
viaducts, bridges and interchange facilities and service roads, and any portion
of the interstate highway system, now existing or as may be later constructed
or designated.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING. Any sign which is used for any purpose other than that
of advertising any activity, commodity, service or entertainment primarily
sold, offered, manufactured, processed or fabricated on the premises.
   POINT-OF-SALE SIGN. Any sign advertising or designating the use, occupant of
the premises, or merchandise or products sold on the premises or an activity,
commodity, service or entertainment primarily sold, offered, manufactured,
processed or fabricated on the premises.
   PROTECTED AREAS. All property in the City within 600 feet of the right-of-
way of any freeway right-of-way.
   SIGN. Any display or characters, letters, illustrations or any ornamentation
designated or used as an advertisement, announcement or to indicate direction.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Signs to be erected on a temporary basis, such as signs
advertising the sale or rental of the premises on which located; signs,
advertising a subdivision of property; signs advertising construction actually
being done on premises on which the sign is located; signs advertising future
construction to be done on the premises on which the sign is located; and
special events, such as public meetings, sporting events, political campaigns
or events of a similar nature.
(Ord. 2272, passed 6-21-1971; Ord. 3047, passed 10-12-1987)
§ 50-142.2 SIGNS PROHIBITED IN PROTECTED AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, permit or maintain any sign in
protected areas, except as provided hereinafter.
(Ord. 2272, passed 6-21-1971)
§ 50-142.3 CERTAIN SIGNS PERMITTED.
   Erection of the following signs shall be permitted in protected areas,
subject to the following conditions and limitations listed herein and further,
subject to other applicable regulations where such regulations are more
restrictive or more definitive than the provisions of this article and are not
inconsistent therewith.
   (a)   Temporary signs which are located and oriented to the frontage on the
street or streets which provides actual access to the property. In no event
shall any temporary sign be larger than 120 square feet.
   (b)   Point-of-sale signs.
      (1)   Content. The content of point-of-sale signs shall be limited to
information which directs attention to a business or profession conducted on
the premises or to an activity, commodity, service or entertainment primarily
sold, offered, manufactured, processed or fabricated on the premises.
      (2)   Detached signs. Each business, industry or institutional use may
have two detached point-of-sale signs. A corner lot or lot with access to more
than one local street may have three detached point-of-sale signs. In no event,
except as modified herein, shall any point-of-sale sign be erected which is
greater in height than the height limitation established for the zoning
district in which the sign is located.
      (3)   Wall signs. Wall signs within 200 feet of a freeway right-of-way
shall be confined to the wall of the building containing the principal
entrance. A wall sign may be placed on one other wall of the building and shall
be limited to 10% of the other wall area, but in no event shall exceed 80
square feet.
      (4)   Roof signs. Roof signs are prohibited.
   (c)   Within the protected area, each business, industry or institutional
use abutting a freeway right-of-way may have, a single, detached point-of- sale
sign oriented to the freeway. Such sign shall meet the following criteria in
addition to other sign criteria of this chapter.
      (1)   It must be a substitution and not an addition to signage permitted
by this section.
      (2)   No flashing lights are permitted.
      (3)   There shall be no moving parts, animation or other devices used to
depict motion.
      (4)   The sign shall conform architecturally with other structures on the
premises.
      (5)   In those instances where the elevation of the freeway creates a
line-of-sight problem, a sign may be increased in height so that no more than
30 feet of the sign is visible from a point three feet above the surface of the
edge of the freeway traffic lane, nearest the proposed sign, measured at 90%
degrees from the expressway to the sign location. In cases where the sign is on
a curve, the measurement shall be radial. However, in no instance shall the
sign exceed 75 feet in height.
(Ord. 2272, passed 6-21-1971; Ord. 2814, passed 10-26-1981; Ord. 3047, passed
10-12-1987; Ord. 3077, passed 10-10-1988)
§ 50-142.4 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (a)   Signs which have been erected prior to the effective date of this
article may continue to be maintained until five years after the effective
date. Thereafter, unless such signs conform to the provisions of this section,
they shall be removed. If a nonconforming situation can be eliminated by the
removal of one sign, the sign which has been erected for the longest period of
time shall have priority.
   (b)   Any sign legally erected, permitted or maintained subsequent to July
2, 1971, which is not in violation of this article but upon the opening for
public use of a freeway or applicable portion thereof becomes nonconforming the
same may continue to be maintained for a period of five years from the day of
the opening provided on or before the expiration of the five-year period, the
nonconforming sign must be removed; provided, any sign which is exempt from the
provisions of this section pursuant to §
50-142.3(c) hereof, but subsequently becomes nonconforming due to the
elimination of the obstruction preventing its visibility from a freeway must be
removed within five years from the time of the elimination of such obstruction;
further provided, after the effective date of this section any sign erected,
permitted or maintained after a future freeway right-of-way has been designated
by the recording of a freeway right-of-way map in the public records of Genesee
County, Michigan, which becomes nonconforming due to the completion of the
freeway shall be removed within 30 days after the freeway or applicable portion
thereof is open for public use.
   (c)   The requirements to remove any nonconforming sign shall be contingent
upon the City instituting condemnation to pay the fair market value of the sign
according to law.
(Ord. 2272, passed 6-21-1971; Ord. 2456, passed 10-7-1974)
ARTICLE XXV-B. GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 50-142.5 DEFINITIONS.
   (a)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ATTACH or INSTALL. Any act associated with the placing of a sign such as
to construct, erect, post, paint, glue, paste, print, staple, nail, stamp,
tape, tack and the like.
      SIGN. Any panel, painted, printed, plated, etched, routed, screened, cut,
formed and the like, either illuminated or not illuminated, advertising or in
concert with other advertising a name(s) or a person, firm, service, event,
product or place or having any form of inscription, notice of publicity
thereon. Included in this definition are signs commonly referred to as posters,
placards, show bills, circulars, stickers, billboards and the like.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, signs shall be divided into types
listed below. Where applicable, the appropriate BOCA nomenclature is also given
for the various types of signs.
Article Types BOCA Nomenclature
Article Types                    BOCA Nomenclature
1. Temporary sign                Temporary sign
2. Nameplates                    —
3. Projecting and vertical signs Marquee signs
4. Column signs                  Ground signs
5. Roof signs                    Roof
6. Poster signs                  Poster panel or billboard
7. Portable signs                —
8. Special signs                 —
9. Mobile/trailer signs          —
 
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975; Ord. 2726, passed 7-23-1979)
§ 50-142.6 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   No sign shall be erected on or over public property within a distance
of ten feet, measured horizontally, from any fire hydrant, traffic light, fire
alarm box or street light pole, nor shall any sign be erected in any location
where by reason of traffic conditions, fire, explosion hazard, it would imperil
public safety or interfere with the functions of the Fire Department. No sign
of Types 1, 3 and 4 shall be erected with its lowest point nearer than ten feet
of the sidewalk grade; provided, however, that any sign attached to a canopy
erected on or over public property pursuant to the Building Code, as amended,
shall be a part of the canopy and shall comply with the clearance requirements
for the canopy.
   (b)   No person shall attach any notice, sign, placard, carpet or other
encumbrance or any tree, fountain, post, railing, fence or other structure in
or surrounding any public park ground or boulevard.
   (c)   Between the street right-of-way line and a point seven feet behind
this line it is the intent of this article to provide a minimum clear vision
area in the space between 36 inches above grade and ten feet above grade, no
part of any sign face, sign column or other sign appurtenances, including
traffic, information signs, shall encroach into this clear vision area.
Exceptions to this requirement would be when the existing building setbacks are
less than seven feet, such are found along some parts of Fenton Road, Lewis
Street and the like.
   (d)   The provisions of the BOCA Basic Building Code, having been adopted by
the City of Flint, shall remain in full force and effect and are to be read in
harmony with the provisions of this article to the extent feasible; provided,
however, in the event of any conflicting provisions of this article with the
BOCA Basic Building Code or any other ordinance now or hereafter in effect, the
more restrictive provisions of the conflicting ordinance shall apply.
   (e)   Prohibited are signs which:
      (1)   Contain or are an imitation of an official traffic sign or signal
or contain words such as “Stop,” “Go Slow,” “Caution,” “Danger,” “Detour,”
“Warning” or similar words, or any other words, phrases, symbols or characters,
in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic;
      (2)   Are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring or manner of
illumination, including but not limited to, flashing lights, which may be
confused with or construed as a traffic-control device which hide from view any
traffic or street sign or signal;
      (3)   Advertise any activity, business, product or service once conducted
or available on the premises upon which the sign is located, but which is no
longer conducted or available on the premises. The owner of the premises shall
have such sign removed within 30 days after termination of the activity,
business, product or service which this sign advertises. If the sign is not
removed by the owner of the premises the Director of Building and Safety
Inspection shall undertake to have the sign removed and the charges therefor
shall be assessed against the property; or
      (4)   Contain statements, words or pictures of an obscene, indecent or
immoral character, as such terms are defined by the provisions of this Code of
ordinances and any other ordinance of the City of Flint dealing with obscenity.
   (f)   Illumination. All light sources used to illuminate signs shall be
shielded in such a manner that passersby and building occupants within view of
such signs will not be able to view the bare lamps of such illuminated signs.
Signs with exposed lamps shall be approved by the Division of Building and
Safety Inspection as to elements of glare. No colored lights shall be used at
any location or in any manner so as to be confused with or construed as
traffic-control devices.
   (g)   Signs are defined as structures and are subject to height limitations
set forth herein.
   (h)   A sign not in conformance with this article shall constitute a
nonconforming use of property. No nonconforming sign shall be replaced,
restored, reconstructed, extended or substituted except in accordance with the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975; Ord. 2726, passed 7-23-1979; Ord. 3063, passed 7-
11-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see §§ 11-1 et seq.
§ 50-142.7 TYPE 1, TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (a)   This section is limited to signs maintained for a period of 60 days or
less. Signs used for a longer period must conform to the requirements of a
permanent sign.
   (b)   A cloth-type sign panel shall not exceed 30 square feet in area and
shall be suspended by wire or rope securely anchored.
   (c)   The Division of Building and Safety Inspection may order any temporary
sign in a dilapidated condition removed, regardless of the period of time since
its installation.
   (d)   The term TEMPORARY SIGN shall include, but shall not be limited to,
construction signs, real estate signs, political signs and overhead or
suspended signs.
   (e)   There shall be one construction sign per project which may identify
all of the architects, engineers, contractors and other individuals or firms
involved with the construction at the site of the sign, and there may be one
sign announcing the character of the building enterprise or the purpose for
which the building under construction is intended, but neither of the signs
shall include any advertisement of any product and each such sign shall be
limited to a combined total maximum area of 64 square feet and shall be
confined to the site of construction and shall be removed within 30 days after
the beginning of the intended use of the project.
   (f)   Real estate signs shall be limited to a total area of six square feet,
but the limit shall be increased to 32 square feet of total area in commercial
and manufacturing districts. Such signs shall be removed within 20 days after
the sale, rental or lease of the property.
   (g)   Political signs (temporary) shall be limited to a maximum size of six
square feet in residential districts but the area limit shall be increased to
32 square feet of total area in commercial and manufacturing districts. This
size provision shall not prohibit the use of permanent signs of any size or
location legally authorized herein for political advertisement. Political signs
(temporary) are exempt from the requirements for permits under the Basic
Building Code; they are exempt from the requirements for installation by a
licensed bonded sign hanger, and they are exempt from the requirements for
authorization or ratification in writing of the owner of the property as
required herein, however, oral permission shall be required. Such exception,
however, shall not be construed to relieve the owner of the sign from
responsibility for its erection, maintenance and safety. The earliest time that
political (temporary) signs may be installed is 40 days before an election.
Political signs (temporary) shall be removed within 20 days of the election.
Nothing herein shall prohibit political signs for general election candidates
to remain on location between the primary and general election.
   (h)   The attaching and removal of political signs and other signs of a
temporary nature shall comply in all respects with subsections (a) through (f)
of this section, and in addition, shall comply with the following provisions.
      (1)   Location. No person shall, by himself or herself or by another,
attach any signs except such as may be expressly authorized by law on any
street or sidewalk, or upon any public place or object in the City, or on any
fence, building, or property belonging to the City, or upon any street,
telegraph pole, electric light pole, or tower or any other utility pole, in or
on any public tree, street or alley in the City. This section shall not
prohibit the City from developing and leasing or licensing public property to a
private person for advertising purposes.
      (2)   Attachment of signs. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, except a public officer or employee in the performance of a public
duty, or a private person in giving a valid legal notice, to attach any sign or
notice of any kind upon any property, public or private, or cause or authorize
the same to be done, without consent, authorization or ratification in writing
of the owner, holder, occupant, lessee, agent or trustee thereof; provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to the distribution of handbills,
advertisements or other printed matter that are not securely affixed to the
premises.
      (3)   Installation. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to install any signs or notice of any kind upon any property,
private or public, or cause or authorize the same to be done unless the person,
firm or corporation shall affix thereto on either lower corner a notice, in
letters not less than one-quarter inch high, stating the name and address of
the person, firm or corporation, engage in or employed to do the physical
installation of such signs.
      (4)   Removal. The person, firm or corporation, whose name appears on the
sign shall be responsible for the removal of such sign or notice and the same
shall be removed from the property, private or public, within 20 days after the
occurrence of the event for which the sign was installed.
      (5)   Sale signs.  “For sale” signs of the so-called “garage sale,”
“rummage sale,” “yard sale” or “antique sale” type shall be restricted to the
property where the sale is being held and such sign shall remain posted no
longer than nine days, nor more than two occasions within a 12-month period.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975; Ord. 2726, passed 7-23-1979; Ord. 3254, passed 9-
27-1993; Ord. 3305, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 50-142.8 TYPE 2, NAMEPLATES.
   (a)   Unless otherwise restricted by provisions of this article, nameplates
for professional offices, apartment complexes, public and quasi-public
buildings and institutions shall be sized in proportion to the building which
they service. The Director of Building and Safety Inspection shall review the
application for installation of nameplate signs and determine the
appropriateness of the size of the sign.
   (b)   The Director of Building and Safety Inspection shall develop and
publish guidelines for the size limitations of nameplates.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975)
§ 50-142.9 TYPE 3, PROJECTING AND VERTICAL SIGNS.
   (a)   The term “projecting or vertical signs” shall apply to any sign
projecting at an angle of 90 degrees, more or less, from the space of a wall
with a frame or supporting member or cantilever-type construction. No portion
of the sign shall project closer than two measured horizontally to the edge of
a street with minimum vertical clearance of 16 feet over public driveways or
alleys. No projecting or vertical sign shall have an area greater than 100
square feet; provided a projecting or vertical sign having an area greater than
100 square feet may be erected or altered upon application to and approval by
the City Council.
   (b)   Any person desiring to erect or alter such a projecting or vertical
sign having an area greater than 100 square feet shall make, or cause to be
made, an application in writing, through the Division of Building and Safety
Inspection, to the City Council, signed by the owner or person in control of
the premises where the sign is proposed to be erected or altered, stating the
location thereof. Upon its approval of the City Council, the application shall
be referred to the Division of Building and Safety Inspection for a permit in
accordance with and upon compliance with the provisions of this article.
   (c)   No person, company or corporation shall put up, erect, keep, use or
maintain on or in any City sidewalk any post or fixture for the support of any
sign, awning or advertisement, or for any other purpose, without having first
obtained the permission of the City Council upon the recommendation of the
Director of the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975)
§ 50-142.10 TYPE 4, COLUMN SIGNS.
   (a)   The term “column sign” shall apply to any advertising panel supported
by or suspended from a free standing column or columns. Each of these columns
shall not have a projected width on a plane perpendicular with the front
property line of more than 14 inches, nor a projected width on a plain parallel
with the front property line of more than 21 inches. These maximum column size
requirements may be waived when erected outside the clear vision area of §
50-142.6(c), or as modified. When more than one column is used, they shall be
separated a distance of not less than 30 inches at a distance of five feet
above grade. Column signs shall not be erected within two feet of an interior
property line.
   (b)   Column signs may be erected outside private property lines on
application to the Division of Building and Safety Inspection, giving location,
with respect to property lines, fire hydrants.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975; Ord. 3063, passed 7-11-1988)
§ 50-142.11 TYPE 5, ROOF SIGNS.
   (a)   The term “roof sign” shall apply to any advertising panel erected on
the roof of a building or on a wall where the sign projects above the top of
the wall.
   (b)   Roof signs shall be included in the height of the building for
compliance with the height requirements of this article.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975)
§ 50-142.12 TYPE 6, POSTER BOARDS.
   (a)   The term “poster board” shall apply to any advertising panel typically
erected on a free standing framework independent of a building. Large poster
boards are commonly referred to as “billboards.”
   (b)   Poster boards or billboards, being principal uses advertising a
product or service not found on the premises, shall not restrict the view of
on-premises advertising and thus shall have no part of the sign face, sign
column or other sign appurtenance located closer than seven feet to a street
right-of-way line nor closer than two feet to the nearest side lot line. The
Director of the Division of Building and Safety Inspection shall establish
building lines on streets where no plat restrictions exist. All poster boards
shall be erected on structural steel frames anchored to the ground by concrete
piers.
   (c)   Poster boards may be erected no closer than 300 feet to a
residentially zoned district.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975; Ord. 3063, passed 7-11-1988; Ord. 3281, passed
10-24-1994)
§ 50-142.13 TYPE 7, PORTABLE SIGNS.
   The term “portable sign” shall apply to an unlighted advertising panel
supported on a base not exceeding 100 pounds in weight. These signs shall not
exceed nine square feet in area. No portable sign shall be placed in a public
right-of-way, street, alley or parkway (the area between the sidewalk and curb)
sidewalk or path. No portable sign shall be placed or maintained in any
location which shall cause or create a dangerous or hazardous condition.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975; Ord. 2726, passed 7-23-1979)
§ 50-142.13.1 MOBILE/TRAILER SIGNS.
   Any sign on a motor vehicle or trailer which is parked on the premises for
the sole purpose of advertising a business or product or service of a business
located on the premises or abutting the premises is prohibited, except that a
changeable message advertising panel mounted on a vehicle or free standing is
permitted under the following conditions.
   (a)   The sign shall not have any flashing lights.
   (b)   No exposed lamps or bulbs are permitted.
   (c)   The signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in sign face area.
   (d)   Each individual business premises or location shall be limited to the
use of one such sign on one occasion in each calendar year, the occasion not to
exceed 60 consecutive days.
(Ord. 2726, passed 7-23-1979)
§ 50-142.14 TYPE 8, SPECIAL SIGNS.
   (a)   The term “special sign” shall apply to any advertising display such as
goods, merchandise, devices, illuminating device, or any other display for
advertising purposes placed out of doors and not otherwise provided for in this
article. Special signs shall comply with the general provisions of §
50-142.6 hereof.
   (b)   The Director of the Division of Building and Safety Inspection shall
make and enforce such regulations necessary to insure safe and secure
structures, properly located, to safeguard life and property rights and to
protect the public interest.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975)
§ 50-142.15 MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS; PRIVILEGE FEES.
   (a)   Responsibility for keeping signs in good repair and in good condition
rests entirely with the owner or owners of the sign.
   (b)   Owners of signs of Type 3 and 4 where located on public property,
shall pay the City an annual privilege fee plus a fee per square foot of area
of one side of sign. The fees shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained
in Appendix A of the City Code. Provided that, if the owner is a person,
organization or corporation organized and doing business exclusively for a
charitable purpose, then and in that event the owner shall not be required to
pay the annual privilege fee provided for herein.
   (c)   Annual privilege fees shall be payable on or before May 1 of each year
at the Division of Building and Safety Inspection. Persons with delinquent sign
privilege fees shall be charged a service charge of 1.5% per month beginning 30
days after the due date.
   (d)   Charges for use of the City property for signs shall be a lien thereon
and during the month of April of each year the Director of Building and Safety
Inspection shall certify any such charges which, as of April 1 of that year,
have been delinquent six months or more to the City Assessor, who shall enter
the same upon the City tax roll of that year against the premises to which the
City property was used for the sign, and the charges shall be collected and the
lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided with respect to taxes
assessed upon the roll; provided, that when a tenant is responsible for payment
of any such charges and the City Council is so notified in writing with a true
copy of the lease of the premises attached (if there is one), then no such
charge shall become a lien against the premises from and after the date of the
notice. However, in the event of the filing of the notice, the owner of the
premises shall cause the sign to be removed and no permit shall be issued for
the erection of a sign on City property for the premises until the delinquent
charges have been paid and a one- year advance deposit is made.
(Ord. 2504, passed 6-23-1975; Ord. 3428, passed 2-8-1999)
ARTICLE XXVI. NONCONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS AND LOTS
§ 50-143 INTENT.
   It is the policy of the City that nonconforming uses, lots and structures
are disfavored and that their eventual elimination is desired. It is the
intention of this article to permit the continuance of nonconforming uses, lots
and structures only as provided in this article and to restrict any change or
development that would tend to make them more permanent.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3633, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 50-144 AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE.
   (a)   An existing building or premises devoted to a use not permitted by
this chapter shall not be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, substituted or
structurally altered, except as required by law, or as permitted in §
50-147.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this article, any nonconforming use,
lot or structure lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter or
subsequent amendment thereto may be continued, regardless of any change in
tenancy, ownership or management, so long as it remains lawful.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3633, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 50-145 NONCONFORMING USES OR STRUCTURES.
   (a)   When any nonconforming structure is destroyed or damaged by any means
to the extent of 51% or more of the cost of replacement, as determined by the
Code Enforcement Officer, the structure shall not be rebuilt, restored or re-
occupied for any purpose unless it shall thereafter conform to the regulations
of the district in which it is located. If the damage equals 50% or less of the
replacement cost, repairs or rebuilding shall be permitted.
   (b)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued or ceases to exist for one
year, the nonconforming use shall not thereafter be resumed.
   (c)   When a nonconforming use or structure is replaced by a regularly
permitted use or structure, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located, and the nonconforming use may not be
resumed.
   (d)   An extension of a nonconforming use for the sole purpose of providing
required off-street parking and loading spaces shall be permitted, so long as
the extension does not involve any structural alteration or enlargement of a
nonconforming structure.
   (e)   When a public official, charged with protecting the public safety,
declares a structure unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe condition, the
restoration shall be permitted, except as otherwise provided in subsection (a).
   (f)   No nonconforming structure shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any
other location on the same or a different lot unless the entire structure
thereafter conforms to the regulations of the district in which it is located
after being moved.
   (g)   No use or structure which is accessory to a principal nonconforming
use or structure shall continue after the principal use or structure has ended,
unless it conforms with all the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3633, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 50-146 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, in any district
in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and
customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this section even though the lot
does not conform to the area or width requirements of the district in which it
is located. Any structure erected on such a lot shall conform to the yard
dimensions and other requirements of the district in which it is located.
   (b)   Any lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of
this section, which is located in a district where residential uses are not
permitted, may be used for any principal permitted use in that district, even
though the lot does not conform to the area or width requirements of the
district in which it is located. Any structure erected on such a lot shall
conform to the yard dimensions and other requirements of the district in which
it is located.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3633, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 50-147 NONCONFORMING SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   A structure that is otherwise lawful and appropriate in the district in
which it is located but which is nonconforming solely by reason of its failure
to comply with restrictions on lot area, lot coverage, height, yards or other
similar restrictions, may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions.
   (a)   Expansion. Such structure may be enlarged or altered only in a manner
that does not increase its nonconformity. Expansion is a change in the
structure that extends a structure further into a required yard, further above
the maximum height requirements or larger than the maximum cubical contents
allowed by this chapter, or an increase in the mass of the structure in a
required yard or above the maximum height allowed in this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bf649bea18b3a11a1f89ec07cac3adc69557cd52/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
   Figure 50-147
   (b)   Repair or reconstruction. Should such structure be destroyed or
damaged by any means to the extent of 51% or more of its replacement cost,
exclusive of the foundation, it may be reconstructed only if it thereafter
conforms with all the regulations of the district in which it is located and
with applicable building codes.
   (c)   Relocation. Should such structure be moved any distance for any
reason, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which
it is located after being moved.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3633, passed 2-14-2005; Ord. 3704, passed 4-
14-2008)
§ 50-148 SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED FOR CHANGE OF USE.
   A change of land use from one type of occupancy to another or from a
nonconforming use to a conforming use is subject to the provisions of site plan
review.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3633, passed 2-14-2005)
ARTICLE XXVII. CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 50-149 METHODS OF MAKING GENERALLY.
   The City Council may, following a public hearing and receipt of reports and
recommendations from the City Planning Commission, enact ordinances amending,
supplementing or changing the district boundaries or the regulations
established in this chapter.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2616, passed 11-28-1977; Ord. 2846, passed
7-26-1982)
§ 50-150 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   When an amendment, supplement or change is sought by application, the
applicant shall file in writing with the office of the City Planning Commission
an application obtained from that office.
   (a)   Who may apply. An application shall be signed by either the
freeholder, a contract purchaser, an option to purchase holder, or by his or
her authorized agent. Agent authorization shall be in writing and filed with
the application.
   (b)   Time limitation. Applications for amendment, supplement or change to
the same zoning district classification or a less restricted zoning district
classification on substantially the same parcel of land may not be submitted
more often than once a year. A determination, either approving or rejecting the
zoning change must be made by the City Council within six months after
receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2616, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 50-151 PLANNING COMMISSION — ACTION.
   (a)   In all cases, the matter of changes or amendment to this chapter shall
first be referred to or taken up by the Planning Commission for investigation
and study and preparation of its tentative report and recommendation. The
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the tentative report, changes or
amendments, giving not less than 15 days’ notice thereof in official paper or
papers of general circulation in the City. In the cases of an individual
property or several adjacent properties which are proposed for rezoning, notice
of the proposed rezoning and hearing shall be given to the owners of the
property in question at least 15 days before the hearing.
   (b)   In addition, for zoning amendments, not less than seven days’ written
notice shall be delivered personally or by ordinary mail, addressed to the last
address shown on the assessment rolls of the City, to any persons owning
property within the radius of 300 feet from any part of the property sought to
be rezoned. Written notices shall set forth the property sought to be rezoned,
stating its legal description or permanent parcel number and the street number,
or if there is no number, the geographical location with reference to adjacent
streets, the zoning change. Property owners outside of the 300 feet shall be
heard at such hearing. The requirements herein set forth relative to the
written notice to property owners within the 300-foot radius shall be deemed
owners within the 300-foot radius shall be deemed directory rather than
mandatory, notwithstanding anything in this chapter which might be construed to
the contrary, and no amendment to this chapter shall be held invalid if there
has been substantial compliance with this requirement.
   (c)   After completion of the hearing before the Planning Commission, the
Planning Commission shall prepare its final report and recommendation and
submit the same to the City Council at its first regular meeting in the fourth
week following the meeting of the Planning Commission at which the report is
made final. If there is no regular meeting of the City Council in the fourth
week, then the final report shall be received at the next regularly scheduled
meeting. The receipt of the final report shall be noticed in the minutes of the
City Council.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2555, passed 4-26-1976; Ord. 2616, passed
11-28-1977; Ord. 2846, passed 7-26-1982)
§ 50-151.1 SAME — SITE PLAN REVIEW FOR SPECIAL LAND USE REQUESTS.
   (a)   Review process; standards.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this chapter
and to secure compliance with Act 638 of the Public Acts of 1978, being MCLA §§
25.581 et seq., and MSA §§ 5.2931 et seq., in the chapter pertinent to “special
land uses, conditional uses” and/or “planned unit developments, community
development projects” or concepts in this chapter under different terminology
designed to accomplish similar objectives of a reviewing process, hereafter
such reviewing process is delegated to the Planning Commission. Any site plan
review required pertinent to the foregoing is also hereby similarly delegated
to the Planning Commission. Any site plan review required pertinent to the
foregoing is also hereby similarly delegated, notwithstanding any other
applicable provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance of the City to the
contrary.
      (2)   In addition to specific standards which may be applicable, the
following standards shall serve as the basis for decisions involving special
land uses, planned unit developments, and other discretionary decisions
contained in this chapter. The proposed use or activity shall:
         a.   Be compatible with adjacent uses of land;
         b.   Be consistent with and promote the intent and purpose of this
chapter, the Master Plan and other adopted renewal plans;
         c.   Be compatible with the natural environment;
         d.   Be consistent with the capabilities of public services and
facilities affected by the proposed use; and
         e.   Protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (b)   Applications for conditional uses and community development projects.
      (1)   Filing of applications. Any application under the provisions of
this chapter may be taken by any property owner, or option holder with the
consent of the property owner, or by a tenant, or by a governmental officer,
department, board or bureau. Such applications shall be filed with the Building
Inspector, who shall transmit the same to the designated Planning Official.
      (2)   Report. The designated Planning Official shall investigate the
application and submit a report thereto, together with his or her
recommendation to the Commission.
      (3)   Hearings. The Commission shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the application for a conditional use permit or community
development project, give 15 days’ public notice thereof in an official
newspaper or paper of general circulation in the City, as well as notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Each
application shall be accompanied by a check, payable to the Treasurer of the
City, or a cash payment, to cover the cost of publication, posting and
hearings. The amount shall be established from time to time by resolution of
the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and contained in Appendix A
of the City Code. At the hearings, any party may appear in person or be
represented by an agent or attorney. Parties of interest shall include the
applicant and all owners of record of any real property within 300 feet of the
premises in question. The owners of record for the purposes hereof shall be
those persons appearing on the assessment rolls of the City. The required
notice shall be delivered personally or by mail addressed to the respective
owners at the address given on the last assessment roll.
      (4)   Decision of Commission. The Commission shall decide all
applications and appeals within 30 days after the final hearing thereon. A
certified copy of the Commission’s decision shall be transmitted to the
applicant and to the Building Inspector. Such decision shall be binding upon
the Building Inspector and observed by him or her and he or she shall
incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in the permit to the
applicant, whenever a permit is authorized by the Commission. The decision of
the Commission is appealable to the Zoning Board of Appeals by either the
applicant or by 20% of the owners of real property within 300 feet of the
premises in question.
(Ord. 2846, passed 7-26-1982; Ord. 3043, passed 8-24-1987; Ord. 3080, passed
10-24-1988; Ord. 3429, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 50-151.2 NOTIFICATION WHEN LAND USE IS SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY AN
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION.
   Where an individual, partnership, limited partnership, corporation or any
other organization has gone before the Planning Commission to seek a change in
a zoning ordinance for a specific parcel or property, and the requested change
is rejected by the City Council: before a subsequent request to the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee regarding any portion of the same parcel
of property can be approved, actual notice must be sent to all persons living
within 300 feet of the property in question. If any appeal is not filed
pursuant to §
50-159 within 20 days of the actual notice, the Zoning Administrator or his or
her designee may then act upon the requested use.
(Ord. 3104, passed 7-24-1989)
§ 50-152 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (a)   At the meeting at which the final report for the Planning Commission
is received, the Chief Legal Officer shall present for introduction and public
hearing an ordinance effectuating the zoning changes recommended by the
Planning Commission and, in cases of unfavorable action by the Planning
Commission, effectuating the zoning change sought by the applicant.
   (b)   Notice of such public hearing before the City Council stating the time
and place of the hearing shall be published in an official paper of general
circulation in the City not less than 15 days prior to the public hearing. Not
less than 15 days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given
by registered United States mail to each public utility company and to each
railroad company owning or operating any public utility or railroad within the
districts or zones affected. After second reading, ordinance and map shall be
published as required by law.
   (c)   The City Council may adopt such proposed change, supplement or
amendment in the form submitted to it, or with amendments, or may refer the
matter back to the Planning Commission; provided, that in case of protest
against a proposed amendment, supplement or change be presented, duly signed by
the owners of 20% or more of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the
owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered, the amendment shall not be passed except by three-fourths vote of the
City Council.
   (d)   If an ordinance effectuating a zoning change fails of passage after
the public hearing before the City Council, or is referred back to the Planning
Commission, rezoning of the lot or parcel in question shall not take place,
under any circumstances, except upon compliance with the procedures set forth
in §
50-151.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2616, passed 11-28-1977)
§ 50-153 ZONING CHANGE FEES.
   An applicant for an amendment, supplement or change of zoning shall pay a
sum to the office of the Planning Commission at the time the application is
filed, to cover the cost of processing the same. This sum shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City
Clerk, and contained in Appendix A of the City Code.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2616, passed 11-28-1977; Ord. 3043, passed
8-24-1987; Ord. 3080, passed 10-24-1988; Ord. 3429, passed 2-8-1999)
§ 50-154 ZONING CERTIFICATE OR BUILDING PERMIT NOT TO BE ISSUED WHILE ZONING
MAP CHANGE PENDING.
   Whenever the City Council has taken under advisement a change or amendment
to the zoning map from a less restricted district to a more restricted district
classification, as evidenced by resolution of record, no zoning certificate or
building permit shall be issued within 30 days from the date of such resolution
which would authorize the construction of a building or the establishment of a
use which would become nonconforming under the contemplated redistricting plan.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968)
ARTICLE XXVIII. BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 50-155 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF MEMBERS.
   The Board of Appeals shall consist of ten voting members, nine appointed by
the City Council, one from each of the nine wards of the City, and one member
of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall recommend a member of
the Planning Commission to be appointed by the City Council. Each member shall
be appointed for a term of three years, except the member of the Planning
Commission shall serve for a term of one year. The City Planner shall be the
Secretary of the Board and shall have no vote.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2608, passed 7-25-1977; Ord. 2888, passed
12-12-1983; Ord. 3683, passed 9-25-2006; Ord. 3697, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 50-155.1 CAUSES FOR REMOVAL FROM BOARD.
   (a)   Causes for removal of Board members (including alternates) from the
Board by the City Council shall include malfeasance, misfeasance, nonfeasance
generally and in particular:
      (1)   Failure to maintain reasonable familiarity with State statutes and
local Code provisions and any other ordinances and rules affecting the Board or
failure to be governed thereby;
      (2)   Failure to disclose conflicts of interest for the purposes of
disqualification when a member has a personal or monetary interest in the
matter involved, or will be directly affected by a decision of the Board; and
      (3)   Failure to attend three consecutive regular meetings or more than
one-half of the last 12 regular meetings may require a hearing by the Board at
its next regular meeting following receipt of an attendance report from the
Zoning Administrator. The Board shall determine at that hearing if the
circumstances warrant removal or continuation of the member(s) in the
appointment and shall transmit only a recommendation of removal to the City
Council.
   (b)   The City Council may remove the member from the Board upon Board
recommendation.
(Ord. 3094, passed 3-13-1989; Ord. 3697, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 50-156 ORGANIZATION; ELECTION OF CHAIRPERSON; ADOPTION OF RULES; MEETINGS;
RECORDS.
   (a)   The Board of Appeals shall organize, elect its Chairperson and adopt
rules for its own government in accordance with this chapter. Meetings of the
Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson, and at such other times as
the Board may determine.
   (b)   The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the Acting Chairperson, may
administer oaths and the Board may compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or, if
absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall keep records and its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3697, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 50-157 QUORUM; VOTES REQUIRED FOR ACTION.
   Six members of the Board of Appeals shall constitute a quorum. The Board
shall act by resolution or motion, and the concurring vote of a majority of the
members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement,
decision or determination of the Building Inspector or any other administrative
official, or to decide in favor of an applicant in any matter on which it is
required to pass under this chapter, or to effect a variance from the
requirements stipulated in this chapter, except that a concurring vote of two-
thirds of the members of the Board shall be necessary to grant a variance from
uses of land permitted in this chapter. The grounds of every such determination
shall set forth upon the record.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2665, passed 10-9-1978; Ord. 2880, passed 7-
11-1983; Ord. 3296, passed 5-8-1995; Ord. 3697, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 50-158 ASSISTANCE OF OTHER CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   The Board of Appeals may call upon the several City departments for
assistance in the performance of its duties. It shall be the duty of such
departments to render such assistance to the Board as may reasonably be
required.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3697, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 50-159 APPLICATIONS; APPEALS, HEARINGS AND THE LIKE.
   (a)   Filing of applications. An application, in cases in which the Board of
Appeals has original jurisdiction under the provisions of this chapter may be
taken by any property owner, or option holder, or by a tenant, with the consent
of the property owner, or by a governmental officer, department, board or
bureau. Such applications shall be filed with the Planning and Zoning office.
   (b)   Report on application. The Planning and Zoning office shall
investigate the application and submit a report to the Board.
   (c)   Filing of appeals. An appeal to the Board may be taken by any person
aggrieved by a decision of the Building Inspector or aggrieved by any action
taken under this chapter by any of the administrative officials of the City
charged with enforcement of the same, or by any officer, department, board or
bureau of the City affected by any decision of the Building Inspector. Such
appeal shall be taken within 20 days after the decision by filing with the
Planning and Zoning office a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof.
The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Zoning Board of
Appeals all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
   (d)   Report on appeal. The Planning and Zoning office shall investigate the
appeal and submit a report to the Board.
   (e)   Notice requirements and fees. The Board shall subscribe to all of the
following notice requirements as set forth by Michigan law.
      (1)   The City Planner or designee shall publish notice of the request
for hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Flint.
      (2)   Notice shall also be sent by mail or personal delivery to the
owners of property for which approval is being considered. Notice shall also be
sent to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the
property and to the occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the property
regardless of whether the property or occupant is located in the zoning
jurisdiction.
      (3)   The notice shall be given not less than 15 days before the date the
application will be considered for approval. If the name of the occupant is not
known, the term “occupant” may be used in making notification under this
subsection. The notice shall do all of the following:
         a.   Describe the nature of the request;
         b.   Indicate the property that is the subject of the request. The
notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses within the
property. Street addresses need not be created and listed. If no such addresses
exist within the property, other means of identification may be used;
         c.   State when and where the request will be considered; and
         d.   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
      (4)   Each application or appeal shall be accompanied by a check, payable
to the City of Flint, or a cash payment to cover the cost of publication or
posting, mailing the notices of the hearing or hearings and work performed in
relation to the application. The amount shall be established from time to time
by resolution of the City Council, kept on file by the City Clerk, and
contained in Appendix A of the City Code. At the hearing, any party may appear
in person or be represented by an agent or attorney.
   (f)   Decision of the Board.
      (1)   The Board shall decide all applications and appeals within 30 days
after the final hearing thereon. A copy of the Board’s decision shall be
transmitted to the applicant or appellant, and to the Building Inspector. The
decision shall be binding upon the Building Inspector and observed by him or
her, and he or she shall incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in
the permit to the applicant or appellant, whenever a permit is authorized by
the Board.
      (2)   The decision of the Board shall not become final until the
expiration of five days from the date of entry thereof, unless the Board shall
find the immediate taking effect of such decision is necessary for the
preservation of property or personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
   (g)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings regarding
the action on appeal, unless the entity or officer from which the appeal is
taken certifies to the Board, that a stay would cause imminent peril to life or
property. The entity or officer described above shall state the factual basis
for the opinion provided in a certificate provided to the Board. Otherwise,
proceedings shall only be stayed by a restraining order granted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals or circuit court.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 3043, passed 8-24-1987; Ord. 3080, passed
10-24-1988; Ord. 3429, passed 2-8-1999; Ord. 3697, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 50-159.1 EXTENDED APPEAL OF AN ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION.
   (a)   An appeal of an administrative decision may be filed after 20 calendar
days if the party filing the appeal did not receive actual notice of the
administrative decision.
   (b)   The decision to hear an appeal described in subsection (a) must be
approved by not less than six members of the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA).
   (c)   The ZBA does not have the authority to hear an appeal of an
administrative decision filed more than 30 calendar days after the appealing
party has received actual or constructive notice.
   (d)   An appeal taken to the ZBA under this section shall be consistent with
the procedures established in §
50-159 hereof.
(Ord. 3103, passed 7-24-1989; Ord. 3697, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 50-160 POWERS GENERALLY.
   The Board of Appeals shall have the following powers:
   (a)   Variances and interpretations of zoning map.  The Board shall have the
power to hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
applications, filed as provided in this article, for variances or
interpretation of the zoning map, or for decisions upon other special questions
upon which the Board is authorized to pass by this chapter. In considering an
application for a variance, the Board shall give due regard to the nature and
condition of all adjacent uses and structures; and in authorizing a variance,
the Board may impose such requirements and conditions with respect to location,
construction, maintenance and operation, in addition to those expressly
stipulated in this chapter for the particular variance, as the Board may deem
necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest.
   (b)   Other uses.  In addition to permitting the variances already
specified, the Board shall have the power to permit the following: temporary
structures and uses. The Board may authorize the temporary use of a structure
or premises in any district for a purpose or use that does not conform to the
regulations prescribed in this chapter for the district in which it is located;
provided, that such use is of a temporary nature and does not involve the
erection of a substantial structure. A zoning certificate for such use shall be
granted in the form of a temporary and revocable permit, for not more than a
12-month period, subject to such conditions as will safeguard the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare.
   (c)   Interpretation of zoning map. Where the street or lot layout actually
on the ground, or as recorded, differs from the street and lot lines as shown
on the zoning map, the Board, after notice to the owners of the property and
after public hearing, shall interpret the map in such a way as to carry out the
intent and purpose of this chapter. In case of any question as to the location
of any boundary line between zoning districts, a request for interpretation of
the zoning map may be made to the Board and a determination shall be made by
the Board.
   (d)   Interpretation of zoning ordinance text. The Board shall have the
authority to interpret the text of the City of Flint zoning ordinance; and any
such determination on this subject shall be final and appealable to the Circuit
Court for the County of Genesee.
   (e)   Administrative review.
      (1)   Hearings. The Board shall have the power to hear and decide
appeals, filed as provided in this article, where it is alleged by the
appellant that there is error in any order, requirements, decision,
determination, grant or refusal made by the Building Inspector or other
administrative official in the enforcement and interpretation of the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   Decisions. The Board shall, within its prescribed authority, have
the power to make its own, or reverse, affirm or modify, either in whole or in
part, any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building
Inspector or other administrative official that is before it.
   (f)   Variances. The Board shall have the power to authorize upon
application or appeal in specific cases filed as provided in this article, such
variances from the terms, provisions or requirements of this chapter and as
otherwise provided in the Code of ordinances as will not be contrary to the
public interest; provided, that such variances shall be granted only in such
cases where, owing to special and unusual conditions pertaining to a specific
piece of property, the literal enforcement of the provisions or requirements of
this chapter would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship. In
authorizing a variance, the Board may attach thereto such conditions regarding
the location, character and other features of the proposed structure or use as
it may deem necessary in the interest of the furtherance of the purposes of
this chapter and in the public interest. In authorizing a variance, with
attached conditions, the Board shall require such evidence and guarantee or
bond as it shall deem to be necessary to enforce compliance with the conditions
attached.
   (g)   Use variance.
      (1)   Purpose. A use variance allows a use in a zoning district that is
otherwise not allowed in that district under the terms of the zoning ordinance.
An applicant must show undue hardship to be granted a use variance.
      (2)   Findings of the Board. No such use variance shall be authorized by
the Board unless the Board finds that all the following facts and conditions
exist:
         a.   The property cannot be used (put to a reasonable use) for the
purposes permitted in that zone;
         b.   The plight is due to unique circumstances peculiar to the
property and not to general neighborhood conditions;
         c.   That the proposed use will not alter the essential character of
the area;
         d.   The problem was not a self-created hardship; and
         e.   Issuance of the variance would still ensure that the spirit of
the ordinance is observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
   (h)   Nonuse variance.
      (1)   Purpose. A nonuse variance is a variance relating to the
construction, structural changes or alterations of buildings or structures
related to dimensional requirements of the zoning ordinance or to any other
nonuse-related standard in the ordinance. An applicant must show “practical
difficulty” to be granted a nonuse variance.
      (2)   Findings of the Board. No such nonuse variance shall be authorized
by the Board unless the Board finds that all the following facts and conditions
exist:
         a.   The standard for which the variance is being granted would
unreasonably prevent the owner from using property for a permitted purpose or
would render conformity unnecessarily burdensome;
         b.   The variance is the minimum necessary to provide adequate relief
to the applicant and is not so large that it is unfair to similarly situated
property owners who managed to comply with the requirements or make do with a
smaller variance;
         c.   The problem is due to circumstances unique to the property and
not to general conditions in the area;
         d.   The problem that resulted in the need for the variance was not a
self-created hardship. In this instance “self-created” includes actions by the
current owner or past owners of the property; and
         e.   Issuance of the variance would still ensure that the spirit of
the ordinance is observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
   (i)   Expiration of variance. 
      (1)   Variance approval is valid for one year from the date of approval.
If the applicant has not established the use in the case of a use variance or
pulled a building permit to construct the structure authorized by a nonuse
variance, variance approval shall expire. If a building permit is issued within
a year of the variance approval but the building is not completed before
expiration of the building permit and the permit is not extended, the variance
approval shall expire.
      (2)   A use variance that ceases to be used for 12 consecutive months
shall expire. Where applicable, the 12-month period shall begin to run from the
date the use variance is approved.
(Ord. 2046, passed 4-11-1968; Ord. 2846, passed 7-26-1982; Ord. 3392, passed 1-
11-1999; Ord. 3697, passed 12-10-2007)
ARTICLE XXIX. SPECIAL REGULATED USES
§ 50-161 PURPOSE.
   (a)   In the development of a community it is recognized that there are some
uses which, because of their very nature, are recognized as having serious
objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when several of them
are concentrated under certain circumstances thereby having a deleterious
effect upon the adjacent areas. Special regulation of these uses is necessary
to ensure that these adverse effects will not contribute to the blighting or
downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood. These special regulations are
itemized in this article. The primary control or regulation is for the purpose
of preventing a concentration of these uses in any one area.
   (b)   Uses subject to these controls are as follows:
      (1)   Group “A” — Special regulated uses:
 
Adult bookstore
Adult motion picture theater
Adult mini motion picture theater
Establishments for consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises and
having adult entertainment
Massage establishments
Steam baths
Any other use, including a group B special regulated use, which provides goods or
services which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”
 
      (2)   Group “B” - Special regulated uses:
 
Liquor stores
Pawnshops
Tattoo establishments
 
      (3)   Group “C” - Special regulated uses:
 
Gaming tables
Pool or billiard halls
 
      (4)   Group “D” - Special regulated uses:
 
Wireless telecommunication antennas
Wireless telecommunication facilities
Wireless telecommunication towers
 
(Ord. 2599, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 2872, passed 3-14-1983; Ord. 3286, passed
12-12-1994; Ord. 3289, passed 1-9-1995; Ord. 3501, passed 10-14-2002; Ord.
3669, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 50-162 APPLICATION TO ESTABLISH A SPECIAL REGULATED USE.
   (a)   Application to establish any of the special regulated uses as itemized
in §
50-161 shall be made to the Planning and Zoning Office. Applications to
establish special regulated uses are subject to approval by the Planning
Commission and all requirements of this article.
   (b)   An approved application for a special regulated use, except a group
“D” use, shall become null and void if the use has not commenced within three
months of the approval date, unless the Planning Commission grants an extension
within that time. An extension may be granted by the Planning Commission, at
its sole discretion, upon request by the applicant at any regularly scheduled
meeting.
(Ord. 2599, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3669, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 50-163 LOCATIONAL STANDARDS — RELATIONSHIP TO SIMILAR USES.
   (a)   Group “A” special regulated uses (§
50-161).  An application to establish a group “A” special regulated use shall
not be approved if there is already in existence two or more group “A,” group
“B” or group “C” special regulated uses within 2,000 feet of the boundaries of
the site of the proposed regulated uses.
   (b)   Group “B” special regulated uses (§
50-161). An application to establish a group “B” special regulated use shall
not be approved if there is already in existence four or more group “B” or
group “C” special regulated uses within 2,000 feet of the boundaries of the
site of the proposed regulated uses.
   (c)   Group “C” special regulated uses (§
50-161). An application to establish a group “C” special regulated use shall
not be approved if there are already in existence four or more group “C”
special regulated uses within 2,000 feet of the boundaries of the site of the
proposed regulated use.
(Ord. 2599, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3286, passed 12-12-1994; Ord. 3669, passed
11-28-2005)
§ 50-164 LOCATIONAL STANDARDS — RELATIONSHIP TO RESIDENTIAL AREA AND OTHER
USES.
   (a)   Group “A” special regulated uses (§
50-161). An application to establish a group “A” special regulated use shall
not be approved if the proposed location is within 1,000 feet of any
residentially zoned district, mobile home park, K through 12 school, park or
church.
   (b)   Group “B” special regulated uses (§
50-161). An application to establish a group “B” special regulated use shall
not be approved if the proposed location is within 300 feet of a residentially
zoned district, mobile home park, K through 12 school, dedicated park or
church.
   (c)   Group “C” special regulated uses (§
50-161). An application to establish a group “C” special regulated use shall
not be approved if the proposed location is within 200 feet of a residentially
zoned district, mobile home park, K through 12 school, park or church, except
in the D-4 zoning district where this locational standard is waived.
(Ord. 2599, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 2727, passed 7-23-1979; Ord. 3669, passed
11-28-2005)
§ 50-165 SPECIAL ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply to all group “A” and group “B” special
regulated uses.
   (a)   The use must be located in a single free standing building on premises
devoted exclusively to the regulated use. A shared or common-wall building or
shopping center is not a single, freestanding building.
   (b)   The exterior color of the building must be approved by the Planning
Commission.
   (c)   The building and site shall be so designed, constructed and maintained
that displays, decorations or signs depicting, describing or relating to
specific sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are not visible from a
public right-of-way or adjacent property.
   (d)   The building in which the use is located shall not be connected to any
other business, dwelling or living quarters of any type.
   (e)   The building in which the use is located shall not, during business
hours, have the principal entrance and exit doors locked or obstructed in any
manner that impedes the ingress and egress of patrons.
(Ord. 3669, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 50-165.5 STANDARDS FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES AND WIRELESS
TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA AND TOWERS.
   (a)   All wireless telecommunication facilities shall be subject to the
requirements of this section, as well as any other applicable provisions of
this article and the Flint City Code. If at any time a wireless
telecommunication facility does not meet the provisions and regulations of this
article, the facility must be removed as provided in subsection (l).
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CO-LOCATION. The ability to attach wireless antenna to existing
structures which could include towers, rooftops, utility lines, church spires
and the like.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA. The device through which wireless
telecommunication signals, as authorized by the Federal Communications
Commission, are transmitted or received. Not included are AM/FM radio antenna,
television antenna, satellite dishes and licensed amateur radio facilities.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT SHELTER. The structure in which the
electronic receiving and transmitting equipment for a wireless
telecommunications is housed.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. A facility consisting of all
structures and equipment involved in transmitting and/or receiving
telecommunication signals from mobile communication sources and transmitting
those signals to a central switching computer, which connects the mobile unit
to the land-based telephone system. These facilities include but are not
limited to private and commercial mobile radio service facilities, personal
communication services (PCS) towers, and cellular telephone towers. Not
included in this definition are AM/FM radio towers, television towers,
satellite dishes and federally licensed amateur radio facilities.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION STEALTH DESIGN. Telecommunication facilities,
including towers and antennas camouflaged in ways to minimize visibility and
blend with their surroundings.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. A structure intended to support
equipment used to transmit and/or receive telecommunication signals including,
but not limited to, monopoles, freestanding lattice structures and guyed
lattice structures.
   (c)   Zoning district requirements. Wireless telecommunication facilities
shall be permitted with the following conditions.
      (1)   No new wireless telecommunication towers shall be permitted in the
single-family districts (A districts), two-family or townhouse districts (B
districts), multifamily districts (C districts), office districts (D-
1 districts), neighborhood business districts (D-2 districts), community
business districts (D-3 districts), metropolitan business districts (D-
4 districts) and metropolitan commercial-service districts (D-5 districts).
Stealth design of wireless facilities, towers and antennas shall be permitted
as a special regulated land use. Co-locations on existing wireless
telecommunication facilities or existing structures that do not require any
additional height shall be a permitted use.
      (2)   Wireless telecommunication facilities shall be permitted as a
special regulated land use in the general and highway commercial service
district (D-6 district), heavy commercial districts (E districts), intermediate
manufacturing districts (F districts) and the heavy manufacturing districts (G
districts).
      (3)   All telecommunication wireless facilities shall be prohibited in
the parking district as defined in Article XV-A.
      (4)   New wireless telecommunication facilities, towers or antennas
located within a historic district shall be prohibited. Stealth design of
wireless facilities, towers or antennas shall be permitted as a special
regulated land use upon review and approval of the Flint Historic District
Commission and the regulations set forth in this section. Co-location on
existing wireless telecommunication facilities or existing structures that do
not require additional height shall be a permitted use upon review and approval
by the Flint Historic District Commission.
      (5)   New wireless telecommunication towers located within a City park
shall be prohibited. Stealth design of wireless facilities, including towers
and antennas, shall be permitted as a special regulated land use. Co-locations
on existing wireless telecommunication facilities or existing structures that
do not require any additional height shall be a permitted use.
   (d)   Compliance with Federal regulations. 
      (1)   All telecommunication facilities shall comply with current
regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) or any other Federal or State agency with
authority to regulate telecommunication facilities, including towers and/or
antennas.
      (2)   In the event of a change in Federal or State regulation, the owner
of the telecommunication facility shall bring it into compliance with the
revised regulations within six months of the effective date of such
regulations, unless a different compliance schedule is mandated by the State or
Federal agency.
   (e)   Compliance with building codes. All wireless telecommunication shall
be constructed in compliance with all applicable building codes, including the
Electronic Industries Association/Telecommunication Industry (EIA/TIA)
standards for the construction of facilities including towers, antenna and
support structures.
   (f)   (1)   General site location requirements. No new wireless
telecommunication towers shall be permitted within a radius of 1,000 feet of an
existing wireless telecommunication tower unless the applicant can demonstrate
that the existing telecommunication tower is unsuitable for technical or
structural reasons.
      (2)   Setback requirements. 
         a.   In nonresidential zoning districts, wireless telecommunication
towers shall be set back at least 50% of the tower height from any adjoining
property zoned for nonresidential use.
         b.   In residential zoning districts, wireless telecommunication
towers shall be set back at least 50% of the tower height from all adjoining
property zoned for residential use.
         c.   Other structures associated with the wireless telecommunication
tower (such as equipment shelters, guy wire anchors) shall comply with the
setback requirements of the district in which the tower is located.
         d.   The setback requirements of this section are minimums. The
Planning Commission may require additional setback distance as part of a
special land use approval.
      (3)   Co-location requirements. Unless made technically infeasible as a
result of the use of stealth design, new wireless telecommunication towers
shall be designed to permit co-location by at least two additional entities and
proposed locations for wireless telecommunication facilities shall be
adequately sized and configured to allow the placement of at least two
additional telecommunication equipment shelters.
      (4)   Tower design. Wireless telecommunication towers that are not of
stealth design shall be constructed as freestanding structures (monopole or
lattice towers, as approved by the Planning Commission) and shall have a
neutral surface finish color to reduce visual obtrusiveness, except as
otherwise required by a State or Federal agency.
      (5)   Signs. Wireless telecommunication facilities shall not be used for
advertising purposes. Wireless telecommunication facilities shall display one
sign, not to exceed two square feet, which identifies the service provider and
an emergency telephone number. These restrictions shall not apply to any safety
signs placed on the security fence or tower.
      (6)   Fencing. Wireless telecommunication facilities shall be enclosed by
a solid screening fence not less than six feet in height. The Planning
Commission shall review the need for the installation of anti-climbing devices
and make a determination based on adjacent land use and zoning patterns.
      (7)   Screening. Wireless telecommunication facilities shall be
effectively screened with a landscape buffer, approved by the Planning
Commission, to obscure views of the tower base, equipment shelter, security
fencing, or guy wire anchors from adjacent uses and public rights-of-way.
Locations where the visual impact of the tower will be minimal or where
existing vegetation provide an effective natural screen or where the security
requirements of the principal use prevent screening (utility substations), the
Planning Commission may modify this requirement.
      (8)   Lighting. Wireless telecommunication towers shall not be
artificially lighted unless required by the FAA, FCC or other agency with
jurisdictional authority. If lighting is required by Federal regulation, the
applicant shall use the least intrusive form of lighting acceptable under the
controlling regulation.
      (9)   Equipment shelter design. The design and materials used in the
construction of the equipment shelter shall, to the extent possible, blend the
structure with the surrounding built or natural environment. The equipment
shelter shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
      (10)   Off-street parking. New wireless telecommunication facilities of
non-stealth design shall provide one off-street parking space to accommodate
maintenance vehicles if practicable. Driveways and parking spaces serving such
facilities may have a gravel surface provided the surface is maintained in a
dust-free condition and graded to maintain proper drainage.
   (g)   Permitted additional antenna. Wireless telecommunication antenna shall
be considered a permitted accessory use when placed on or attached to any
existing wireless telecommunication structure, provided that all other
applicable ordinance requirements are complied with. Any initial wireless
telecommunication antenna placed on an alternative tower structure shall be
subject to the same review and approval procedures as a new wireless
telecommunications facility. Subsequent antennas on alternative tower
structures shall be considered permitted accessory uses in all districts.
   (h)   Permitted tower placement. An existing wireless telecommunication
tower may be placed for the purposes of accommodating the co-location of
additional wireless telecommunication antennas subject to the following review
and approval process:
      (1)   Tower replacements that result in the addition of 50 or fewer feet
of additional tower height shall require site plan view and approval by the
Planning Commission;
      (2)   Tower replacements that result in the addition of more than 50 feet
in height shall require special land use review and approval by the Planning
Commission; and
      (3)   Tower replacements that require the installation of tower lights
shall require special land use review and approval by the Planning Commission.
   (i)   Site plan procedures. As shown in §
50-8.3.
   (j)   Application requirements. In addition to any other applicable
requirements of Article XXIX, the following information shall be provided in
support of an application to initially construct a wireless telecommunication
tower:
      (1)   Certification from a Michigan licensed professional engineer as to
the manner in which the proposed wireless telecommunication tower is designed
to collapse;
      (2)   A report that addresses the review criteria contained in subsection
(k) below. This report shall include a map depicting the existing and known
proposed location of telecommunication including telecommunication wireless
towers, wireless telecommunication antenna attached to alternative tower
structures, within a one-mile radius of the proposed site. This includes
wireless telecommunication towers located within adjacent jurisdictions within
the one-mile radius;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person to contact
regarding site maintenance or other notification purposes. The tower owner
shall periodically update this information; and
      (4)   A statement that indicates the applicant’s intent to allow the co-
location of other antenna, provided that the cost of modifying the existing
tower is borne by the co-locating entity and reasonable compensation is paid by
the co-locating entity.
   (k)   Review criteria. A wireless telecommunication tower shall not be
approved unless it can be demonstrated by the applicant that there is a need
for the tower which cannot be met by placing wireless telecommunication antenna
on an existing tower or other suitable structure, or placement of an existing
tower:
      (1)   No existing towers or alternative tower structures have the
structural capacity to support the proposed antenna, nor can existing towers or
alternative tower structures be reinforced to support the proposed antenna;
      (2)   No existing towers or alternative tower structures are located
within the geographic a that meets the system’s engineering requirements;
      (3)   The cost of using an existing tower or other suitable structure or
replacing an existing tower exceeds the cost of constructing a new wireless
telecommunication tower; or
      (4)   The installation or use of an alternative communication technology
is unsuitable or infeasible.
   (l)   Removal of abandoned facilities. Any wireless telecommunication tower
or antenna that is not operated for a continuous period of 12 months shall be
considered abandoned and the owner of such tower or antenna shall remove the
same within 90 days of receiving an abandonment notification from the City.
Failure to remove an abandoned tower or antenna within 90 days shall be grounds
for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner’s sole expense.
   (m)   Bond. Applicant shall provide the City with proof of an annual
performance bond in the amount of $7,500.00 to ensure that the applicant will
comply with the provisions set forth in subsection (l) regarding the removal of
an abandoned tower and/or antenna.
   (n)   Inspection. An inspection of the wireless telecommunication facility
shall be required every two years after the completion of improvements. The
inspection shall be carried out by the owner of the facility and shall certify
the structural integrity of the wireless telecommunication facility. The
inspection certification shall be submitted to the department budget, grants
and development and filed with the site permit documents. If the Department of
Budget, Grants and Development determines that an inspection has not been
completed within the two-year time period, a notice will be sent to the owner.
The owner shall have 30 days in which to comply with this requirement. If the
inspection is not completed within the 30 days, the permit for the wireless
telecommunication facility will be revoked.
(Ord. 3501, passed 10-14-2002; Ord. 3669, passed 11-28-2005)
§ 50-166 RESERVED.
§ 50-167 CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (a)   The Planning Commission may impose any conditions or limitations upon
the establishment, location, construction, maintenance or operations of
regulated use as may in its judgment be necessary for the protection of the
public interest. Any evidence and guarantee may be required as proof that the
conditions stipulated in connection therewith will be fulfilled.
   (b)   Any special regulated use that ceases for more than 30 days shall not
be resumed except by application and approval pursuant to §
50-162, unless the hiatus is caused by physical damage to the premises
amounting to not more than 50% of the value thereof.
   (c)   No special regulated use may be expanded in any manner without
approval of the Planning Commission.
   (d)   In the event of the death or documented long-term illness of the owner
or owners of a special regulated use, a waiver of subsection (b) above may be
granted by the Planning Commission at its sole discretion upon written request
by the owner or the owner’s estate, at any regularly scheduled meeting within
90 days of the closure of the business.
(Ord. 2599, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 2845, passed 7-26-1982; Ord. 3669, passed
11-28-2005)
§ 50-168 RESERVED.
§ 50-169 ZONING DISTRICTS REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL REGULATED USES.
   (a)   The special regulated uses itemized in this article shall be limited
to the following zoning districts:
      (1)   Group “A” special regulated uses shall be allowed in D-6, E, F and
G districts;
      (2)   Group “B” special regulated uses shall be allowed in D-5, D-6, E
and F districts; and
      (3)   Group “C” special regulated uses shall be allowed in D-4, D-5, D-6,
E and F Districts.
   (b)   Also, each special regulated use shall be subject to the specific
requirements of each zoning district and all other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2599, passed 4-25-1977; Ord. 3160, passed 2-25-1991; Ord. 3669, passed
11-28-2005)
ARTICLE XXX. FLOOD HAZARD MANAGEMENT
§ 50-170 SHORT TITLE.
   This article may be cited as the “Flood Hazard Management Ordinance of the
City of Flint.”
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-171 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Director of Building and Safety
Inspections interpretation of any provisions of this article or a request for a
variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated VO zone on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations
located within the area of special flood hazard.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land (or
contiguous parcels of land) divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent
or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which
the mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the
construction of streets) is completed before the effective date of this
article.
   EXPANSION TO EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete or
the construction of streets).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land area from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided in which the Federal
Insurance Administration has provided flood profiles, as well as the flood
insurance rate maps and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which include
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this article.
   NEW MOBILE HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two or more mobile home lots for rent or sale for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed on or
after the effective date of this article.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure that is transportable in one or more sections,
built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational or travel trailers.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (other than a mobile home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms, nor does it include the installation of property
of accessory buildings, such as garages, or sheds not occupied as dwelling
units or not as part of the main structure. For a structure without a basement
or poured footings, the START OF CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent
framing or assembly of the structure or any part thereof on its piling or
foundation. For mobile homes not within a mobile home park or mobile home
subdivision, START OF CONSTRUCTION means the affixing of the mobile home to its
permanent site. For mobile homes within mobile home parks or mobile home
subdivision, START OF CONSTRUCTION is the date on which the construction of
facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home is to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the construction of streets, either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads), and installation of utilities is
complete.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a mobile home or a gas or liquid
storage tank, that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         a.   Before the improvement means any repair is started; or
         b.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored before
the damage occurred. For the purposes of this definition “substantial
improvement” is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not the alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         a.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing State or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         b.   Any alterations of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCES. A grant of relief from the requirements of this article which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
article.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980; Ord. 2789, passed 2-23-1981)
§ 50-172 FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY ADOPTED.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled The Flood
Insurance Study for the City of Flint, 1980 with accompanying flood insurance
rate maps is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
article. The flood insurance study is on file in the City Clerk’s office of the
City.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-173 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (a)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
50-171 hereof. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the City and may include, but not be limited to, plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
   (b)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any structure
has been floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional civil engineer or
architect that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet
the floodproofing criteria in §
50-177 hereof; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-174 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Director of Building and Safety Inspections for the City is appointed to
administer and he or she shall implement this article by granting or denying
development permit applications in accordance with its provisions.
   (a)   Duties of the Director of Building and Safety Inspections shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review of all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this article have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required; and
      (3)   Review all development permits for compliance with the provisions
of §
50-177 hereof.
   (b)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
50-173 hereof, the Director of Building and Safety Inspections shall obtain,
review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available from a
Federal, State or other source, in order to administer §
50-177(d)(1) and §
50-177(d)(2).
   (c)   The Director of Building and Safety Inspections shall perform the
following duties:
      (1)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a
basement;
      (2)   For all new substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to the mean
sea level); and
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certification required in §
50-177 hereof.
      (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this article;
      (4)   Notify adjacent communities and the State coordinating agency prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of the
notification to the Federal Insurance Administration;
      (5)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished; and
      (6)   Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between the mapped boundary and actual field
conditions). The persons contesting the locations of the boundary shall be
given reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
section.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-175 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals as established by the City shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
article.
   (b)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Director of Building and Safety Inspections in the enforcement or
administration of this article.
   (c)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals may
appeal the decision to the Circuit Court for Genesee County, as provided by
construction, case law and statutes of the State of Michigan.
   (d)   In passing upon such applications, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this article, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effects of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of services provided by the proposed facility to the
community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed used
which is not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program of that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system, and streets and
bridges.
   (e)   Upon consideration of the factors enumerated in §
50-178, and the purpose of this article, the Zoning Board of Appeals may attack
such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further
the purpose of this article.
   (f)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions including technical information and report any variances to the Federal
Insurance Administration upon request.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-176 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (a)   Generally variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, provided §
50-175(d)(1) through (d)(11) have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   (b)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (c)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford the relief.
   (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance is the minimum
necessary, considering flood hazard, to afford the relief; and
      (3)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would not result
in the increased flood height, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public as identified in §
50-173 hereof, or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (f)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-177 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (a)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards the following
standards are required.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   Construction materials and methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage; and
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All mobile homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or
lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors.
Special requirements shall be that:
         a.   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
mobile home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations, with
mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
         b.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with mobile homes less than 50
feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         c.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
         d.   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
   (b)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate flood waters into the system and discharge from the
systems into flood waters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (c)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood waters.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided, the cumulative effect
of any proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, shall not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one-tenth of a foot at any point.
   (d)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in §
50-172 hereof, or in §
50-178, the following standards are required:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above base flood elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including the basement elevated to the
level of the base flood elevation; or, together with the attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and/or
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall
be provided to the officials as set forth in §
50-173(b)(3).
      (3)   Mobile homes.
         a.   Mobile homes shall be anchored in accordance with §
50-177(a)(3); and
         b.   For the new mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions; for
expansions to existing mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions; for
existing mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions where repair,
reconstruction or improvement of the streets, utilities and pads equals or
exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair,
reconstruction or improvement has commenced; and for mobile homes not placed in
mobile home parks or mobile home subdivisions, require that:
            1.   Stands or lots are elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so
that the lowest floor of the mobile home will be at or above the base flood
level;
            2.   Adequate surface drainage access for a hauler are provided;
and
            3.   In the instance of elevation on pilings that:
               i.   Lots are large enough to permit steps;
               ii.   Piling foundations are placed in stable soil no more than
ten feet apart; and
               iii.   Reinforcement is provided for pilings more than six feet
above the ground level.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980; Ord. 2789, passed 2-23-1981)
§ 50-178 FLOODWAY.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard as established in §
50-172 hereof are areas designated as floodway. Since the floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
   (a)   Prohibited encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless a technical evaluation
demonstrates that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
   (b)   If §
50-177 is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §
50-178.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-179 PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this article and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this article and
other applicable regulations Violation of the provisions of this article, or
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of the
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this article or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500.00 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both, for each
violation, and in additional shall pay the costs and the expenses involved in
the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-180 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This article is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this article and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 50-181 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this article is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Later floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This article does not
imply that the land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This
article shall not create liability on the part of the City, any officer or
employee thereof, or the Federal Insurance Administration for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this article or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2787, passed 12-22-1980)
ARTICLE XXXI. ENFORCEMENT
§ 50-182 PENALTIES.
   (a)   A violation of any provision of this chapter, excluding Article XXI;
Article XXII; Article XXIII; Article XXIX, § 165.5; or Article XXX, shall be a
municipal civil infraction pursuant to §
1-10 through §
1-21 of this code, unless another penalty is exclusively prescribed by State
law.
   (b)   Any building, structure or use not in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter, except a lawful nonconforming use under Article XXVI of this
chapter, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se and subject to
abatement as provided by law.
(Ord. 3667, passed 8-8-2005)
APPENDIX: COMPILED ILLUSTRATIONS
Illustration
   
50-1   Typical lot definitions
   
50-96(b)   Typical locations of accessory buildings on double frontage lots
   
50-133 – 50-142   Typical parking regulations abutting residences
50-1 TYPICAL LOT DEFINITIONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bf649bea18b3a11a1f89ec07cac3adc69557cd52/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
 
50-96(b)   TYPICAL LOCATIONS OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS ON DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bf649bea18b3a11a1f89ec07cac3adc69557cd52/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
 
50-133 – 50-142 TYPICAL PARKING REGULATIONS ABUTTING RESIDENCES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bf649bea18b3a11a1f89ec07cac3adc69557cd52/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.jpg]
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES *
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2898     3-21-1984   Cable franchise granted to Comcast Cablevision of Flint,
                     Inc. for 15 years
3433     3-22-1999   Cable franchise granted to Comcast Cablevision of Flint,
                     Inc. (expires December 27, 1999)
3448     1-10-2000   Cable franchise granted to Comcast Cablevision of Flint,
                     Inc. (expires December 27, 2000)
3480     7-23-2001   Cable franchise granted to Comcast Cablevision of Flint,
                     Inc. (expires December 27, 2001)
                     Cable franchise granted to Comcast Cablevision of Flint,
3493     5-13-2002   Inc. (expires December 31, 2016)TABLE II: ZONING MAP
                     CHANGES
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES *
Below are listed Ordinances passed after October 11, 2000 that change the
zoning classification of property in the city but that have not been codified
into the Code of Ordinances (such ordinances passed prior to October 11, 2000
are not recorded here).
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date       Description
         Passed
3460     eff. 10-   Rezoning two lots on Edmund Avenue near Industrial Avenue,
         11-2000    being Lots 62 and 122 of Stewart’s Plat #2, from A-2 to P
         eff. 11-8- Rezoning four parcels near N. Saginaw and Carpenter Roads,
3463     2000       Lots 279, 280, 281 and 282 Part of Belleview, from A-2 to
                    D-3
         eff. 11-   Rezoning several parcels adjoining 2310 S. Saginaw Street,
3464     26-2000    Lots 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Peer Addition and unplatted parcel
                    #11-19-230-008-1, from C to D-6
3466     eff. 2-11- Rezoning 1202, 1204 and 1214 N. Ballenger Hwy. from D-1 to
         2001       D-3
         eff. 4-15- Rezoning five lots near the corner of Richfield and Center
3468     2001       Roads, Lots 07-33-476-074, 07-33-476-075, 07-33-476-076,
                    07-33-476-077 and 07-33-476-078, from A-2 to D-3
                    Rezoning Lots 1-5 and Outlot B, Block G of Palmer Woods
3470     3-26-2001  Sub., located on Cheyenne Avenue from A-2 to P; and
                    unplatted 389.42-foot strip of land 25 feet wide, just east
                    of said lots, from A-2 and B to P
3471     5-14-2001  Rezoning Genesys West Flint Campus parking lot at the SW
                    corner of Ballenger Hwy. and Beecher Road from C-1 to D-3
                    Rezoning Lots 190 and 191 of Hills-MacPherson Plat, near
3477     6-11-2001  the SW corner of Dort Hwy. and Oklahoma Avenue, from B to
                    D-3
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
3478 6-11-  Rezoning Lot 3 of Assessor’s Plat No. 7, on the west side of Bradley just
     2001   south of W. Court Street, from A-2 to D-2
3479 7-23-  Rezoning 416 S. Gr. Traverse from G to D-5
     2001
3483 10-22- Rezoning Lots 12 and 13 of Berstons Subdivision, near M. L. King and Dewey,
     2001   from B to D-2
3492 4-22-  Rezoning part of parcel #11-04-352-016, 2010 N. Dort Hwy., from G to D-6
     2002
     9-22-  Rezoning four parcels, ##40-24-351-003, 40-24-351-004, 40-24-351-014 and 40-
3519 2003   24-351-016, on the north side of Executive Plaza Drive between Van Slyke
            Road and Penbrook Lane, from D-1 to D-3
3520 11-10- Rezoning 642 E. Foss Avenue from A-2 to D-3
     2003
            Rezoning two properties: Parcel #46-35-226-006, located on the west side of
3521 2-23-  Winthrop Blvd. between W. Pierson Road and Marengo Avenue, Flint Park No. 1
     2004   Lots 96 through 100, from A-2 to D-2; and part of parcel #46-35-226-007,
            Flint Park No. 1 Lot 95, from B to D-2
3523 4-7-   Rezoning part of parcel #40-12-233-007 on the NW corner of N. Saginaw Street
     2004   and E. Wood Street in George E. Pomeroy’s Addition, from C-1 to D-6
3619 7-12-  Rezoning part of parcel #46-35-481-030 at northwest corner of W. Pasadena
     2004   and Milbourne Avenues from B to D-2
3620 8-9-   Rezoning parcel #46-25-481-013 on Proctor Avenue north of W. Pasadena from
     2004   A-2 to D-2
3631 1-10-  1202 S. Ballenger Hwy. from A-2 to D-2
     2005
3635 3-14-  Rezoning part of parcels ##40-15-276-012 and 40-15-276-009 on the Genesys
     2005   West Flint Campus from C-1 to D-2
3651 6-13-  Rezoning 501 S. Ballenger Hwy. from C-1 to D-2
     2005
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3661     7-25-2005   Rezoning parcel #40-23-305-064 near SE intersection of
                     Ballenger Hwy. and Miller Road from D-1 to C-1
                     Rezoning 4220 Fleming Road and unplatted parcels ##46-35-
3674     12-21-2005  256-004 and 46-35-256-005 on W. Stewart Avenue from C-1 to
                     D-2
3675     1-9-2006    Rezoning unplatted parcel #40-12-406-030 on W. Fifth
                     Avenue from C-2 to D-2
3676     4-24-2006   Rezoning 1702 E. Hamilton Avenue and 1706 E. Hamilton
                     Avenue from B to P
3679     5-8-2006    Rezoning 1517 W. Atherton Road from D-1 to D-2
3680     6-12-2006   Rezoning 625 Warren Street, parcel #40-01-430-027 from B
                     to D-2
                     Rezoning 1819 S. Dort Hwy., part of parcel #41-16-302-021,
3681     8-28-2006   and the adjoining part of Vac Bogardus Street adjoining
                     split on 2-22-2005 from parcel #41-16-302-017, from F to E
3686     1-22-2007   Rezoning 421, 413 and 411 Garland Street from D-2 to D-5
3689     4-23-2007   Rezoning 3614 Corunna Road from D-3 to D-6
3690     5-14-2007   Rezoning 4105 Keyes Street and a vacant lot on Donnelly
                     Street, parcel #46-35-430-010, from A-2 to C-1
3693     6-25-2007   Rezoning 2764 Flushing Road from D-1 to D-3
3696     11-12-2007  Rezoning 626 Begole Street from B-1 to C-1, as restricted
                     hereby
                     Rezoning 5411 Selby Street and four vacant lots on E.
3698     12-10-2007  Ridgeway Avenue, parcel ##47-30-457-001, 47-30-457-002,
                     47-30-457-003 and 47-30-457-004, from A-2 to D-2
3699     1-14-2008   Rezoning 4084 N. Dort Hwy. from D-6 to E
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3700     1-14-2008   Rezoning 650 and 700 Ann Arbor Street from G to C-2
3702     4-14-2008   Rezoning 1207 N. Ballenger Hwy. from D-1, B and A-2 to D-2
3709     5-12-2008   Rezoning 2021 W. Carpenter Road from A-2 to D-1
3710     5-12-2008   Rezoning 654 W. Atherton Road from B to C-1, as restricted
                     hereby
                     Rezoning nine vacant properties on Industrial Avenue and
                     on Maines Street, parcels ##47-31-184-011, 47-31-184-012,
3718     7-14-2008   47-31-184-014, 47-31-184-015, 47-31-184-026, 47-31-184-
                     028, 47-31-184-029, 47-31-184-031 and 47-31-184-032 from B
                     to D-3
3719     7-14-2008   Rezoning 1003-1015 Manning Street from C-1 to P
                     Rezoning three vacant properties known as Woodward Square
3728     9-22-2008   lots, parcels ##46-35-184-012, 46-35-331-008 and 46-35-
                     331-009 on 4229, 4221 Fleming Road, from C-1 to P and from
                     A-2 to P
                     Rezoning three vacant properties on 2917 and 3011 N.
3730     11-10-2008  Center Road, parcels #41-04-277-063 from A-2 to D-2; #41-
                     04-27-064 from A-2 to D-2; and #41-04-277-073 from A-2, B
                     and D-3 to D-2
3750     4-13-2009   Rezoning 2031 Canterbury Lane from A-2 to D-2, as
                     restricted hereby
3752     5-11-2009   Rezoning 2643 Clio Road from D-2 to C-1, as restricted
                     hereby
                     Rezoning 67 parcels located between N. Saginaw Street,
3777     8-9-2010    North Street, Leith Street and Dartmouth Street, from E to
                     D-3
3778     8-9-2010    Rezoning 503 Garland Street from D-2 to D-5
3779     8-9-2010    Rezoning 4514, 4518, 4522 and 4602 Glenn Avenue from A-
                     2 to D-2
3781     8-23-2010   Rezoning 2850 E. Court Street from F to E
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3788     2-14-2011   Rezoning parcel # 40-14-156-018, legally described as
                     Glendale Lot 99 Exc, at 3738 Beecher Road from A-2 to D-1
                     Rezoning property commonly known as the Great Lakes
                     Technology Center located at South Saginaw Street, between
3789     2-14-2011   Atherton Road and Hemphill Road, parcel #s 41-30-206-066,
                     41-30-206-072, 41-30-206-075, 41-30-206-076, 41-30-206-
                     077, 41-30-206-078, 41-30-253-001, from G to D-6
3793     4-25-2011   Rezoning property located at 5928 Clio Road, parcel # 46-
                     26-302-033 from D-3 to C-2
3812     1-13-2012   Rezoning property located at 3612 Davison Road, parcel #s
                     41-09-202-013 and 41-09-202-012 from D-3 to D-6
3813     1-13-2012   Rezoning property located at 2150 North Dort Hwy., parcel
                     # 41-04-352-017 from G to D-6
3814     1-13-2012   Rezoning property located at 2838 East Court Street,
                     parcel # 41-16-101-021 from F to D-3
 
APPENDIX A
Editor’s note:
   A copy of the City’s Master Fee Schedule is available in the offices of the
City Hall.
PART III: PARALLEL REFERENCES AND INDEX
References to Michigan Statutes Annotated
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN STATUTES ANNOTATED
MSA Section Code Section
MSA Section           Code Section
3.560(7) et seq.      49-5
3.560(21.1) et seq.   49-5
4.559(1) – 4.559(25)Ch. 19
4.1353                13-3
4.1700(51) et seq.    1-132
5.2082                1-7
5.2581 et seq.        46-20
5.2832                Ch. 50
5.2931 et seq.        50-151.1
5.2933(2)             50-90.1
5.2949(1) et seq.     36-1,
                      50-1
5.3194(11)            18-22
7.1 through 7.101     24-3
7.99                  18-24
9.1801 et seq.        Ch. 28,
                      28-1.2
9.1832(2)             28-30.1
9.2324(1) et seq.     28-28.6
9.2410                28-13
9.2427                28-152
9.2442                28-7.1
9.2641 through 9.2643 28-98.2
9.2660                28-98.1
12.1-81(1) et seq.    Ch. 49
12.1081(1) et seq.    49-5,
                      49-11
13.1064(1)            33-8.1
14.15(1101) et seq.   31-27.3
14.15(7101) et seq.   31-11,
                      31-12
17.277(10)            35-81,
                      35-88
18.971 et seq.        Ch. 6
18.1287(72)           48-1
18.1287(73)           48-2
18.1287(77)           48-4
18.1287(78)           48-5
24.13101 et seq.      28-28,
                      28-30.1
25.358(11)            50-90.1
28.340                31-6
28.419                31-20.1
28.440(4)             12-272
28.521 – 28.526     49-27
32.223                35-63
32.224                35-63
 
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
MCLA Section Code Section
MCLA Section              Code Section
10.31                     14-13
15.231                    15-65,
                          15-78
15.231 to 15.246          15-65,
                          15-78
15.321 et seq.            1-132
15.404                    1-141
24.201 et seq.            28-1.1
24.201 through 24.313     28-183
24.201 through 24.328     28-1.1
25.581 et seq.            50-151.1
28.243                    2-80.1
28.422                    31-20
29.3c                     31-20.3
30.401                    14-18
36.1 to 36.12             50-1
38.1681 et seq.           35-46.4
38.1701 through 38.1711   35-15.1
38.2701 et seq.           35-46.4
117                       2-16
117 et seq.               Ch. 2
117.1 et seq.             12-272
                          19-1,
117.3(k)                  24-1,
                          24-4,
                          28-1.2
117.4q                    31-80
117.4q(11)                31-82
117.5b                    1-1
125.651 through 125.709e  2-18
125.1401 et seq.          18-4.1,
                          18-4.2
125.1415a(1)              18-4.8
125.1415a(5)              18-4.8
                          16-1,
125.1501 et seq.          22-1,
                          36-1,
                          50-1
125.1501                  11-1,
                          11-31
125.1601 et seq.          2-122
                          2-125,
125.1651 through 125.1657 2-127,
                          2-128
125.1653                  2-129
125.1659 through 125.1680 2-125
125.1659 through 125.1681 2-127,
                          2-128
125.2101                  2-162
 
MCLA Section Code Section
MCLA Section          Code Section
125.2681 to 125.2696  18-23
141.501 et seq.       18-23
141.601 et seq.       18-22
141.601               18-22
169.201 et seq.       1-152
211.1 to 211.157      1-19
211.1 through 211.57  24-3
211.55                18-24
247.651 et seq.       15-74
257.1 et seq.         28-34,
                      28-198
257.1 through 257.923 28-1.2
257.1                 28-1.2
257.8b                31-46,
                      31-77
257.09                28-12
257.32b               28-30.1
257.209 et seq.       28-184
257.212               28-187
257.226a or 257.226b  28-28.1
257.251b              12-70
257.252               28-35
257.252e              28-34
257.252(e)            28-36,
                      28-38
257.252(f)            28-36,
                      28-38
257.252g              28-38
257.252(g)            28-38
257.301 et seq.       28-184
257.605 et seq.       28-1.3
257.605               28-1.3
257.608 et seq.       28-120
257.613 et seq.       28-126
257.614               28-127
257.615               28-124
257.616               28-121
257.617 et seq.       28-160
257.620               28-159
257.624a et seq.      28-28.6
257.625 et seq.       28-28
257.625m              28-28
257.625n              28-28
257.626               28-51,
                      28-65
257.627               28-70
257.634               28-53
257.635               28-56
257.636               28-57
 
MCLA Section Code Section
MCLA Section              Code Section
257.637                   28-59
257.638                   28-58
257.639                   28-58
257.644                   28-48
257.650                   28-74
257.654                   28-60,
                          28-62
257.656 et seq.           28-165 
257.674                   28-94
257.677                   28-14
257.683                   28-128
257.688                   28-1.3,
                          28-141
257.694                   28-134
257.696                   28-139
257.698a                  28-85.1
257.705                   28-129
257.706                   28-132
257.708                   28-142
257.710                   28-144,
                          28-145
257.710d                  28-13
257.710e                  28-13
257.716 et seq.           28-149
257.727                   28-152
257.742(8)(a)             28-7.1
257.904 et seq.           28-187
257.904c                  28-28.1
257.904d                  28-28
257.904(d)                28-28
257-904(e)                28-28
257.909                   28-1.3
257.941 et seq.           28-98.2
257.961                   28-98.1
257.1101 et seq.          28-30
289.8101 through 289.8111 12-176
290.601 et seq.           12-92
318.251                   33-8.1
324.82102 et seq.         28-196
333.701 et seq.           31-11,
                          31-12.1
                          31-27.1,
333.1101 et seq.          31-27.2,
                          31-27.3
333.7101 et seq.          31-11,
                          31-12
333.7201 et seq.          31-5.1
338.1051 et seq.          12-79
338.1501 et seq.          12-9
380.1561 et seq.          31-5.5
380.1561                  31-5.4
 
MCLA Section Code Section
MCLA Section                 Code Section
380.1561 to 380.1599         31-5.4
388.551 through 388.558      8-35
399.201                      2-144
399.202                      2-141
409.101 et seq.              12-175
432.201 to 432.216           18-23
436.1 through 436.58 et seq. 6-5.2
                             6-1,
436.1 through 436.58         6-5,
                             6-7
445.401 et seq.              12-53.1,
                             12-58
445.481 et seq.              12-53.1
446.51 et seq.               Ch. 10
                             12-53.1,
446.201 et seq.              12-58,
                             12-62.1
460.701 et seq.              15-89
480.17                       28-1.3
480.17b                      28-1.3
480.17c                      28-1.3
480.21                       28-1.3
484.2101 et seq.             15-64.1,
                             15-65
484.2101                     15-64.1
484.2361                     15-89
484.3101 et seq.             15-64,
                             15-86
484.3101                     15-86
484.3106(7)                  15-88
384.3106(8)                  15-88
484.3115(3)                  15-92
484.3301 et seq.             15-86
484.3301                     15-86
500.3009                     28-30.1
500.3101 et seq.             28-30.1
560.186                      2-37
600.8719                     1-13
600.8721                     1-13
600.8729                     1-19
712A.2                       31-5.1
722.1 et seq.                31-5.5
722.1 to 722.6               31-5.4
722.111 through 722.128      50-90.1
750.49                       31-3
750.50                       9-1
750.81                       31-12,
                             31-12.1
750.222 et seq.              31-20.1
750.222                      31-20.1
750.226a                     31-39
750.240                      19-11
 
MCLA Section Code Section
MCLA Section    Code Section
750.243a        31-20.3
750.243b        31-20.3
750.243d        12-272,
                31-20.3
750.243d(b)     31-20.3
750.243e        31-20.3
750.301 et seq. 31-22
750.411a        31-19
750.479         31-1,
                31-2
750.493d        31-36
750.509         31-19
752.52          28-155
760.1           28-28
760.1 to 777.69 28-28
764.15a         31-12,
                31-12.1
764.91c         28-204
767.39          1-7.3
769.4a          31-12,
                31-12.1
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
39       5-12-1900   13-3,
                     13-4
100      5-28-1901   28-44
144      3-10-1902   31-23 –
                     31-25
11       5-13-1902   19-21 –
                     19-28
43       10-17-1902  31-34,
                     31-35
43       8-6-1904    11-10 –
                     11-16
109      6-16-1908   33-1 –
                     33-16
113      12-29-1908  42-19
                     8-45 –
130      5-25-1909   8-48,
                     8-50 –
                     8-57
                     42-5 –
                     42-8,
                     42-10 –
100      8-3-1909    42-13,
                     42-15 –
                     42-17,
                     42-22 –
                     42-24
120      8-3-1909    42-14
152      8-3-1909    31-57
105      10-25-1911  42-20
13       8-20-1912   19-29
146      10-5-1915   31-20
97       7-23-1917   37-9 –
                     37-12
98       7-23-1917   37-1
9        8-21-1917   46-25 –
                     46-30
137      9-18-1917   12-53.1
                     10-1 –
138      12-7-1917   10-3,
                     10-5 –
                     10-8
                     45-5 –
111      12-2-1918   45-11,
                     45-13 –
                     45-15
143      5-31-1921   31-46,
                     31-47
153      5-31-1921   31-43.1
128      6-6-1921    12-198 –
                     12-202
154      11-22-1921  31-42
158      11-7-1922   13-1 –
                     13-4
328      7-25-1923   10-5
39       8-21-1923   50-14
                     31-15,
186      10-14-1924  31-17,
                     31-18
195      10-19-1925  31-48
214      7-25-1926   31-49
                     9-1 –
232      1-25-1927   9-3,
                     9-21
-        1-7-1929    45-8
327      4-23-1929   42-4
335      1-24-1930   19-11 –
                     19-14
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     12-203,
                     12-209 –
                     12-213,
                     12-215 –
347      6-26-1930   12-217,
                     12-219 –
                     12-230,
                     12-232 –
                     12-234
370      1-29-1931   12-91 –
                     12-97
                     12-139 –
388      6-1-1931    12-141,
                     12-145,
                     12-146
                     10-4,
389      6-15-1931   10-9,
                     10-10
162      8-31-1931   11-17 –
                     11-25
411      2-8-1932    29-2 –
                     29-16
422      6-28-1932   12-98 –
                     12-100
463      6-26-1933   10-4,
                     10-11
476      4-12-1934   31-5
14       9-17-1934   8-2
47       8-26-1935   42-39 –
                     42-42
136      4-20-1937   2-1 –
                     2-3
156      7-12-1937   12-154 –
                     12-170
193      11-29-1937  19-98 –
                     19-102
200      1-10-1938   31-19
227      4-25-1938   35-23
                     12-1 –
235      4-25-1938   12-8,
                     33-17,
                     33-18
277      2-14-1939   2-27 –
                     2-38
                     19-15,
291      4-10-1939   46-8 –
                     46-24
                     42-34 –
296      5-9-1939    42-38,
                     42-47
297      5-8-1939    30-2 –
                     30-8
                     12-139 –
306      5-24-1939   12-142,
                     12-145,
                     12-146
337      10-16-1939  12-154
                     12-211 –
410      3-31-1941   12-213,
                     12-216,
                     12-227
411      3-31-1941   29-1
419      5-7-1941    42-26 –
                     42-33
                     12-54 –
                     12-61,
426      5-26-1941   12-63 –
                     12-66,
                     12-68,
                     12-69
428      6-2-1941    12-195 –
                     12-197
435      7-21-1941   7-6 –
                     7-12
457      2-5-1942    18-4
                     35-85 –
                     35-89,
474      3-20-1942   35-91,
                     35-97,
                     35-98
483      3-20-1942   12-9 –
                     12-17
                     42-43 –
505      10-5-1942   42-46,
                     42-48 –
                     42-68
                     6-1,
570      2-5-1945    6-2,
                     6-3,
                     6-5
576      4-9-1945    35-87
587      6-25-1945   12-234
590      7-5-1945    6-6 –
                     6-24
598      10-8-1945   12-180 –
                     12-185
599      10-8-1945   12-24 –
                     12-37
610      2-11-1946   35-95,
                     35-96
636      7-8-1946    8-14 –
                     8-22
637      7-8-1946    8-4 –
                     8-12
638      7-8-1946    8-1
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
652      11-11-1946  30-9
684      7-21-1947   18-12
816      6-28-1948   46-16
839      1-10-1949   42-69 –
                     42-76
844      2-7-1949    8-57
849      1-5-1950    28-46
851      4-18-1949   37-2 –
                     37-8
                     12-184,
856      5-2-1949    12-186 –
                     12-193
860      5-23-1949   28-29
882      10-3-1949   18-6
886      10-3-1949   7-8
                     28-1 –
                     28-10,
                     28-12,
                     28-14,
                     28-16 –
                     28-27,
                     28-43,
                     28-45,
                     28-47 –
                     28-64,
                     28-66 –
                     28-94,
                     28-97 –
                     28-103,
894      1-5-1950    28-105 –
                     28-112,
                     28-114 –
                     28-140,
                     28-142,
                     28-143,
                     28-146,
                     28-147,
                     28-149 –
                     28-175,
                     28-179 –
                     28-187,
                     28-194,
                     42-1 –
                     42-3
902      2-27-1950   9-6 –
                     9-14
908      4-17-1950   12-167 –
                     12-169
911      4-24-1950   9-6
916      5-22-1950   33-19 –
                     33-24
200      10-19-1951  42-18
1022     4-24-1952   12-12,
                     12-15
                     12-2,
1038     9-4-1952    12-3,
                     12-6
1039     9-4-1952    12-27,
                     12-29
1044     9-22-1952   9-4,
                     9-5
                     39-1,
1045     10-20-1952  39-32 –
                     39-41
1054     12-29-1952  18-7 –
                     18-10
1063     3-17-1953   42-16
1065     3-24-1953   28-76
1066     3-24-1953   10-6
1070     3-24-1953   8-17
1071     3-24-1953   12-215
1072     3-24-1953   12-92
1073     3-24-1953   12-13
1076     3-24-1953   42-29
1083     3-24-1953   12-157
1089     3-24-1954   12-199
1091     3-24-1953   12-5
                     9-15 –
1094     4-13-1953   9-20,
                     9-22
1103     4-13-1953   42-36
1119     6-2-1953    45-1 –
                     45-4
1138     10-19-1953  31-36
1155     1-18-1954   31-11
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1157     1-25-1954   12-149 –
                     12-153
1174     4-5-1954    6-7,
                     6-11
1210     - -         31-18
1212     8-5-1954    12-17
1213     8-5-1954    12-145
1215     8-5-1954    12-143,
                     12-144
1223     9-13-1954   18-10
1242     1-3-1955    42-74
1245     1-10-1955   12-218
1261     3-14-1955   12-55
                     28-1,
                     28-47,
                     28-54,
1311     1-5-1956    28-62,
                     28-78 –
                     28-82,
                     28-153
1322     4-2-1956    12-221
1327     5-7-1956    12-186
1328     5-7-1956    46-1 –
                     46-5
1333     6-25-1956   14-1 –
                     14-4
1336     6-25-1956   42-51
1349     9-5-1956    28-66,
                     28-68
1360     1-7-1957    19-100
1362     1-21-1957   31-17
1367     2-25-1957   6-24
1375     4-8-1957    17-1 –
                     17-6
                     42-48,
                     42-60 –
1376     4-8-1957    42-62,
                     42-64 –
                     42-66,
                     42-68
1381     4-29-1957   12-160,
                     12-166
1381     5-29-1957   12-161
                     28-157,
1398     9-30-1957   28-164,
                     28-166,
                     28-167
1404     10-14-1957  35-85,
                     35-88
1406     11-4-1957   31-19
1421     1-27-1958   28-63
                     5-3,
1423     2-17-1958   5-4,
                     5-6 –
                     5-8
1428     3-17-1958   12-171 –
                     12-179
1435     4-28-1958   46-2 –
                     46-5
1437     6-2-1958    31-11
1453     9-8-1958    35-95
1458     9-29-1958   12-174
1468     1-19-1959   28-98
1472     2-9-1959    Repealed
1493     7-6-1959    12-203
                     46-54 –
                     46-61,
1498     7-29-1959   46-64 –
                     46-70,
                     46-73,
                     46-74
1499     7-29-1959   12-175
1501     7-29-1959   12-230
1513     10-5-1959   6-11
1582     8-22-1960   28-52
1583     8-22-1960   8-2
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1590     8-29-1960   6-20
                     12-54,
1605     10-17-1960  12-56,
                     12-59 –
                     12-61
1607     10-17-1960  28-147,
                     28-150
1613     11-10-1960  7-11
1619     12-19-1960  31-58
1623     1-30-1961   42-70
                     35-87,
1625     2-27-1961   35-89,
                     35-91,
                     35-92
1630     4-10-1961   6-5
1632     5-8-1961    46-68
1640     6-19-1961   28-102
                     7-9,
1657     11-27-1961  7-10,
                     7-12
1661     1-22-1962   18-1
1662     1-22-1962   31-6
1666     3-19-1962   12-209
                     12-24,
1671     5-7-1962    12-32,
                     12-36
1672     5-7-1962    39-35
1679     6-18-1962   29-14
1684     7-23-1962   39-38
1685     7-23-1962   12-66
1686     7-23-1962   48-1 –
                     48-7
1703     1-14-1963   28-75
1706     2-18-1963   28-125 –
                     28-127
                     28-12,
                     28-14,
                     28-84,
                     28-85,
                     28-128,
1710     3-18-1963   28-133,
                     28-135,
                     28-143,
                     28-188 –
                     28-191,
                     28-193
1714     5-6-1963    12-210
1715     5-20-1963   12-1
1717     5-20-1963   7-1 –
                     7-5
1724     6-24-1963   28-152
                     28-174,
                     28-175,
1983     7-16-1963   28-177,
                     28-179 –
                     28-183
1732     7-29-1963   7-1
                     42-49,
1733     7-29-1963   42-55 –
                     42-58
1741     9-30-1963   12-38 –
                     12-42
1743     11-20-1963  6-21
1752     1-27-1964   29-15
1756     2-24-1964   39-42 –
                     39-45
1168     3-8-1964    12-222
1760     4-6-1964    29-5
1763     4-20-1964   12-57
1766     5-4-1964    46-19.1,
                     46-20
1771     - -         46-73
                     46-6,
1778     6-29-1964   46-7,
                     46-50 –
                     46-53
1788     7-27-1964   2-17,
                     2-18
                     12-171 –
1792     8-17-1964   12-174,
                     12-179
1794     8-17-1964   Repealed
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1795     8-17-1964   28-149
1798     8-24-1964   11-10 –
                     11-12
1799     8-24-1964   42-8
1802     9-14-1964   18-22
1805     9-30-1964   28-65
1813     12-21-1964  28-152
1815     1-11-1965   46-31 –
                     46-33
1819     - -         Repealed
1823     3-29-1965   29-8
1827     4-12-1965   28-158
1829     4-12-1965   46-56 –
                     46-61
1832     4-26-1965   41-1 –
                     41-5
1834     5-3-1965    8-23 –
                     8-33
1835     5-3-1965    12-82 –
                     12-90.5
                     8-4 –
1837     5-10-1965   8-8,
                     8-10 –
                     8-12
1838     5-10-1965   12-28
1839     5-10-1965   12-34
1840     5-10-1965   31-37 –
                     31-41
1841     5-10-1965   31-7 –
                     31-10
1846     9-9-1965    31-20
1848     6-28-1965   33-16
1850     6-28-1965   28-70 –
                     28-73
1851     6-28-1965   41-1 –
                     41-5
                     28-165,
1853     7-8-1965    28-168 –
                     28-173
1859     7-29-1965   28-68
                     35-6 –
1860     8-16-1965   35-20,
                     35-22 –
                     35-45
1864     9-9-1965    31-1 –
                     31-3
1865     9-9-1965    42-59
1866     9-9-1965    6-6
1870     10-4-1965   11-8
1871     10-18-1965  31-7 –
                     31-9
1872     10-18-1965  12-16
1874     10-18-1965  2-4 –
                     2-10
1876     11-18-1965  12-46 –
                     12-53
1877     11-18-1965  46-51 –
                     46-53
1881     12-13-1965  12-83
1884     12-27-1965  12-226
1889     3-21-1966   35-31
                     12-187 –
1892     3-21-1966   12-189,
                     12-192,
                     12-194
                     8-45 –
1894     3-21-1966   8-48,
                     8-50 –
                     8-53
1899     4-18-1966   31-26 –
                     31-31
1915     6-27-1966   29-6
                     35-87 –
                     35-89,
1919     7-7-1966    35-91,
                     35-97,
                     35-98,
                     35-100
1920     7-7-1966    35-35
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1927     8-15-1966   42-21
1929     8-22-1966   33-15
1930     8-22-1966   12-219
1932     9-12-1966   31-48
1933     9-12-1966   33-15
1939     10-3-1966   45-12
1940     10-10-1966  28-152
1943     10-31-1966  12-83
1946     12-9-1966   35-94
1951     1-16-1967   35-88
1961     2-13-1967   8-57
1907     6-6-1967    35-89
                     12-83,
1977     6-12-1967   12-84,
                     12-86
                     35-62,
                     35-63,
                     35-66 –
                     35-68,
                     35-70 –
1981     8-4-1967    35-72,
                     35-74 –
                     35-77,
                     35-79,
                     35-81 –
                     35-83
1987     7-24-1967   12-70 –
                     12-77
1988     8-4-1967    5-6,
                     5-7
1989     8-4-1967    12-18 –
                     12-23
                     28-106 –
                     28-112,
1992     8-21-1967   28-114 –
                     28-119,
                     28-152
1994     9-5-1967    46-52
1996     9-11-1967   6-18
1997     9-11-1967   17-4
2004     10-2-1967   39-38
2005     10-13-1967  28-96
2007     10-16-1967  35-67
2008     10-30-1967  24-98 –
                     24-107
2010     11-6-1967   12-214
2012     11-6-1967   35-81
2013     11-6-1967   35-6
2016     11-27-1967  29-14
2020     12-11-1967  31-21
2022     12-18-1967  35-67
2024     1-22-1968   31-43
2026     1-22-1968   12-43 –
                     12-45
                     39-2 –
                     39-10,
2027     2-5-1968    39-12 –
                     39-21,
                     39-23 –
                     39-31
                     5-1,
                     5-2,
2031     2-5-1968    5-9 –
                     5-46,
                     5-50 –
                     5-52
2032     2-12-1968   46-62
2038     3-13-1968   28-103
2041     3-18-1968   6-11
                     50-1 –
                     50-3,
                     50-4 –
                     50-8,
                     50-8.1,
                     50-9 –
                     50-13,
                     50-15 –
                     50-24,
                     50-25 –
                     50-27,
                     50-28 –
                     50-32,
                     50-33 –
                     50-36,
2046     4-11-1968   50-37 –
                     50-40,
                     50-41 –
                     50-88,
                     50-90,
                     50-90.1,
                     50-91 –
                     50-94,
                     50-95 –
                     50-131,
                     50-132 –
                     50-142,
                     50-143 –
                     50-151,
                     50-152 –
                     50-159,
                     50-160
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2048     4-22-1968   42-25
2049     4-22-1968   28-148
2050     4-29-1968   46-63
2051     4-29-1968   12-148
2055     6-3-1968    42-2.1
2057     6-3-1968    8-34 –
                     8-44
2058     6-10-1968   9-15.1
2063     7-1-1968    50-94
2064     7-1-1968    2-37
2067     7-8-1968    12-147
2069     7-22-1968   31-45.3
2074     8-19-1968   2-39 –
                     2-41
                     35-63,
                     35-66,
2075     8-26-1968   35-71,
                     35-72,
                     35-75
2078     9-5-1968    50-46 –
                     50-49
2088     10-21-1968  42-16
2089     10-21-1968  35-87
                     5-47,
2093     11-11-1968  5-50 –
                     5-62
                     28-1,
                     28-2.1,
                     28-7,
                     28-80,
                     28-81,
2095     11-11-1968  28-106 –
                     28-112,
                     28-114 –
                     28-120,
                     28-122,
                     28-153,
                     42-2
2109     2-3-1969    28-195 –
                     28-204
                     35-23,
2314     2-24-1969   35-24,
                     35-43
1215     2-26-1969   49-28 –
                     49-34
1220     2-26-1969   49-30
2112     2-4-1969    7-2
2115     7-14-1969   49-27
2116     7-14-1969   29-2
2118     3-10-1969   28-149
2123     4-14-1969   28-1,
                     28-2.1
2128     5-19-1969   12-139,
                     12-141
2129     5-19-1969   28-33 –
                     28-35
2133     6-23-1969   35-24
2134     6-23-1969   35-16.1
2140     7-7-1969    50-8
2141     7-14-1969   45-1
2142     7-14-1969   12-144
2143     7-14-1969   49-2 –
                     49-26
2144     7-14-1969   28-65.1
                     29-3,
                     29-5 –
                     29-7,
2145     7-14-1969   29-11,
                     29-13,
                     29-14,
                     29-16
2149     8-18-1969   35-10
2161     9-29-1969   31-20
2163     9-29-1969   39-41.1 –
                     39-41.3
2165     9-29-1969   5-1,
                     5-44 – 5-46
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2166     10-13-1969  35-72
2172     12-6-1969   28-125
2174     12-6-1969   31-45
2176     12-8-1969   31-43.1
                     35-72,
2185     12-22-1969  35-75,
                     35-81
2187     12-29-1969  35-68
2191     1-26-       35-81
2201     3-10-1970   35-81
                     35-6,
                     35-22,
                     35-25,
2206     4-13-1970   35-28,
                     35-29,
                     35-33,
                     35-35
2207     4-13-1970   35-72.1
2214     5-11-1970   14-5 –
                     14-13
                     28-1,
2215     5-18-1970   28-90,
                     28-94
2217     6-1-1970    9-12.1
2221     6-22-1970   39-26
2228     8-17-1970   35-68
2231     10-1-1971   6-11
2334     10-26-1970  12-66
                     28-30,
                     28-125,
                     28-133,
                     28-142,
                     28-142.1,
2237     11-16-1970  28-144,
                     28-174,
                     28-175,
                     28-177,
                     28-179 –
                     28-183
2241     12-7-1970   18-23
                     29-5,
2245     1-18-1971   29-7,
                     29-8
2247     2-15-1971   50-8.2
2249     3-15-1971   12-34
2251     3-15-1971   12-214
2252     3-15-1971   50-95
                     35-63,
                     35-66,
2261     4-19-1971   35-70 –
                     35-72,
                     35-76
2263     5-10-1971   35-76
2272     6-21-1971   50-142.1 –
                     50-142.4
2275     6-21-1971   28-152
2277     8-9-1971    35-6,
                     35-25
2381     9-13-1971   6-11
2283     9-20-1971   2-42
2284     9-20-1971   50-94
2287     10-25-1971  12-211,
                     12-227
2292     11-8-1971   28-98.1
2302     12-20-1971  12-219
2303     12-27-1971  28-98
2305     1-10-1972   29-7
2308     12-27-1971  28-98.1
2308     1-17-1972   28-98
2310     1-17-1972   50-138,
                     50-139
                     35-6,
                     35-15,
2314     3-13-1972   35-31,
                     35-31.1,
                     35-32,
                     35-32.1
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     35-87,
                     35-88,
                     35-88.1,
2315     3-13-1972   35-91,
                     35-94,
                     35-98,
                     35-100
2316     3-13-1972   35-75,
                     35-81
2319     3-13-1972   31-6
2320     3-27-1972   28-98
2321     3-27-1972   2-11 –
                     2-15
2322     4-10-1972   35-15
2328     5-8-1972    28-65.1
2335     5-18-1972   7-1
2336     5-18-1972   12-192
2337     5-18-1972   12-221
2338     5-18-1972   12-53.1
2344     6-28-1972   50-42,
                     50-45
2352     8-7-1972    28-125
2353     8-14-1972   50-42,
                     50-45
2354     8-21-1972   35-6
2355     8-21-1972   18-23
2360     8-28-1972   19-1
2364     10-9-1972   31-45.4
2368     11-27-1972  35-67
                     35-6,
2370     12-11-1972  35-23,
                     35-31,
                     35-35
2375     10-18-1972  35-6,
                     35-23
2376     1-15-1973   28-70 –
                     28-73
2379     1-29-1973   35-25
2383     3-19-1973   35-67
2385     3-19-1973   17-4
2386     3-26-1973   35-68
2397     6-25-1973   9-12
                     50-41,
2399     7-16-1973   50-42,
                     50-45
2401     8-20-1973   11-8
2402     8-20-1973   24-1
2403     8-20-1973   35-6,
                     35-23
2407     10-15-1973  28-166.1
2412     11-5-1973   50-8.3,
                     50-9
2420     12-27-1973  28-205 –
                     28-209
2423     1-21-1974   28-152
2425     2-18-1974   38-1 –
                     38-3
                     15-1 –
                     15-14,
                     15-16 –
2428     2-18-1974   15-26,
                     15-33,
                     15-35 –
                     15-43
2431     2-25-1994   2-39,
                     2-41
2432     3-11-1974   35-6,
                     35-23
2435     4-1-1974    15-13
2441     6-7-1974    12-219
2142     11-5-1973   49-1
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2444     7-1-1974    35-89,
                     35-93
2446     2-7-1974    35-22
                     35-6,
                     35-22.1,
2446     7-1-1974    35-24,
                     35-24.1,
                     35-31
2450     5-29-1974   42-2.6,
                     42-2.7
2450     7-29-1974   42-2.2 –
                     42-2.5
2451     8-12-1974   31-10
2452     8-12-1974   33-16.1
2453     8-19-1974   35-6,
                     35-23
2456     10-7-1974   50-142.4
                     35-6,
2457     10-7-1974   35-23,
                     35-25,
                     35-41
2458     10-14-1974  50-8.3,
                     50-8.4
2459     10-23-1974  11-1
2461     10-23-1974  26-4
2462     10-23-1974  16-1,
                     26-2
2464     11-6-1974   35-87,
                     35-88
                     17-3,
2469     11-25-1974  17-4,
                     17-7
2473     12-30-1974  35-6,
                     35-23
2476     2-17-1975   35-24
2481     3-7-1975    Repealed
2483     4-7-1975    46-51 –
                     46-53
                     46-56 –
                     46-58,
2484     4-7-1975    46-63 –
                     46-65,
                     46-68,
                     46-73
2485     4-7-1975    46-51 –
                     46-53
                     46-56 –
                     46-58,
2486     4-7-1975    46-58.2,
                     46-62,
                     46-74
2493     5-12-1975   16-1,
                     26-2
2494     5-12-1975   4-1 –
                     4-42
                     35-6,
                     35-8 –
                     35-10,
                     35-12,
                     35-15,
                     35-17,
2496     5-19-1975   35-19.1,
                     35-21,
                     35-24.1,
                     35-25,
                     35-28,
                     35-29,
                     35-31,
                     35-35
2497     5-19-1975   26-4
2499     5-27-1975   3-17 –
                     3-21
2501     6-2-1975    4-8
                     50-8,
2503     6-9-1975    50-129 –
                     50-131.1
2504     6-23-1975   50-142.5 –
                     50-142.15
                     31-32,
2505     7-28-1975   31-33,
                     31-33.1 –
                     31-33.7
2506     7-28-1975   31-50 –
                     31-53
2507     7-28-1975   7-1.1
2508     7-28-1975   7-7,
                     7-9
                     35-85,
2509     8-28-1975   35-87,
                     35-91
2513     9-22-1975   7-1
2515     9-29-1975   35-101 –
                     35-107
2516     10-6-1975   15-5,
                     15-13
2519     10-13-1975  35-6
2520     10-13-1975  35-68
2521     10-13-1975  18-3
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2522     10-13-1975  7-9
2525     10-27-1975  35-38
2526     10-27-1975  18-6
2526     10-11-1976  Repealed
                     35-102 –
2527     10-27-1975  35-104,
                     35-107
2530     11-5-1975   35-87,
                     35-88
                     5-1,
                     5-4,
                     5-6,
2537     12-22-1975  5-11,
                     5-14,
                     5-19,
                     5-29,
                     5-37
                     18-5,
2538     12-22-1975  18-5.1 –
                     18-5.4
                     18-11,
2542     1-26-1976   18-11.1 –
                     18-11.22
2543     2-2-1976    35-6,
                     35-23
2544     2-23-1976   2-28
2546     2-23-1976   2-90 –
                     2-98
2547     2-23-1976   2-75 –
                     2-80
2548     2-23-1976   2-85 –
                     2-89
2549     3-8-1976    2-39 –
                     2-41
2550     3-22-1976   28-98.2
2552     4-12-1976   46-50 –
                     46-52
                     18-18 –
2553     4-12-1976   18-21,
                     18-21.1 –
                     18-21.13
2554     4-12-1976   2-100 –
                     2-105
2555     4-26-1976   50-151
2556     5-10-1976   28-2.1
2557     5-10-1976   46-52
                     35-6,
                     35-8,
                     35-10,
                     35-13,
                     35-15,
2558     6-14-1976   35-17,
                     35-22 –
                     35-24,
                     35-31.1,
                     35-32.1,
                     35-33
2561     2-26-1976   35-68
2565     10-11-1976  Repealed
                     46-54,
                     46-58,
2566     10-11-1976  46-58.1,
                     46-58.3,
                     46-65
2567     10-11-1976  46-52
                     29-2,
                     29-7 –
2568     11-8-1976   29-9,
                     29-12,
                     29-14,
                     29-15
2569     11-8-1976   2-110 –
                     2-114
2573     12-13-1976  28-98,
                     28-98.1
2574     1-10-1977   18-12
2575     1-10-1977   11-1
2579     1-10-1977   46-50
2580     1-10-1977   2-120 –
                     2-123
2581     1-10-1977   2-125 –
                     2-130
2582     1-17-1977   28-85.1
                     35-6,
                     35-15,
                     35-17,
                     35-23,
                     35-35,
                     35-62,
                     35-66,
2583     1-17-1977   35-67,
                     35-71,
                     35-75 –
                     35-77,
                     35-79,
                     35-81,
                     35-87 –
                     35-89,
                     35-93
2585     1-24-1977   2-1 –
                     2-3
2586     1-24-1977   9-9
2587     1-24-1977   28-103
2588     2-28-1977   24-1
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2593     3-14-1977   31-43.2
2594     3-28-1977   31-54
2595     4-11-1977   15-36
2596     4-11-1977   35-24
                     50-161 –
2599     4-25-1977   50-164,
                     50-167,
                     50-169
2600     4-25-1977   2-5
2601     4-25-1977   31-55
                     2-19,
                     2-19.1,
2602     4-25-1977   2-19.2,
                     2-20 –
                     2-24
2604     5-27-1977   35-81
                     42-25,
2607     6-27-1977   42-25.1 –
                     42-25.5
2608     7-25-1977   50-155
2611     9-12-1977   28-65.1
2615     11-27-1977  11-1
                     50-99,
2616     11-28-1977  50-149 –
                     50-153
2621     1-23-1978   18-4.1 –
                     18-4.7
                     30-10 –
                     30-30,
                     30-30.1,
2624-B   4-10-1978   30-31,
                     30-32,
                     30-34 –
                     30-36
2625     4-10-1978   1-7
2626     4-10-1978   31-33.8
                     35-15,
                     35-23,
2628     4-10-1978   35-25,
                     35-35,
                     35-81
2629     4-24-1978   16-1
2630     4-24-1978   9-14.1 –
                     9-14.3
2631     5-8-1978    1-156 –
                     1-159
2632     5-8-1978    1-152 –
                     1-155
2633     5-8-1978    1-150,
                     1-151
2634     5-8-1978    1-148,
                     1-149
2635     5-8-1978    1-145 –
                     1-147
2636     5-8-1978    1-142 –
                     1-144
2637     5-8-1978    1-131 –
                     1-139
                     31-2,
                     31-4,
                     31-12,
                     31-13,
2641     5-22-1978   31-16,
                     31-17,
                     31-46,
                     31-58,
                     31-59
2642     5-22-1978   6-11
2644     5-22-1978   31-60,
                     31-61
2645     5-22-1978   28-94
2646     6-12-1978   2-120 –
                     2-123
2647     6-26-1978   12-65
2648     6-26-1978   35-6
2649     7-24-1978   35-8
2653     7-24-1978   2-131
2654     7-24-1978   35-16.2
2655     8-14-1978   12-101 –
                     12-113
2656     8-14-1978   26-1
2657     8-14-1978   31-62
2658     8-14-1978   31-63
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2662     9-25-1978   42-21
2664     9-25-1978   1-138
2665     10-9-1978   50-157
2666     10-9-1978   28-93
2667     10-9-1978   12-78 –
                     12-81
2669     10-23-1978  12-219
2670     10-23-1978  31-12
2671     10-23-1978  28-30
                     30-10,
2672     10-23-1978  30-27,
                     30-29,
                     30-30
2673     10-23-1978  11-1
2675     10-23-1978  28-93.3
2676     10-23-1978  12-16.1
2677     11-13-1978  31-27.1
2686     1-8-1979    1-8,
                     1-9
2687     1-8-1979    19-1
2690     2-12-1979   50-90.1
2691     2-12-1979   50-80,
                     50-87
                     28-2.1,
                     28-2.2,
2692     2-12-1979   28-27,
                     28-92,
                     28-93,
                     28-106
                     6-2,
                     6-3,
2694     2-12-1979   6-5,
                     6-5.1,
                     6-7
2695     2-18-1979   1-131
2698     2-26-1979   31-33.3
                     35-6,
                     35-15,
                     35-17,
                     35-19,
                     35-23,
                     35-35,
                     35-70,
                     35-72,
                     35-75,
2699     2-26-1979   35-79,
                     35-81,
                     35-85,
                     35-87,
                     35-88,
                     35-88.1,
                     35-89,
                     35-93,
                     35-94,
                     35-97,
                     35-100
2702     3-26-1979   42-5,
                     42-47
2703     4-2-1979    1-160,
                     1-161
2704     4-2-1979    35-108,
                     35-109
2707     4-23-1979   2-141 –
                     2-152
                     12-180 –
2710     6-11-1979   12-185,
                     12-185.1
                     8-4,
2711     6-11-1979   8-5,
                     8-9,
                     8-12
2713     6-25-1979   50-45,
                     50-49
2715     6-25-1979   31-27.1
2716     7-9-1979    18-11.12,
                     18-11.21
                     42-2.2,
2717     7-9-1979    42-2.4,
                     42-2.5
2718     7-9-1979    31-12.1
2719     7-9-1979    31-9.3
2724     7-23-1979   28-1.1
2725     7-23-1979   28-1.1
                     50-142.5 –
2726     7-23-1979   50-142.7,
                     50-142.13,
                     50-142.13.1
2727     7-23-1979   50-164
2729     8-13-1979   Repealed
2733     8-13-1979   28-94.1
2739     9-24-1979   35-81
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2740     10-22-1979  12-107
                     31-70 –
2741     10-22-1979  31-79,
                     31-88,
                     Ch. 31 Appendix
2747     11-19-1979  26-2,
                     26-4
2750     11-19-1979  24-1
2751     12-10-1979  8-4,
                     8-5
2755     1-14-1980   28-7.1
2759     2-25-1980   5-1
2760     2-25-1980   18-5,
                     18-5.1
2761     2-25-1980   18-11.3
                     46-51,
                     46-52,
2767     5-6-1980    46-56,
                     46-57,
                     46-57.1,
                     46-58
369      5-7-1980    12-229
2768     5-12-1980   12-219
                     50-4,
2770     6-9-1980    50-12,
                     50-28.1 –
                     50-28.5
2771     6-9-1980    35-16.3
2772     6-9-1980    31-33.3.1
2775     1-28-1980   35-81
2829     6-9-1980    50-32.1
2779     8-25-1980   39-12,
                     39-18
2780     10-13-1980  6-6
2781     10-13-1980  46-19.1
                     33-8,
                     33-9,
                     33-12,
2783     10-27-1980  33-13,
                     33-15,
                     33-16,
                     33-16.1
2784     12-8-1980   33-33
2786     12-8-1980   26-2,
                     26-4
2787     12-22-1980  50-170 –
                     50-181
2788     1-26-1981   18-24 –
                     18-26
2789     2-23-1981   50-171,
                     50-177
2791     4-13-1981   24-1
2792     4-27-1981   2-126
                     50-18,
2795     5-26-1981   50-22,
                     50-100,
                     50-101
2796     5-26-1981   5-56
2799     8-10-1981   Repealed
2800     8-10-1981   35-15
-        8-24-1981   2-3.4
2801     8-24-1981   35-68
2802     8-24-1981   2-3.2,
                     2-3.3
2810     10-12-1981  28-1.1
2811     10-26-1981  35-8
2812     10-21-1981  35-110
2813     10-26-1981  33-8.1
2814     10-26-1981  50-142.3
2817     12-7-1981   46-7,
                     46-17
2822     2-8-1982    31-20.1
2823     2-8-1982    31-59
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2824     2-8-1982    11-1
2825     2-8-1982    9-12.2
2827     3-8-1982    28-30.1,
                     28-30.2
2828     3-22-1982   26-4
                     50-1,
                     50-20.1,
                     50-20.2,
                     50-24.1,
                     50-24.2,
                     50-27.1,
2829     3-22-1982   50-27.2,
                     50-28.6,
                     50-34,
                     50-36.1,
                     50-36.2,
                     50-103 –
                     50-107
2830     4-26-1982   19-1
                     12-24 –
2831     4-26-1982   12-29,
                     12-31 –
                     12-36
                     50-1,
                     50-40.1,
2832     5-10-1982   50-45 –
                     50-47,
                     50-49
2833     5-10-1982   18-5.3
2834     5-24-1982   12-221
2837     6-14-1982   12-172
2841     6-28-1982   28-115.1,
                     28-115.2
2842     7-26-1982   35-41
2843     7-26-1982   33-34
2844     7-26-1982   33-12
                     50-1,
                     50-74,
                     50-81,
                     50-94,
2845     7-26-1982   50-96,
                     50-101,
                     50-133,
                     50-140,
                     50-141,
                     50-167
                     50-149,
2846     7-26-1982   50-151,
                     50-151.1,
                     50-160
2848     8-16-1982   31-33.4
2849     8-30-1982   31-14
2850     8-30-1982   26-2,
                     26-4
2851     9-13-1982   36-1
2852     9-13-1982   31-11
                     12-171,
                     12-180 –
2853     9-27-1982   12-182,
                     12-182.1,
                     12-183
2854     9-27-1982   28-31 –
                     28-35
2855     10-11-1982  2-80.1
2856     10-11-1982  1-140,
                     1-141
2857     10-25-1982  50-26
2858     10-25-1982  18-27 –
                     18-29
2862     12-8-1982   31-55
                     31-37,
2864     12-20-1982  31-38,
                     31-40,
                     31-40.1
2865     1-10-1983   28-98
2866     1-24-1983   45-11.1 –
                     45-11.4
2867     2-14-1983   12-114 –
                     12-124
2868     2-14-1983   18-5.3
2869     2-28-1983   28-66,
                     28-68
2871     3-14-1983   28-202
                     50-44.1,
2872     3-14-1983   50-45,
                     50-47,
                     50-161
2876     5-23-1983   28-51,
                     28-52
2879     6-27-1983   12-203
2880     7-11-1983   50-157
2881     7-11-1983   50-99
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2883     8-8-1983    18-21.5
2884     8-8-1983    30-2.1
2885     9-12-1983   6-7,
                     6-11
2886     9-26-1983   26-1.1
2887     12-12-1983  50-99
2888     12-12-1983  50-155
2891     1-9-1984    35-10
2892     2-13-1984   35-68,
                     35-69
2893     2-13-1984   35-15
2895     2-27-1984   35-21
2896     3-12-1984   35-67
2897     3-12-1984   35-17
2898     3-21-1984   TSO I
                     15-1 –
                     15-14,
                     15-16 –
2899     3-21-1984   15-20,
                     15-25,
                     15-26,
                     15-33,
                     15-34
2900     3-26-1984   35-73
2901     4-9-1984    50-105
                     2-26,
2902     4-9-1984    2-26.1 –
                     2-26.4
2903     4-9-1984    35-19
2904     4-9-1984    35-26
2905     4-9-1984    35-25
2909     4-23-1984   28-86
                     50-1,
2910     4-23-1984   50-21,
                     50-22
                     46-51,
2915     7-9-1984    46-52,
                     46-57.1
2916     7-23-1984   30-10
2917     8-13-1984   35-16.2.1
2924     9-24-1984   35-85
2927     11-12-1984  50-56,
                     50-62
                     35-23,
                     35-72,
                     35-72.1,
2929     12-19-1984  35-73,
                     35-81,
                     35-87 –
                     35-89
2930     1-15-1985   50-51,
                     50-55
2931     1-15-1985   50-105
2931     1-28-1985   35-51
2932     1-28-1985   35-47 –
                     35-50
2933     1-28-1985   35-15
2934     1-28-1985   9-23 –
                     9-30
2935     1-28-1985   6-7,
                     6-11
                     12-24,
2936     1-28-1985   12-29,
                     12-32,
                     12-35
2937     2-1-1985    Repealed
2938     1-28-1985   28-152
                     28-30.3,
2939     2-11-1985   28-31 –
                     28-38
2940     2-11-1985   18-22,
                     18-23
2941     2-11-1985   26-1
2942     2-11-1985   35-16.2.1
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2943     2-11-1985   31-12
2944     2-25-1985   46-57.2
                     12-53.1,
                     12-54 –
                     12-59,
                     12-61,
                     12-62,
2945     3-11-1985   12-62.1 –
                     12-62.4,
                     12-64 –
                     12-66,
                     12-67.1,
                     12-67.2,
                     12-69.1
2948     4-22-1985   8-53
2949     5-13-1985   19-1
2950     5-13-1985   11-1
2952     5-28-1985   35-68
2953     5-28-1985   2-143
2954     5-28-1985   15-36,
                     15-42
2956     6-10-1985   18-13 –
                     18-15
2957     6-24-1985   24-1
                     35-23,
2959     6-24-1985   35-26,
                     35-88
2960     6-24-1985   35-8
2961     6-24-1985   12-16
2964     7-22-1985   18-21.5
2966     8-26-1985   35-16.3
2967     8-26-1985   35-37
2968     9-9-1985    50-45
2969     9-9-1985    18-5.4
                     50-1,
                     50-33,
2972     9-23-1985   50-47,
                     50-51,
                     50-139
2973     10-28-1985  35-16.2
2977     1-27-1986   26-1
2979     2-10-1986   12-235
                     31-27.2,
2981     2-24-1986   31-27.3,
                     31-27.3.1
2982     3-10-1986   31-27,
                     31-27.1
2983     3-24-1986   18-30 –
                     18-34
2984     3-24-1986   42-71
                     46-50 –
                     46-52,
                     46-52.1,
                     46-53 –
                     46-57,
                     46-57.1,
2985     3-24-1986   46-58,
                     46-58.1,
                     46-58.3,
                     46-59 –
                     46-70,
                     46-73,
                     46-74
2986     4-14-1986   Repealed
                     39-43,
                     39-43.1,
2989     4-28-1986   39-43.2,
                     39-44,
                     39-46
2992     5-12-1986   12-172
2994     5-27-1986   46-57
2995     6-9-1986    30-32
2997     6-23-1986   30-2.1
2999     7-14-1986   33-15.1
3002     7-28-1986   35-68
                     46-17,
3003     7-28-1986   46-48 –
                     46-50,
                     46-52
3005     7-28-1986   33-15.1
3006     7-28-1986   28-21
3008     8-25-1986   31-59
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     18-4.1 –
3010     10-13-1986  18-4.4,
                     18-4.7,
                     18-4.8
3011     10-13-1986  31-12
3012     10-13-1986  35-16.2
                     50-1,
3015     11-10-1986  50-29,
                     50-139
3016     11-10-1986  28-65
3018     11-24-1986  35-69
3019     11-24-1986  50-94.1
3020     12-8-1986   26-1
3021     12-8-1986   12-125 –
                     12-131
3022     12-8-1986   35-88
                     35-23.1,
3023     12-17-1986  35-88,
                     35-90
3024     12-17-1986  35-35
3026     2-9-1987    36-1
3027     2-9-1987    16-1
3028     3-9-1987    39-45
3029     3-9-1987    35-23.2 –
                     35-23.5
3031     3-23-1987   46-57
3032     3-23-1987   18-4.1
3033     4-27-1987   36-1
3034     5-11-1987   22-1
3035     5-11-1987   35-102
3036     5-26-1987   50-22
                     28-94,
3037     6-8-1987    28-94.1,
                     28-96
3038     6-8-1987    35-35
3039     6-8-1987    50-41,
                     50-42
3040     7-27-1987   9-14.4 –
                     9-14.12
3042     8-24-1987   42-25.6
                     50-8.3,
3043     8-24-1987   50-151.1,
                     50-153,
                     50-159
3044     8-24-1987   26-2
3045     9-28-1987   26-2
3046     9-28-1987   45-1 –
                     45-3
3047     10-12-1987  50-142.1,
                     50-142.3
                     50-4,
                     50-26,
3048     10-12-1987  50-34,
                     50-88.1 –
                     50-88.3
3053     4-11-1988   50-1,
                     50-47
3054     4-25-1988   35-68
3055     4-25-1988   18-4.1,
                     18-4.3
3056     5-9-1988    19-1
3057     6-13-1988   37-2.1 –
                     37-2.3
3058     6-27-1988   28-93.1,
                     28-93.2
3059     6-27-1988   35-35
3062     7-11-1988   50-3.1,
                     50-3.2
                     50-142.6,
3063     7-11-1988   50-142.10,
                     50-142.12
3064     7-11-1988   31-5
3065     7-11-1988   12-62
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3068     7-25-1988   26-1
3070     9-12-1988   18-23
3071     9-12-1988   26-1 –
                     26-5
3072     9-15-1988   26-1
3073     9-26-1988   12-186,
                     12-187
3075     10-10-1988  35-18.1
3077     10-10-1988  50-142.3
3078     10-10-1988  42-25.6
3079     10-24-1988  26-4
                     50-8.3,
3080     10-24-1988  50-151.1,
                     50-153,
                     50-159
3083     11-28-1988  35-18.1
3084     1-9-1989    35-77
                     12-203 –
                     12-206,
                     12-215,
3085     1-9-1989    12-221,
                     12-225,
                     12-228 –
                     12-231
                     35-6,
3088     2-13-1989   35-81,
                     35-88
3089     1-23-1989   2-126
3090     2-13-1989   36-1
3091     2-13-1989   22-1
3092     2-13-1989   2-26.1,
                     2-26.2
3093     2-27-1989   11-1
3094     3-13-1989   50-155.1
3095     3-13-1989   2-28.1
3097     4-24-1989   31-27.3.1
3098     5-8-1989    18-5.1
3100     6-26-1989   31-33.3,
                     31-33.3.1
3101     7-10-1989   35-35
3103     7-24-1989   50-159.1
3104     7-24-1989   50-151.2
3106     7-24-1989   19-11.1
3107     8-14-1989   31-33.7
3108     8-14-1989   12-208
3109     8-14-1989   28-110.1
3110     8-14-1989   24-2,
                     24-3
3112     8-28-1989   1-7.1
3113     8-28-1989   11-2
3114     8-28-1989   39-44
3116     10-9-1989   31-12
                     18-4.1,
3118     11-13-1989  18-4.3,
                     18-4.7
3120     11-13-1989  28-32
3124     1-8-1990    46-52,
                     46-57
3125     2-12-1990   Repealed
                     29-2,
                     29-3,
                     29-5,
3126     2-12-1990   29-7 –
                     29-9,
                     29-14,
                     29-15,
                     29-17
3127     2-26-1990   18-14
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3128     2-26-1990   35-68
3130     3-26-1990   28-93
                     2-19.1,
3131     4-9-1990    2-19.2,
                     2-20,
                     2-23.1
3133     4-23-1990   35-35
3134     4-23-1990   35-81
                     35-48,
3135     4-23-1990   35-51 –
                     35-53
3137     5-29-1990   30-32
3138     6-25-1990   30-30.3 –
                     30-30.6
3139     7-9-1990    Repealed
3141     9-10-1990   28-28.5
3142     9-10-1990   Vetoed by Mayor on 9-20-1990
3144     9-10-1990   2-170 –
                     2-172
3145     9-10-1990   2-175 –
                     2-177
3147     9-24-1990   35-16.1.1
3150     10-22-1990  6-2.1,
                     6-2.2
3151     11-12-1990  31-9.3,
                     31-10
3153     1-14-1991   31-58,
                     31-58.2
3154     1-14-1991   38-1,
                     38-2
3155     1-14-1991   12-219,
                     12-236
3157     2-11-1991   30-12
3158     2-11-1991   39-41.1
3159     2-25-1991   50-47
3160     2-25-1991   50-169
3161     3-25-1992   12-176
3165     4-22-1991   31-12
3166     6-16-1991   2-3.5
3167     5-28-1991   18-40
3168     5-28-1992   46-57.3
3169     5-28-1992   29-5
3170     5-28-1991   6-13
3172     5-28-1991   35-17
3173     6-10-1991   6-5,
                     6-5.2
3174     6-10-1991   29-4
3176     8-10-1991   14-14 –
                     14-28
                     18-21.1,
3178     7-8-1991    18-21.5 –
                     18-21.7
3179     7-22-1991   31-72
                     15-36,
3180     8-26-1991   15-37,
                     15-42
3184     10-28-1991  35-68
3185     11-11-1991  12-171
3186     11-11-1991  30-37 –
                     30-40
3187     11-11-1991  12-46.1
3192     1-13-1992   31-12
3193     1-27-1992   42-47.1
3194     1-27-1992   39-2
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3195     2-24-1992   2-170 –
                     2-174
3196     2-24-1992   18-4.1
3198     3-9-1993    39-41.1
                     28-38,
3199     3-23-1992   28-115.1,
                     28-152
3200     4-27-1992   8-39
                     35-15,
3201     5-11-1992   35-17,
                     35-19
3204     6-8-1992    39-20.1
                     30-10 –
                     30-13,
                     30-15,
                     30-18,
3206     6-8-1992    30-19,
                     30-26,
                     30-27,
                     30-29,
                     30-30
3207     6-8-1992    28-30,
                     28-30.2
3208     6-22-1992   18-4.1
3210     7-13-1992   22-1
3211     8-16-1992   36-1
3212     7-13-1992   11-1
3213     7-13-1992   16-1
3214     7-13-1992   24-1
3215     9-14-1992   18-4.1.1
3216     9-23-1992   31-20.2
3217     9-23-1992   28-85.1
                     46-50,
3218     10-12-1992  46-52.2,
                     46-52.3,
                     46-53
3221     11-9-1992   28-66
3222     11-9-1992   18-23
3223     12-14-1992  35-35
3224     12-14-1992  16-1,
                     16-1.1
3225     12-14-1992  36-1,
                     36-1.1
3226     12-14-1992  11-1,
                     11-1.1
3227     12-14-1992  22-1,
                     22-1.1
3229     2-22-1993   35-88.A.1 –
                     35-88.A.3
3230     3-8-1993    31-64
-        4-17-1993   31-9.3
                     46-50,
3232     4-26-1993   46-52.2,
                     46-52.3
3232     5-10-1993   46-53
3235     6-28-1993   12-132 –
                     12-138
3236     6-28-1993   30-2.1
3237     7-12-1993   50-47,
                     50-51
3238     7-12-1993   35-31
3239     7-12-1993   18-26.1 –
                     18-26.6
3240     7-26-1993   18-4.1,
                     18-4.7
3241     7-26-1993   26-1
3242     8-9-1993    46-52
3243     8-9-1993    35-31
3246     8-23-1993   1-7.2
3247     8-23-1993   Repealing
                     Ch. 20
3248     9-13-1993   28-93.1
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3249     9-27-1993   31-3.1
3250     9-27-1993   9-14.4,
                     9-14.4.1
3251     9-27-1993   Repealing
                     Ch. 21
3252     9-27-1993   9-5.1
                     15-44,
3253     9-27-1993   15-46,
                     15-47,
                     15-63
3254     9-27-1993   50-142.7
3255     10-11-1993  35-69
3257     11-22-1993  18-4.7
3262     12-13-1993  18-23
                     12-54,
3265     1-10-1994   12-54.1,
                     12-54.2
3266     1-24-1994   50-99
3267     1-24-1994   Repealed
                     46-84 –
3268     1-24-1994   46-86,
                     46-94 –
                     46-118
3269     1-24-1994   35-68
3270     3-14-1994   35-16.2
3271     4-17-1994   24-1
                     31-5.1 –
3272     3-14-1994   31-5.3,
                     31-5.5,
                     31-9.3
3273     4-11-1994   35-35
3274     4-25-1994   50-134
3275     4-25-1994   50-1
3276     6-13-1994   46-52.2
3277     6-13-1994   12-219
3279     6-13-1994   35-88.A.1 –
                     35-88.A.3
                     35-17,
                     35-19,
3280     7-25-1994   35-23,
                     35-81,
                     35-88
3281     10-24-1994  50-142.12
3282     10-24-1994  35-17
                     1-2,
                     1-7,
3285     11-28-1994  1-7.1,
                     1-8 –
                     1-15
3286     12-12-1994  50-161,
                     50-163
3287     12-12-1994  18-27.1
3289     1-9-1995    50-161
3290     1-9-1995    Repealing 31-27.1.2
3291     2-26-1995   31-41.1,
                     31-41.2
3292     2-13-1995   Repealed
3294     4-10-1995   28-28.7
3295     4-10-1995   28-28.6
3296     5-8-1995    50-157
                     35-6,
3297     5-22-1995   35-26.1,
                     35-46.1 –
                     35-46.3
3298     5-22-1995   35-16.2
3299     5-22-1995   39-43.1.A
3301     6-12-1995   50-21
3302     7-30-1995   29-5
3303     7-24-1995   35-15
3304     7-24-1995   35-35
3305     8-14-1995   50-142.7
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3309     9-25-1995   12-258 –
                     12-262
3313     11-13-1995  46-48 –
                     46-50
3314     11-27-1995  Repealed
3317     12-20-1995  35-23
3318     1-8-1996    35-34.1
3320     1-8-1996    18-4.1
3321     1-8-1996    35-23
3323     2-12-1996   42-47
3324     2-12-1996   18-4.1
3325     2-12-1996   35-68
                     35-17,
3326     3-11-1996   35-19,
                     35-23
3327     4-8-1996    39-44 –
                     39-46
3329     4-22-1996   50-47
3330     5-13-1996   24-1
3331     5-13-1996   18-21.5
3333     7-8-1996    9-1
3334     9-9-1996    50-89
3335     9-23-1996   Repealed
3338     9-23-1996   31-48.1
3341     10-14-1996  31-58.3
                     12-67.3,
3342     10-14-1996  12-67.3.1 –
                     12-67.3.14
3344     - -         Prior Adopting Ordinance, not codified
3346     6-9-1997    30-3
3348     7-27-1997   30-33
3349     6-23-1997   18-4.1
3351     7-14-1997   18-23
3352     8-11-1997   24-1
3353     8-25-1997   Prior Adopting Ordinance, not codified
3354     8-25-1997   Repealed
3356     11-30-1997  24-1
3357     11-10-1997  35-16.2
3359     11-24-1997  12-49.1,
                     12-49.2
3360     1-12-1998   35-23
3362     2-9-1998    2-162 –
                     2-165
3363     2-9-1998    18-4.1
3364     2-23-1998   35-16.2
3367     3-23-1998   18-4.1
3368     3-23-1998   18-4.1
3370     4-27-1998   35-8
3372     6-8-1998    35-23.3
3373     7-22-1998   35-67
3375     7-27-1998   12-49.2
3376     7-27-1998   31-19.1 –
                     31-19.6
3377     7-27-1998   18-4.1
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3378     7-27-1998   19-1
3379     7-27-1998   35-68
3380     9-13-1998   2-143
3383     9-14-1998   31-19.7
3388     11-23-1998  28-211 –
                     28-217
3389     11-23-1998  30-29
3390     12-7-1998   18-4.1
3391     12-16-1998  18-23
3392     1-11-1999   50-160
3394     2-8-1999    28-110.1
3395     2-8-1999    Repealed
3396     2-8-1999    18-4.1
3397     2-8-1999    31-62,
                     31-63
3398     2-8-1999    3-20
3399     2-8-1999    4-29,
                     4-34
3400     2-8-1999    7-9
3401     2-8-1999    12-103
3402     2-8-1999    12-119,
                     12-120
3403     2-8-1999    12-144,
                     12-145
3404     2-8-1999    12-209
3405     2-8-1999    18-4
3406     2-8-1999    18-23
3407     2-8-1999    19-102
3408     2-8-1999    26-1 –
                     26-5
3409     2-8-1999    28-38
3410     2-8-1999    28-78
3411     2-8-1999    28-152
3412     2-8-1999    28-173
3413     2-8-1999    29-5
3414     2-8-1999    39-34,
                     39-35
3415     2-8-1999    42-2.1
3416     2-8-1999    42-16
3417     2-8-1999    42-25.6
3418     2-8-1999    42-64
3419     2-8-1999    Repealed
3420     2-8-1999    Repealed
3421     2-8-1999    Repealed
                     46-51,
3422     2-8-1999    46-52,
                     46-62
3423     2-8-1999    46-63
3424     2-8-1999    Repealed
                     46-102,
3425     2-8-1999    46-110,
                     46-111
3426     2-8-1999    49-26
3427     2-8-1999    50-8.3,
                     50-12
3428     2-8-1999    50-142.15
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed     Description
                         50-151.1,
3429     2-8-1999        50-153,
                         50-159
3430     2-22-1999       12-180
3431     2-22-1999       18-3
3433     3-22-1999       TSO I
3435     5-10-1999       Repealed
3436     5-24-1999       12-263 –
                         12-271
3437     6-14-1999       42-14
3439     7-26-1999       35-50 –
                         35-52
3440     8-23-1999       18-4.1
3441     8-23-1999       Repealed
3442     10-11-1999      28-187
3443     10-11-1999      28-28,
                         28-28.1
3445     12-13-1999      1-7.3
3446     12-13-1999      24-1
3447     1-10-2000       1-7
3448     1-10-2000       TSO I
3449     1-10-2000       31-42.1
3450     2-28-2000       18-4.1
3451     3-27-2000       35-6
3452     3-27-2000       6-11
3453     4-10-2000       35-47 –
                         35-53
3454     4-10-2000       18-4.1
3455     5-22-2000       28-13
                         39-1 –
                         39-11,
                         39-11.1 –
3456     6-12-2000       39-11.4,
                         39-12 –
                         39-18,
                         39-18.1
3458     8-14-2000       12-219
3460     eff. 10-11-2000 TSO II
3461     9-11-2000       Repealed
3462     9-25-2000       35-15
3463     eff. 11-8-2000  TSO II
3464     eff. 11-26-2000 TSO II
3465     12-11-2000      50-1
3466     eff. 2-11-2001  TSO II
3467     2-26-2001       18-5.3
3468     eff. 4-15-2001  TSO II
3469     3-12-2001       2-96
3470     3-26-2001       TSO II
3471     5-14-2001       TSO II
3472     5-29-2001       31-20.3
3473     5-29-2001       12-272
3474     5-29-2001       35-23
3475     5-29-2001       12-264
                         12-172,
3476     5-29-2001       12-174,
                         12-176
3477     6-11-2001       TSO II
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3478     6-11-2001   TSO II
3479     7-23-2001   TSO II
3480     7-23-2001   TSO I
3481     10-8-2001   18-4.1
3482     10-8-2001   18-4.1
3483     10-22-2001  TSO II
3484     12-10-2001  2-26.1
-        - -2002     28-178
3485     1-28-2002   50-8.3
                     15-1,
                     15-3 –
                     15-14,
                     15-16 –
                     15-19,
                     15-22,
                     15-24 –
3486     1-28-2002   15-26,
                     15-33,
                     15-34,
                     15-36,
                     15-40,
                     15-42,
                     15-44,
                     15-46,
                     15-47
3487     2-11-2002   18-5.3
3488     2-25-2002   24-1
3489     2-25-2002   46-125 –
                     46-138
3490     3-11-2002   18-4.1
3491     3-25-2002   35-23.5
3492     4-22-2002   TSO II
3493     5-13-2002   TSO I
3494     5-13-2002   46-52.1
3495     5-28-2002   35-37
                     35-1,
                     35-15,
3496     6-10-2002   35-15.1,
                     35-81,
                     35-87,
                     35-88
3497     7-8-2002    29-2
                     35-1,
                     35-15.1,
3498     7-22-2002   35-81,
                     35-88,
                     35-87
3499     9-23-2002   28-218 –
                     28-227
3500     9-23-2002   18-21.14
3501     10-14-2002  50-161,
                     50-165.5
3502     10-14-2002  46-52.2
3503     10-28-2002  28-1.2
3504     11-11-2002  24-1,
                     24-2
3505     11-25-2002  42-25
3506     11-25-2002  33-7
3507     12-9-2002   Repealing Ord. 2793
3508     12-9-2002   28-1.1
3509     3-10-2003   46-5
3510     3-10-2003   46-50
3511     4-28-2003   37-1,
                     37-2
                     15-17,
                     15-63,
3512     4-28-2003   15-64,
                     15-64.1,
                     15-65 –
                     15-83
3513     4-28-2003   46-52.1
3514     4-28-2003   46-52.2
3515     4-28-2003   46-57.1
3516     8-25-2003   1-162,
                     1-163
3517     9-22-2003   18-4.1
3518     9-22-2003   35-24.1
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3519     9-22-2003   TSO II
3520     11-10-2003  TSO II
3521     2-23-2004   TSO II
3522     3-8-2004    18-4.1
3523     4-7-2004    TSO II
3524     5-5-2004    39-1
3525     5-5-2004    30-11
3526     5-5-2004    30-12
3527     5-5-2004    30-13
3528     5-5-2004    30-27
3529     5-5-2004    30-29
3530     5-5-2004    39-44
3531     5-5-2004    24-1
3532     5-10-2004   12-182
3533     5-10-2004   Repealing 12-184 (repealing Ord. 598 and Ord. 2710)
3534     5-10-2004   12-185.1
3535     6-9-2004    1-10
3536     6-9-2004    1-11
3537     6-9-2004    1-12
3538     6-9-2004    1-13
3539     6-9-2004    1-14
3540     6-9-2004    1-15
3541     6-9-2004    1-16
3542     6-9-2004    1-17
3543     6-9-2004    1-18
3544     6-9-2004    1-19
3545     6-9-2004    1-20
3546     6-9-2004    1-21
3547     6-9-2004    11-30
3548     6-9-2004    12-23.5
3549     6-9-2004    12-48.1
3550     6-9-2004    12-69.1
3551     6-9-2004    12-90.5
3552     6-9-2004    16-2
3553     6-9-2004    17-99
3554     6-9-2004    22-2
3555     6-9-2004    24-2
3556     6-9-2004    30-33
3557     6-9-2004    30-34
3558     6-9-2004    30-35
3559     6-9-2004    31-48.1
3560     6-9-2004    35-80
3561     6-9-2004    36-2
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3562     6-9-2004    39-11
3563     6-9-2004    39-11.1
3564     6-9-2004    39-11.2
3565     6-9-2004    39-11.3
3566     6-9-2004    Repealing 39-11.5
3567     6-9-2004    39-18.2
3568     6-9-2004    39-26.5
3569     6-9-2004    39-43.1.A
3570     6-9-2004    Repealed
3571     6-9-2004    42-47
3572     6-9-2004    46-19.1
3573     6-30-2004   12-53.1
3574     6-30-2004   12-54
3575     6-30-2004   12-58
3576     6-30-2004   12-62
3577     6-30-2004   12-62.1
3578     6-30-2004   12-62.2
3579     6-30-2004   12-62.5
3580     6-30-2004   12-63
3581     6-30-2004   12-64
3582     6-30-2004   12-65
3583     6-24-2004   35-1
3584     6-24-2004   35-6
3585     6-24-2004   35-15
3586     6-24-2004   35-15.1
3587     6-24-2004   35-16.2
3588     6-24-2004   Repealing
                     35-16.4
3589     6-24-2004   35-23.3
3590     6-24-2004   35-34.1
3591     6-24-2004   35-37
3592     6-24-2004   35-46.2
3593     6-24-2004   35-46.4
3594     6-24-2004   35-46.5
3595     6-24-2004   35-67
3596     6-24-2004   35-81
3597     6-24-2004   35-87
3598     6-24-2004   35-88
3599     6-24-2004   39-43.2
3600     6-24-2004   39-22
3601     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.1
3602     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.2
3603     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.3
3604     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.4
3605     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.5
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3606     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.6
3607     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.7
3608     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.8
3609     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.9
3610     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.10
3611     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.11
3612     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.12
3613     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.13
3614     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.14
3615     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.15
3616     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.16
3617     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.17
3618     6-24-2004   Repealing 41.1-1.18
3619     7-12-2004   TSO II
3620     8-9-2004    TSO II
3621     8-9-2004    31-43.3
3622     8-23-2004   35-23
3623     9-13-2004   4-13
3624     9-27-2004   4-2
3625     10-11-2004  18-21.5
3626     10-25-2004  39-22
3627     10-25-2004  2-102
3628     11-8-2004   18-21.3
3629     11-22-2004  2-1.2
                     46-34 –
                     46-40,
                     46-48 –
                     46-52,
                     46-52.1 –
                     46-52.3,
                     46-53 –
                     46-57,
                     46-57.1 –
                     46-57.3,
                     46-58,
3630     12-13-2004  46-58.1 –
                     46-58.3,
                     46-59 –
                     46-70,
                     46-73,
                     46-74,
                     46-84 –
                     46-86,
                     46-94 –
                     46-120,
                     46-125 –
                     46-177
3631     1-10-2005   TSO II
3632     1-10-2005   2-143
3633     2-14-2005   50-143 –
                     50-148
3634     2-14-2005   50-8.3
3635     3-14-2005   TSO II
3636     3-14-2005   35-16.5
                     46-158,
3637     3-28-2005   46-166,
                     46-177,
                     Ch. 46 Appendix
3638     4-11-2005   2-37
3639     4-11-2005   35-15
3640     4-15-2005   35-15.1
3641     4-11-2005   35-16.4
3642     4-11-2005   35-37
3643     4-25-2005   35-6
3644     -           Not enacted
3645     4-25-2005   1-12
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3646     4-25-2005   1-13
3647     4-25-2005   1-15
3648     4-25-2005   1-16
3649     4-25-2005   1-17
3650     4-25-2005   1-19
3651     6-13-2005   TSO II
3652     6-27-2005   1-13
3653     -           Not received/NC
3654     6-27-2005   1-15
3655     6-27-2005   1-17
3656     6-27-2005   1-19
3657     6-27-2005   Not codified
3658     6-27-2005   Not codified
3659     6-27-2005   Not codified
3660     7-11-2005   50-1
3661     7-25-2005   TSO II
3662     7-11-2005   35-16.4
3663     -           Not received/NC
3664     -           Not received/NC
3665     -           Not received/NC
3666     -           Not received/NC
3667     8-8-2005    50-182
3668     -           Not received/NC
                     50-161 –
                     50-165,
                     50-165.5,
3669     11-28-2005  50-167,
                     50-169 (repealing
                     50-166,
                     50-168)
3670     -           Not codified
3671     -           Not codified
3672     12-21-2005  28-15
3673     12-21-2005  28-1.2
3674     12-21-2005  TSO II
3675     1-9-2006    TSO II
3676     4-24-2006   TSO II
3677     8-26-2005   50-133
3678     5-8-2006    35-67
3679     5-8-2006    TSO II
3680     6-12-2006   TSO II
3681     8-28-2006   TSO II
3682     9-25-2006   46-50
3683     9-25-2006   50-155
3684     10-23-2006  50-46 –
                     50-49
3685     1-22-2007   31-9.2,
                     31-9.3
3686     1-22-2007   TSO II
                     31-5.4,
3687     2-26-2007   31-5.4.1,
                     31-5.5
3688     3-26-2007   35-23.4
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3689     4-23-2007   TSO II
3690     5-14-2007   TSO II
3691     5-14-2007   26-2
3692     6-11-2007   12-49.3
3693     6-25-2007   TSO II
                     28-2.1,
                     28-107,
                     28-110,
                     28-110.1,
3694     7-9-2007    28-111,
                     28-113,
                     28-114,
                     28-115.1,
                     28-118,
                     28-119
3695     2-27-2007   31-27.1.1
3696     11-12-2007  TSO II
                     50-155,
                     50-155.1,
3697     12-10-2007  50-156 –
                     50-159,
                     50-159.1,
                     50-160
3698     12-10-2007  TSO II
3699     1-14-2008   TSO II
3700     1-14-2008   TSO II
3701     -           Not received/NC
3702     4-14-2008   TSO II
3703     4-14-2008   50-94
3704     4-14-2008   50-147
3705     4-14-2008   50-1
3706     4-14-2008   50-5
3707     5-12-2008   24-4
3708     5-12-2008   24-1 –
                     24-3
3709     5-12-2008   TSO II
3710     5-12-2008   TSO II 
3711     5-12-2008   19-1
3712     5-12-2008   46-34,
                     46-35
3713     6-9-2008    35-111
3714     6-9-2008    18-21.10
3715     6-9-2008    18-21.5
3716     6-9-2008    18-21.7
3717     6-9-2008    46-50
3718     7-14-2008   TSO II
3719     7-14-2008   TSO II
3720     7-14-2008   35-23
3721     7-28-2008   28-115.1
3722     7-28-2008   28-118,
                     28-119
3723     7-28-2008   28-2.1
3724     7-28-2008   28-107
3725     7-28-2008   28-113,
                     28-114
3726     7-28-2008   2-143
                     28-110,
3727     8-11-2008   28-110.1,
                     28-111
3728     9-22-2008   TSO II
3729     10-27-2008  1-19
3730     11-10-2008  TSO II
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3731     11-19-2008  39-43.1.A
3732     11-19-2008  Repealing 39-47
3733     11-19-2008  46-126
3734     11-19-2008  46-134,
                     46-135
3735     11-19-2008  46-143
3736     11-19-2008  46-146
3737     11-19-2008  46-147
3738     11-19-2008  46-150,
                     46-151
3739     11-19-2008  46-155
3740     11-19-2008  46-153
3741     11-19-2008  46-161,
                     46-162
3742     11-19-2008  46-166
3743     11-19-2008  46-173
3744     12-17-2008  18-21.10
3745     12-8-2008   28-1.3
3746     1-12-2009   8-39
3747     1-12-2009   35-23.6
3748     1-12-2009   8-41
3749     1-12-2009   8-43
3750     4-13-2009   TSO II
3751     4-27-2009   18-21.5
3752     5-11-2009   TSO II
3753     5-20-2009   31-19.1,
                     31-19.2
3754     -           Not received/NC
3755     6-22-2009   18-21.5
3756     7-13-2009   24-108 –
                     24-113
3757     7-13-2009   11-31 –
                     11-35
3758     7-27-2009   35-42
                     31-7,
                     31-7.1,
                     31-8,
3759     10-12-2009  31-8.1,
                     31-9,
                     31-9.1 –
                     31-9.3
3760     11-23-2009  15-84 –
                     15-95
3761     12-14-2009  Repealing 46-87 – 46-93
3762     1-11-2010   1-7.2
3763     1-11-2010   31-27.3
3764     3-8-2010    12-62
3765     4-12-2010   35-16.4
3766     5-24-2010   35-26
3767     5-24-2010   35-8
3768     5-24-2010   35-10
3769     5-24-2010   42-14
3770     6-14-2010   30-3
3771     6-14-2010   39-29.1
3772     6-28-2010   31-80 –
                     31-88
3773     7-12-2010   1-15
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3774     7-12-2010   1-18
3775     7-12-2010   1-20
3776     7-12-2010   46-166
3777     8-9-2010    TSO II
3778     8-9-2010    TSO II
3779     8-9-2010    TSO II
3780     8-23-2010   31-20
3781     8-23-2010   TSO II
3782     9-23-2010   2-18
                     12-203 –
3783     12-13-2010  12-206,
                     12-208 –
                     12-257
3784     12-13-2010  12-272
3785     12-13-2010  12-263 –
                     12-271
3786     12-13-2010  12-258 –
                     12-262
3787     1-10-2011   31-50
3788     2-14-2011   TSO II
3789     2-14-2011   TSO II
3790     2-14-2011   31-83
3791     3-14-2011   1-8
3792     3-14-2011   18-23
3793     4-25-2011   TSO II
3794     6-27-2011   18-4.1
3795     6-27-2011   28-65
3796     6-27-2011   30-41
3797     8-8-2011    31-27.3
3798     8-8-2011    50-56
3799     8-22-2011   31-13.1
3800     9-12-2011   31-13.2
3801     9-12-2011   28-107
3802     9-12-2011   28-110.1
3803     9-12-2011   31-13.1
3804     9-26-2011   31-13.2
3805     9-26-2011   26-1.3
3806     11-28-2011  12-18
3807     11-28-2011  18-4.1
3808     11-28-2011  18-4.2
3809     11-28-2011  18-4.3
3810     11-28-2011  18-4.5
3811     11-28-2011  18-4.7
3812     1-13-2012   TSO II
3813     1-13-2012   TSO II
3814     1-13-2012   TSO II
3815     2-16-2012   35-26.1
3816     2-16-2012   35-34.1
3817     2-16-2012   35-46.2
 
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
3818     2-16-2012   35-46.4
3819     2-16-2012   35-46
                     24-98.1 –
3820     3-1-2012    24-98.5,
                     24-98.9,
                     24-98.10
3821     3-1-2012    24-1
 
 
