Village of Fowler, Michigan
Code of Ordinances
2023 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 10-26-14
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 39
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF
FOWLER, MICHIGAN; PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUATION OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE AS A
SEPARATE ORDINANCE; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED
IN THE CODE; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE
MANNER OF AMENDING THE CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN THE CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE
SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
   THE VILLAGE OF FOWLER ORDAINS:
   SECTION 1. The Code entitled "Code of Ordinances, Village of Fowler,
Michigan," published by American Legal Publishing Corporation, consisting of
Chapters 10 through 151, and the Table of Special Ordinances, inclusive, is
adopted.
   SECTION 2. Except with respect to Ordinance No. 20, the Zoning Ordinance,
which with all maps and diagrams shall remain in effect as an independent
ordinance, all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before October 8, 2001, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein, are repealed. The repeal shall not
affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior
to the effective date of this Ordinance. All prior ordinances pertaining to the
subjects treated in the Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and
after the effective date of this Ordinance except as they are included and re-
ordained in whole or in part in the Code. The repeal shall not affect the
provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or
detaching territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to
certain persons, authorizing the purchase or sale or real or personal property,
granting or excepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of temporary or special nature
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   SECTION 3. The Code of Ordinances consists of the following Titles and
Chapters:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Finance and Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Water arid Sewer Regulations
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   Traffic Regulations
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animals
      91.   Fire Prevention and Protection
      92.   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
      93.   Streets and Sidewalks
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Business Licensing
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Miscellaneous Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Building Regulations
      151.   Subdivision Regulations
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      I.   Bonds
      II.   Franchises
      III.   Vacated Property
   SECTION 4. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $500.00 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both.
Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation shall occur
shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this Section,
unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the amendment of
any Code section, whether or not such penalty is re-enacted in the amendatory
ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the Village may pursue
other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief and revocation
of licenses or permits.
   SECTION 5. The Code of Ordinances shall be presumptive evidence in all
courts and places of the ordinances, and all provisions, sections, penalties
and regulations therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same
is properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public
hearings and notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   SECTION 6. The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages,
promulgated by the Director of State Police and published in the 1979 edition
of the Michigan Administrative Code and amendments as published in the
Quarterly Supplement No. 5 to the 1979 edition of the Michigan Administrative
Code; in accordance with Act No. 62 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1956
(M.C.L.A. 257.951 et seq.; M.S.A. 92651 et seq.), as previously adopted and as
amended September 14, 1981, is continued as an ordinance of the Village. The
purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages is to
regulate the operation and use of motor vehicles within the Village of Fowler.
   SECTION 8. Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as
to indicate the intention of the Village Council to make the same a part of the
Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the
Code includes the addition and amendments.
   This Ordinance No. 39 of Ordinances, Village of Fowler, was filed with the
Village Clerk on October 8, 2001 in the form in which it was finally enacted,
at a regular meeting of the Village Council of the Village of Fowler held
October 8, 2001, and shall become effective immediately on October 14, upon
publication in the Clinton County News, a newspaper circulated in the Village.
A copy of the entire Code can be reviewed and obtained at the Village Hall at
225 North Main Street, Fowler, Michigan.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned President and Clerk of the Village of
Fowler hereby authenticate this Ordinance No. 39 this 8th day of October, 2001,
by their signatures.
                                 VILLAGE OF FOWLER
                              By:   Dale L. Thelen /s/
                                 DALE L. THELEN, President
SEAL OF THE
VILLAGE OF FOWLER
                              By:   Rhonda S. Feldpausch /s/
                                 RHONDA S. FELDPAUSCH, Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices or officers
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
Statutory reference:
   Villages generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1 et seq.
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Fowler shall be
designated as the “Fowler Code of Ordinances.”
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Clinton County, Michigan.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Fowler,
Michigan.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Fowler.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)    AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES OR OFFICERS.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when use of another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words shall be supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform
with the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as
though the correct words were contained in the text, as originally published.
No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   The Village Council, having endeavored to review in depth all existing
ordinances of the village to amend and re-write those applicable, hereby
repeals all existing Ordinances passed prior to September 14, 1981, being
Ordinance Numbers 1 through 69.
(Ord. 1, passed 9-14-81)
   (B)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
Example:   (Ord. 10, passed 1-10-85; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-10-90; Am. Ord. 20,
passed 1-10-95; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-10-99)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:   (M.C.L.A. § 15.231) (Ord. 10, passed 1-10-85; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-
10-95)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “Statutory Reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days,
or both fine and imprisonment. The offender may also be required to pay court
costs. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Penalty authorized, see M.C.L.A. § 66.2(5)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
   
31.   EMPLOYEE POLICIES
   
32.   VILLAGE CLERK AND VILLAGE TREASURER
CHAPTER 30: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
   Special Assessments
   
30.01   Public improvements; special assessments
   
30.02   Definitions
   
30.03   Resolution to initiate special assessment projects
   
30.04   Initiation by petition
   
30.05   Survey and report
   
30.06   Determination on the project; notice
   
30.07   Hearing; protest
   
30.08   Special assessment roll
   
30.09   Meeting to review special assessment roll; public hearing; notice;
objections
   
30.10   Changes and corrections in assessment roll; confirmation of roll
   
30.11   Illegality of roll; reconfirmation
   
30.12   Special assessment; when due
   
30.13   Partial payments; when due
   
30.14   Delinquent special assessments
   
30.15   Creation of lien
   
30.16   Additional assessments; refunds
   
30.17   Additional procedures
   
30.18   Collection of special assessments
   
30.19   Special assessment accounts
   
30.20   Reassessment for benefits
   
30.21   Assessing single lots
   
30.22   Special assessments; notice of hearing, service; local tax assessment
records
   
30.23   Anticipatory borrowing and bond issues; general obligation bonds
§ 30.01 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Village Council by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of its members may
adopt a resolution to determine that the whole or a part of the expense of a
local public improvement or repair shall be defrayed by special assessments
upon the property specially benefitted.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK and TREASURER. Those persons duly appointed or elected to such offices
or positions in the village.
   COST. When referring to the cost of any local public improvement, means the
same as “expense” and shall include the cost of services, surveying, plans,
condemnation, spreading of rolls, notices, advertising, printing, financing,
engineering, construction and legal fees and all other costs incidental to the
making of such improvements, the special assessments therefor and the financing
thereof.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer if the village has appointed an engineer,
otherwise, an engineer specifically employed by the village for the work on the
improvement.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement which is of such a nature
as to specially benefit any real property or properties within a district in
the vicinity of such improvement. It shall include, but not be limited to the
following improvements, including the land therefor: streets, alleys,
sidewalks, sewers, drains, water courses, water systems, or any other local
public improvement or repair.
   LOT or PARCEL OF LAND. Any subdivision lot or portion thereof as officially
platted or any unplatted parcel of land as may be described upon the tax rolls
of the village.
   OWNER. The last recorded title holder of any lot or parcel of land, or the
person whose name is last listed upon the village tax roll as owner of a
certain piece or parcel of land.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.03 RESOLUTION TO INITIATE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the village,
and the determination that the whole or any part of the expense thereof shall
be derived by special assessment upon the property specially benefited, may be
commenced by resolution of the Council, by the affirmative vote of two-thirds
of its members, with or without a petition, provided that all special
assessments levied shall be in proportion to the benefits derived from the
improvements.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.04 INITIATION BY PETITION.
   Local public improvements may be initiated by petition signed by property
owners owning 65% or more of the total property in the proposed special
assessment district. Such petition shall contain a brief description of the
property owned by the respective signers thereof and if it shall appear that
the petition is signed by at least 65% of the owners, the Clerk shall certify
the same to the Council. The petition shall be addressed to the Council but the
Council shall not be obligated to make the improvement.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.05 SURVEY AND REPORT.
   Before the Council shall consider the making of any local public
improvement, the same shall be referred by resolution to the Village Clerk
directing the Clerk to cause to be prepared a report which shall include
necessary plans, profiles, specifications and detailed estimates of costs, and
estimate of the life of the improvement, a description of the assessment
district or districts, and such other pertinent information as will permit the
Council to decide the cost, extent and desirability of the improvement proposed
and what part or proportion thereof should be paid by special assessments upon
the property specially benefited and what part, if any, should be paid by the
village at-large. The Council shall not finally determine to proceed with the
making of any local public improvement until such report of the Clerk has been
filed, nor until after a public hearing has been held by the Council for the
purpose of hearing objections to the making of such improvement.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.06 DETERMINATION ON THE PROJECT; NOTICE.
   (A)   After the Village Clerk has presented the report required in §
30.05 for making any local public improvement as requested in the resolution of
the Council, and the Council has reviewed the report, a resolution may be
passed approving the local public improvement, setting forth the nature
thereof, prescribing what part or proportion of the cost of such improvement
shall be paid by special assessment upon the property specially benefitted,
determination of benefits received by affected properties, and what part, if
any, shall be paid by the village at-large; designating the limits of the
special assessment district to be affected, designating whether property shall
be assessed according to frontage or other benefits, placing the complete
information on file in the office of the Clerk, where it shall be available for
examination, and directing the Clerk to give notice of public hearing on the
proposed improvement, at which time and place opportunity will be given
interested persons to be heard.
   (B)   Notice shall be given by one publication in a newspaper published or
circulated within the village and by first-class mail addressed to each owner
of or person in interest in property to be assessed as shown by the last
general tax assessment roll of the village, the publication and mailing to be
made at least ten full days before the date of the hearing. The hearing
required by this section may be held at any regular, adjourned, or special
meeting of the Council. The notice of the hearing shall include a statement
that appearance and protest at the hearing in the special assessment
proceedings is required by the landowner, either orally at the hearing or in
writing at or before the hearing, to preserve his or her right of appeal of the
special assessment to the State Tax Tribunal.
   (C)   If the improvement is to be the construction of a sewer, drain or
watercourse, the procedures required in Chapter 7, Section 26, of the General
Law Village Act (M.C.L.A. § 67.26) shall be followed in addition to the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.07 HEARING; PROTEST.
   (A)   At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons
interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard, after which the Council
may modify the scope of the local public improvement in such a manner as they
shall deem to be in the best interest of the village as a whole; provided that
if the amount of work is increased or additions are made to the district, then
another hearing shall be held pursuant to notice prescribed in §
30.06. If the determination of the Council shall be to proceed with the
improvement, a resolution shall be passed approving the necessary profiles,
plans, specifications, assessment district and detailed estimates of cost, and
directing the Treasurer to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with
the Council's determination and report the same to the Council for
confirmation.
   (B)   An owner or party in interest, or his or her agent may appear in
person at the hearing to protest the special assessment, or shall be permitted
to file his or her appearance or protest by letter and his or her personal
appearance shall not be required. The Council shall maintain a record of
parties who appear to protest at the hearing. If a hearing is terminated or
adjourned for the day before a party is provided the opportunity to be heard, a
party whose appearance was recorded is considered to have protested the special
assessment in person.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.08 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall thereupon prepare a special assessment roll
including all lots and parcels of land within the special assessment district
designated by Council, and shall assess to each such lot or parcel of land such
relative portion of the whole sum to be levied against all the lands in the
special assessment district as the benefit to such lot or parcel of land bears
to the total benefits to all lands in such district. There shall also be
entered upon such roll the amount which has been assessed to the village at-
large.
   (B)   When the Treasurer shall have completed such assessment roll, the
Treasurer shall attach thereto, or endorse thereon, a certificate to the effect
that the roll has been made by the Treasurer pursuant to a resolution of the
Council (giving date of its adoption) and that in making the assessments
therein the Treasurer has, as near as may be according to his or her best
judgment, conformed in all respects to the directions contained in such
resolution find to this subchapter, and to the state law and to the provisions
of this section. Thereupon the Treasurer shall file the special assessment roll
with the Village Clerk who shall present the same to the Council.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.09 MEETING TO REVIEW SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE;
OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such special assessment roll, the Council, by
resolution, shall accept the assessment roll and order it to be filed in the
office of the Village Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and
place the Council will meet to review the special assessment roll and direct
the Clerk to give notice of a public hearing for the purpose of affording an
opportunity for interested persons to be heard.
   (B)   The notice shall include a statement that the owner or any person
having an interest in the real property may file a written appeal of the
special assessment with the State Tax Tribunal within 30 days after the
confirmation of the special assessment roll if that special assessment was
protested at the hearing held for the purpose of confirming the roll. Such
notice shall be given by one publication in a newspaper published or circulated
within the village and by first-class mail addressed to each owner of or person
in interest in property to be assessed as shown by the last general tax
assessment roll of the village, the publication and mailing to be made at least
ten days prior to the date of the hearing. The hearing required by this section
may be held at any regular, adjourned or special meeting of the Council. At
this meeting, all interested persons or parties shall present in writing or
orally their objections, if any, to the assessments against them. The Treasurer
shall be present at every meeting of the Council at which a special assessment
is to be reviewed.
   (C)   If, at or prior to confirmation of any special assessment roll more
than 50% of the number of owners of privately owned real property to be
assessed for any improvement, or in the case of paving or similar improvements
more than 50% of the number of owners of frontage to be assessed for any such
improvements shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the
improvement shall not be made by proceedings authorized herein without an
affirmative vote of five members of the Council.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.10 CHANGES AND CORRECTIONS IN ASSESSMENT ROLL; CONFIRMATION OF THE ROLL.
   The Council shall meet at the time and place designated for the review of
such special assessment roll, and at such meeting, or a proper adjournment
thereof, shall consider all objections made orally or in writing. The Council
may correct the roll as to any special assessment or description of any lot or
parcel of land or other errors appearing therein; or it may, by resolution,
annul the assessment roll and direct that new proceedings be instituted. The
same proceedings shall be followed in making a new roll as in the making of the
original roll. If, after hearing all objections and making a record of such
changes as the Council deems justified, the Council determines that it is
satisfied with the special assessment roll and that assessments are in
proportion to benefits recovered, it shall thereupon pass a resolution reciting
its determinations, confirming the roll, placing the roll on file in the office
of the Village Clerk and directing the Village Clerk to attach a warrant to a
certified copy thereof within ten days, therein commanding the Treasurer to
spread and collect the various sums and amounts appearing thereon as directed
by the Council. The roll shall have the date of confirmation endorsed thereon
and shall from that date be final and conclusive for the purpose of the
improvement to which it applies, subject only to adjustment to conform to the
actual cost of the improvement, as provided in §
30.16.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.11 ILLEGALITY OF ROLL; RECONFIRMATION.
   If a portion of an assessment roll is determined to be illegal in whole or
in part, the Council may revoke its confirmation, correct the illegality, if
possible, and reconfirm it. Property which is not involved in the illegality
may not be assessed more than was imposed upon the original confirmation
without further notice and hearing thereon.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.12 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; WHEN DUE.
   All special assessments, except such installments thereof as the Council
shall make payable at a future time as provided in this subchapter, shall be
due and payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.13 PARTIAL PAYMENTS; WHEN DUE.
   The Council may provide for the payment of special assessments in annual
installments. Annual installments shall not exceed 15 in number, the first
installment being due upon confirmation of the roll or on such date as the
Council may determine. Deferred installments being due annually thereafter, or
in the discretion of the Council, may be spread upon and made a part of each
annual village tax roll thereafter until all are paid. Interest shall be
charged on all deferred installments not to exceed 10% per annum, commencing on
the due date of the first installment and payable on the due date of each such
subsequent installment; the full amount of all or any deferred installments,
with interest accrued thereon to the date of payment, may be paid in advance of
the due dates thereof. If the full assessment or the first installment thereof
shall be due upon confirmation, each property owner shall have 60 days from the
date of confirmation to pay the full amount of the assessment, or the full
amount of any installments thereof, without interest or penalty. Following the
60-day period, the assessment or first installment thereof shall, if unpaid, be
considered as delinquent and the same penalties shall be collected on such
unpaid assessments or first installments thereof as are provided in this
subchapter and state law to be collected on delinquent general village taxes.
Deferred installments shall be collected without penalty until 60 days after
the due date thereof, after which time such installments shall be considered as
delinquent and such penalties on the installments shall be collected as are
provided in the village ordinance to be collected on delinquent general village
taxes. After the Council has confirmed the roll, the Treasurer shall notify by
mail each property owner on the roll that the roll has been filed, stating the
amount assessed and the terms of payment. Failure on the part of the Treasurer
to give the notice or of such owner to receive the notice shall not invalidate
any special assessment roll of the village or any assessment thereon, nor
excuse the payment of interest or penalties. At the option of the village, the
notice or bill for the amount owing may be sent out after the project has been
completed. In such event no interest shall be owing nor shall the 60-day period
begin to run until after the notice has been mailed by the Treasurer.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.14 DELINQUENT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Any assessment, or part thereof, remaining unpaid on the first Monday of
March following the date when the same became delinquent shall be reported as
unpaid by the Treasurer to the Council. Any such delinquent assessment,
together with all accrued interest shall be transferred and reassessed on the
next annual village tax roll in a column headed “Special Assessments” with a
penalty of 4% upon such total amount added thereto, and when so transferred and
reassessed upon the tax roll shall be collected in all respects as provided for
the collection of village taxes.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.15 CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges thereon from the
date of confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the village from the
persons to whom they are assessed, and, until paid, shall be and remain a lien
upon the property assessed, of the same character and effect as the lien
created by general laws for state, county, and village taxes, and the lands
upon which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale therefor the same as
are lands upon which delinquent village taxes constitute a lien.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.16 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   The Village Clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each local
or special public improvement; compile the actual cost thereof and certify the
same to the Treasurer who shall adjust the special assessment roll to
correspond therewith. Should the assessment prove larger than the actual cost
by 5% or less, the same shall be reported to the Council which may place the
excess in the village treasury or make a refund thereof pro rata according to
the assessment. If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by more than 5%,
the entire excess shall be credited to owners of property as shown by the
village assessment roll upon which such assessment has been levied, pro rata
according to the assessment; provided, however, that no refunds of special
assessments may be made which impair, or contravene the provision of any
outstanding obligation or bond secured in whole or part by such special
assessments. When any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to meet
the cost of the improvement for which it was made, the Council may make an
additional pro rata assessment, but the total amount assessed against any one
parcel of land shall not exceed the benefits received by the lot or parcel of
land.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.17 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this subchapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the
Council shall provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures required.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.18 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In the event bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special
assessments as hereinbefore provided, all collections on each special
assessment roll or combination of rolls shall be set in a separate fund for the
payment of the principal and interest on the bonds so issued in anticipation of
the payment of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other
purpose.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.19 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local
improvements shall be held in a special fund to pay such cost or to repay any
money borrowed therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses
incidental thereto, including the repayment of the principal and interest on
money borrowed therefor, and to refund excessive assessments, if refunds are
authorized.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.20 REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   Whenever the Council shall deem any special assessment invalid or defective
for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction shall have
adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in whole or in
part, the Council shall have power to cause a new assessment to be made for the
same purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether or not the
improvement or any part thereof has been completed and whether any part of the
assessment has been collected or not. All proceedings on such reassessment and
for the collection thereof shall be made in the manner as provided for the
original assessment. If any portion of the original assessment shall have been
collected and not refunded, it shall be applied upon the reassessment and the
reassessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied. If more than the amount
reassessed shall have been collected, the balance shall be refunded to the
person making such payment.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.21 ASSESSING SINGLE LOTS.
   When any expense shall have been incurred by the village upon or in respect
to any single premises, which expense is chargeable against such premises and
the owner thereof under the provisions of this subchapter, or any ordinance of
the village, or law of the state, and is not of that class required to be
prorated among several lots and parcels of land in a special assessment
district, an account of the labor, material or service for which such expense
was incurred, with a description of the premises upon or in respect to which
the expense was incurred, and the name of the owner, if known, shall be
reported to the Village Clerk who shall immediately charge and bill the owner,
if known. The Village Treasurer shall annually on or before January 15, or at
such other times as the Treasurer may deem advisable, prepare a special
assessment roll covering all such charges which shall not have been paid. The
roll shall be filed with the Village Clerk who shall present the same to the
Council. However, the Council may follow the entire procedure used for other
special assessments. Upon confirmation of any special assessment roll
authorized by this section, the Council shall determine the number of
installments in which assessments may be paid, not to exceed 15 and the rate of
interest to be charged on installments, but not to exceed 10%.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.22 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; NOTICE OF HEARING, SERVICE; LOCAL TAX ASSESSMENT
RECORDS.
   In all cases where special assessments are made against property, notice of
all hearings in the special assessment proceedings shall be given as provided
in this subchapter, in addition to any notice of such hearings to be given by
publication or posting as required by statute or ordinance. The “last general
tax assessment roll of the village” means the last assessment roll for ad
valorem tax purposes which has been reviewed by the local Board of Review, as
supplemented by any subsequent changes in the names or the addresses of such
owners or parties listed thereon.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
§ 30.23 ANTICIPATORY BORROWING AND BOND ISSUES; GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS.
   The Council may borrow money and issue bonds of the village therefor in
anticipation of the payment of special assessments in one or more special
assessment districts, which bonds may be an obligation of the special
assessment districts or may be both an obligation of the special assessments
district and a general obligation of the village. The Council may issue general
obligation bonds to defray that portion of the cost and expense of a local
public improvement chargeable to the village at-large.
(Ord. 38, passed - -00)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEE POLICIES
Section
   General Policies
   
31.01   Village officers compensation
   Ethics Policy
   
31.10   Title
   
31.11   Definitions
   
31.12   Intent and purpose
   
31.13   Fair and equal treatment
   
31.14   Use of public property
   
31.15   Matters requiring disclosure of conflicts of interest, actual and
potential
   
31.16   Prohibited conduct
   
31.17   Public disclosure, contents
   
31.18   Duties of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.19   Request for opinion from the Village Attorney
   
31.20   Delivery of copies of ethics code to public servants
   
31.99   Penalty
   GENERAL POLICIES
§ 31.01 VILLAGE OFFICERS COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Village officers shall receive compensation for the performance of
duties of their respective offices as provided in this section.
   (B)   The amount of compensation due and the frequency and manner of payment
shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Council, before the
services are rendered.
   (C)   The compensation of the President is payable in a uniform monthly
amount for services including attendance at Council meetings and the
performance of other duties of the office.
   (D)   Each trustee shall be compensated in a standard amount for attendance
at Council meetings, plus a uniform monthly stipend for other duties.
   (E)   The Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer shall received sums to be
determined by resolution of the Council from time to time for fulfilling the
duties of their respective offices. Other village officers shall receive such
compensation for services rendered the village as prescribed by the Council.
(Ord. 44, passed 5-12-03)
ETHICS POLICY
§ 31.10 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Ethics Policy Ordinance” or the “Code
of Ethics for Public Servants of the Village of Fowler” (“the Code”).
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.11 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever in this subchapter the following terms are used, they shall have
the meanings described to them in this section:
   BUSINESS ENTITY. A business entity includes a corporation, a partnership,
sole proprietorship, joint venture, unincorporated association, trust, or other
business form.
   INTEREST. Any right, title or share in something, either personal,
financial, legal or equitable, which is owned, held or controlled, in whole or
in part, directly or indirectly, by a public servant.
   PUBLIC BODY. The Village Council, and any board, authority, commission,
committee, department, office or other agency of the village, and includes the
village.
   PUBLIC SERVANT. The Mayor, member of the Village Council, officer, full or
part-time village employee and any person elected or appointed to any public
body of the village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Fowler, a Michigan municipal corporation.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.12 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter that a public servant, regardless
of whether specifically prohibited by this subchapter, shall avoid any action
which might result in or create the appearance of:
      (1)   Using public office or employment for private gain.
      (2)   Giving improper preferential treatment to any person or
organization.
      (3)   Impeding government, efficiency or economy.
      (4)   A lack of independence or impartiality of action.
      (5)   Making a government decision outside of official channels.
      (6)   Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the integrity
of the village.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this subchapter to in any way limit the right
or ability of any public servant to exercise his or her discretion in making
legitimate policy decisions which are within their discretion so long as such
action does not provide a special benefit to that person, relieve the public
servant of a particular duty, or treat that person differently than other
similarly situated village residents.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.13 FAIR AND EQUAL TREATMENT.
   No public servant shall request, use or permit the use of any consideration,
treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which is the general practice to
grant or make available to the public at large. All public servants shall treat
all citizens of the village with courtesy, impartiality, fairness and equality
under the law.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.14 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No public servant shall request, use or permit the use of any publicly owned
or publicly supported property, vehicle, equipment, material, labor or service,
or money, for the personal convenience or the private advantage of self or of
any other person. This requirement shall not be deemed to prevent any public
servant from requesting, using or permitting the use of such publicly owned or
publicly supplied property, vehicle, equipment, material, labor or service
which is made available by general practice, to the public at large, or which
is provided, as a matter of public policy for the use of public servants in the
conduct of official business, as approved consideration for their services to
the village.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.15 MATTERS REQUIRING DISCLOSURE OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, ACTUAL AND
POTENTIAL.
   The following disclosure requirements are established to avoid both actual
and potential conflict between the private self interest and the public
interest of public servants:
   (A)   Self interest. No public servant, either on his or her behalf or on
behalf of any other person, shall have an interest in any business transaction
with any public body of the village, unless the person shall first make full
public disclosure of the nature of such interest.
   (B)   Disclosure and disqualification. Whenever the performance of official
duties shall require a public servant to deliberate and vote on any matter
involving his or her financial or personal interest, that person shall publicly
disclose the nature and extent of such interest and is disqualified from
participating in the deliberations and voting on the matter.
   (C)   Dual employment. No public servant shall engage in employment with, or
render services for, any person or entity, which has business transactions with
any public body of the village, without first making full public disclosure of
the nature and extent of the employment or services.
   (D)   Dual representation. A public servant shall make full public
disclosure of business involving the village when attempting to use his or her
official position to secure special privileges or exemptions for self or
others.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.16 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   All public servants are prohibited from engaging in the following conduct:
   (A)   Divulging confidential information to any person not authorized to
obtain such information.
   (B)   Benefitting financially from confidential information.
   (C)   Representing his or her individual opinion as that of the village.
   (D)   Misusing village personnel resources, property, funds or assets for
personal gain.
   (E)   Soliciting or accepting a gift or loan of money, goods, services or
other things of value which tend to influence the manner in which the public
servant performs his or her official duties.
   (F)   Engaging in a business transaction which may cause the public servant
to derive a personal profit or gain directly or indirectly as a result of his
or her official position.
   (G)   Engaging in employment or rendering services that are incompatible or
in conflict with the discharge of his or her official duties or that tend to
impair his or her independence of judgement.
   (H)   Participating in contracts, loans, grants, rate fixing, or issuing
permits involving a business entity in which he or she has a substantial
interest; however this provision shall not apply in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Contracting with the village where:
         (a)   The contract is awarded pursuant to sealed bids;
         (b)   The public servant is not involved directly or indirectly or
otherwise refrains from participation in the decision on the award of the
contract; and
         (c)   The Village Council, after reviewing the circumstances,
determines the award of the contract would be in the best interest of the
village.
      (2)   Where the interest of the public servant in the business entity
involves the holding of less than 1% of the securities in a publicly traded
business or less than 5% of any privately or closely held business and where
the public servant will not have any involvement in the transaction on behalf
of the contracting business entity.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.17 PUBLIC DISCLOSURE, CONTENTS.
   Whenever a public disclosure is required by this subchapter, it may be made
orally on the record at a meeting of the public body involved, or in a writing
filed with the Clerk-Treasurer, in both of which cases it shall be made a part
of the record of a regular Village Council meeting, and in either event shall
include:
   (A)   The identity of all persons involved in the interest.
   (B)   The source and amount of income derived from the interest that may be
considered as resulting from employment, investment or gift. The person
required to file a disclosure statement in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter must verify, in writing, under penalty of perjury, the
information in the statement is true and complete as far as he or she knows.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.18 DUTIES OF THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall examine all disclosure statements filed pursuant
to this subchapter and report irregularities immediately to the person filing
the statement, to the Village President, Administrator, and the Village
Attorney. Acceptance of a statement by the Clerk-Treasurer shall not constitute
approval of the statement. The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a current list of
all disclosure statements required to be available for public disclosure. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall preserve all disclosure statements for at least three
years after the date on which they are filed. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make
available to the public all statements that are required to be available for
inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.19 REQUEST FOR OPINION FROM THE VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   Any public servant may request that the Village Attorney provide an advisory
opinion interpreting the effect or application of this subchapter generally, or
on questions directly relating to the propriety of their conduct in a
particular situation.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.20 DELIVERY OF COPIES OF ETHICS CODE TO PUBLIC SERVANTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deliver a copy of this subchapter to each public
servant as soon as practicable after the enactment of this subchapter, and to
each new public servant at the time of employment or taking office. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall also request that each such person sign and return an
acknowledgment of receipt of a copy of this subchapter.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of
§§ 31.10 et seq. shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by a
sentence of 90 days in jail, or both, in the discretion of the court. The
penalty or penalties imposed are not exclusive remedies under this chapter and
any and all statutory and Charter penalties or forfeitures may also be
enforced. Any person convicted under the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of misconduct.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-8-03)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE CLERK AND VILLAGE TREASURER
Section
   
32.01   Nomination of candidates
   
32.02   Terms
§ 32.01 NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES.
   In accordance with Section 1 of Chapter II of the General Law Village Act,
as amended by Public Acts 2003, No. 305, and by Public Acts 2004, No. 300, the
offices of the Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer shall be filled by the
nomination of a candidate for each position by the Village President and
appointment by the Village Council (M.C.L.A. §62.1).
(Ord. - - , passed 8-8-05)
§ 32.02 TERMS.
   The respective terms of office of the Village Clerk and the Village
Treasurer shall be indefinite. The first term of office of the Village Clerk
and the Village Treasurer under this chapter shall commence November 20, 2006,
at the expiration of their current terms.
(Ord. - - , passed 8-8-05)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   General Provisions
   
50.01   Water and sewer connections, hook-ups and meter fees
   
50.02   Cross connections with the public water supply
   
50.03   Disconnection of utility services for late payments
   
50.04   Operation and maintenance of the water supply system
   Sewer Use Regulations
   
50.15   Operation and maintenance of the sanitary sewage disposal system
   
50.16   Definitions
   
50.17   Use of public sewers required
   
50.18   Private sewage disposal
   
50.19   Building sewers and connections
   
50.20   Prohibited discharges
   
50.21   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
50.22   Approval for certain discharges; preliminary treatment facilities
   
50.23   Observation, sampling, tests and measurements
   
50.24   Special agreements
   
50.25   Powers and authority of inspectors
   Water System Safeguards
   
50.35   Title
   
50.36   Definitions
   
50.37   Installation of new wells
   
50.38   Water connection
   
50.39   Availability of village water supply
   
50.40   Inspections
   
50.41   Potential hazards pertaining to an abandoned well on property
   
50.42   Abandonment of wells
   
50.43   Demolition
   
50.44   Non-supersedence
   
50.45   Emergency disconnect
   
50.46   Savings clause
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bonds, see
T.S.O. I
   Nuisances generally, see
Chapter 92
   Special assessments, see §§
30.01 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS, HOOK-UPS AND METER FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or open into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or water
main or any appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a written permit from
the Village Superintendent.
   (B)   Permit fee.
      (1)   All connections with the sanitary sewer or water system of the
village shall be made only on written authorization and permits issued by the
village and upon payment of such fees as shall be established from time to time
by the Village Council. On the effective date of this section, the following
fees are established:
         Sanitary Sewer Connection, $350
         Water Lead Connection, $200 plus cost of the meter
      (2)   The Village Council may, by resolution, from time to time, change
and alter the initial fees for hook-ups and connections set forth herein.
   (C)   Installation costs. All costs and expenses incident to the
installation and connection of a building sewer or water line shall be borne by
the owner of the property. The owner shall indemnify the village from all loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by any installation of
building sewer or water leads.
   (D)   Inspection. The applicant for a building sewer permit or water lead
shall notify the Village Superintendent when the building sewer or water line
is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer or public water
mains. The Village Superintendent shall then inspect the building and plumbing
construction and if the construction meets the requirements of all existing
building codes and the connection fees have been paid, the connection shall be
allowed.
   (E)   Repairs. The cost of all repairs, maintenance and replacement of
existing building sewers or water lines and their respective connections to
public sewers or mains shall be borne by the property owner. Such owner shall
make application to perform much work to the Village Superintendent.
(Ord. 36, passed 7-21-97)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.02 CROSS CONNECTIONS WITH THE PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The village adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection
Rules of the Michigan Department of Public Health, being R 325.11401 through R
325.11407 of the Michigan Administrative Code.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Water Superintendent to cause inspections
to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross
connections with the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the Water Department and as approved by the Michigan
Department of Public Health.
   (C)   The representative of the Water Department shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping
system or systems thereof for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessees
or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency
any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such
property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested,
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   (D)   The Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the
cross connection has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
section.
   (E)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this section and by the State and Village Plumbing Code. Any water
outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not
supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as
“WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING.”
   (F)   This section does not supersede the State Plumbing Code but is
supplementary to it.
   (G)   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of this section, or any written order of the Water Department, in pursuance
thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this section shall
occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the purpose of
this section.
(Ord. 22, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.03 DISCONNECTION OF UTILITY SERVICES FOR LATE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village's form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
three months of the original due date, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least three months.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due plus penalties have been paid, along with
a turn-on charge to be established by the Village Council.
Statutory reference:
   Termination of utility services for nonpayment of a bill authorized, see
M.C.L.A. §
141.121
§ 50.04 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary, for the public
health, safety and welfare of the village, that the water supply system of the
village be operated on a public utility rate basis.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Whenever the words THE SYSTEM are referred to in this section, they
shall be understood to mean the complete water supply system of the village,
including all water mains, pumps, wells, storage tanks, valves, hydrants,
treatment facilities, and all other facilities used or useful in collection,
treatment and distribution, including appurtenances thereto and including
extensions and improvements thereto which may hereafter be acquired.
      (2)   Whenever the words REVENUES and NET REVENUES are used in this
section, they  shall be understood to have the meanings as defined in Public
Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§141.103 et seq., as amended.
   (C)   The operation, maintenance, alteration, repair and management of the
system shall be under the supervision and control of the Village Council. The
Village Council may employ such person or persons in such capacity or
capacities as it deems advisable to carry on the efficient management and
operation of the system and may make such rules, orders and regulations as it
deems advisable and necessary to assure the efficient management and operation
of the system.
   (D)   Rates to be charged for service furnished by the system shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Establishment of water rates. The rates for water service charges
are to be established by resolution of the Village Council, and may be
established separately from time to time as necessary to ensure sufficiency of
revenues in meeting the expenses of the water system. Rates need not be uniform
for separate water supply districts.
      (2)   Special rates. For miscellaneous or special services for which a
special rate shall be established, such rates shall be fixed by the Village
Council.
      (3)   Billing. Bills will be rendered quarterly at the same time as the
village sewer billings and shall bear the same payment and penalty provisions
as the sewer bills.
      (4)   Enforcement.
         (a)   The charges for services which are under the provisions of
Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as amended, are made a
lien on all premises served thereby, unless notice is given that a tenant is
responsible, are hereby recognized to constitute such lien, and whenever any
such charge against any parcel of property shall be delinquent for six months,
the village official or officials in charge of the collection thereof shall
certify annually, on March 1 of each year, to the tax assessing officer of the
village the facts of such delinquency whereupon such charge shall be by him or
her entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against such premises and shall
be collected and the lien thereof enforced in the manner as general village
taxes against such premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced. Where
notice is given that a tenant is responsible for such charges and the service
as provided by M.C.L.A. § 141.121, no further service shall be rendered to such
premises until a cash deposit shall have been made as security for payment of
such charges and service.
         (b)   In addition to the foregoing, the village shall have the right
to shut off water service to any premises for which charges for water service
are more than three months delinquent, and such service shall not be
reestablished until all delinquent charges and penalties and a turn-on charge,
to be specified by the Village Council, have been paid. Further, such charges
and penalties may be recovered by the village by court action.
   (E)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm
or corporation, or other legal entity, public or private, or to any public
agency or instrumentality.
   (F)   The rates hereby fixed shall be estimated to be sufficient to provide
for the payment of the expenses of administration and operation, such expenses
for maintenance of the system as are necessary to preserve the same in good
repair and working order, to provide for the payment of bonds of the village
issued to improve the system, and to provide for such other expenditures and
funds for the system as this section may require. Such rates shall be fixed and
revised from time to time as may be necessary to produce these amounts.
   (G)   The system shall be operated on the basis of a fiscal year
corresponding with that of the village sewer system.
   (H)   The revenues of the system shall be set aside and collected and
deposited in a separate depository account in a designated bank duly qualified
to do business in Michigan, in an account to be designated Water System
Receiving Fund (hereinafter, for brevity, referred to as the Receiving Fund),
and the revenues so deposited shall be managed in a manner as deemed by the
Village Council to be appropriate and in the best interest of the system.
   (I)   Moneys in any fund or account established by the provisions of this
section may be invested in obligations of the United States of America, in the
manner and subject to the limitations provided in Public Act 94 of 1933, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 et seq., as amended. In the event such investments are
made, the securities representing the same shall be kept on deposit with the
bank or trust company having on deposit the fund or funds from which such
purchase was made. Income received from such investments shall be credited to
the fund from which the investments were made.
(Ord. passed 3-12-07)
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary, for the public
health, safety and welfare of the village, that the sanitary sewage disposal
system of the village be operated on a public utility rate basis, in accordance
with the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§
141.101 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the words “the system” are referred to in this section,
they shall be understood to mean the complete sanitary sewage disposal system
of the village, including all sewers, pumps, lift stations, treatment
facilities, and all other facilities used or useful in the collection,
treatment and disposal of domestic, commercial or industrial wastes, including
all appurtenances thereto and including all extensions and improvements thereto
which may hereafter be acquired.
      (2)   Whenever the words “revenues” and “net revenues” are used in this
section, they shall be understood to have the meanings as defined in Public Act
94 of 1933, § 3, being M.C.L.A. §
141.103, as amended.
   (C)   The operation, maintenance, alteration, repair and management of the
system shall be under the supervision and control of the Village Council. The
Village Council may employ such person or persons in such capacity or
capacities as it deems advisable to carry on the efficient management and
operation of the system and may make such rules, orders and regulations as it
deems advisable and necessary to assure the efficient management and operation
of the system.
   (D)   Rates to be charged for service furnished by the system shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Sewer use charges. Sewer use charges shall be billed at the rate of
.70 times the quarterly water bill for the premises.
      (2)   Special rates. For miscellaneous or special services for which a
special rate shall be established, such rates shall be fixed by the Village
Council.
      (3)   Billing. Bills will be rendered quarterly at the same time as the
village water billings and shall bear the same payment and penalty provisions
as the water bills.
      (4)   Enforcement.
         (a)   The charges for services which are under the provisions of
Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. §
141.121, as amended, make a lien on all premises served thereby, unless notice
is given that a tenant is responsible, are hereby recognized to constitute such
lien, and whenever any such charge against any piece of property shall be
delinquent for six months, the village official or officials in charge of the
collection thereof shall certify annually, on March 1st of each year, to the
tax-assessing officer of the village the facts of such delinquency whereupon
such charge shall be by him or her entered upon the next tax roll as a charge
against such premises and shall be collected and the lien thereof enforced in
the manner as general village taxes against such premises are collected and the
lien thereof enforced. Where notice is given that a tenant is responsible for
such charges and service as provided by M.C.L.A. §
141.121, no further service shall be rendered to such premises until a cash
deposit in the amount of $20 shall have been made as security for payment of
such charges and service.
         (b)   In addition to the foregoing, the village shall have the right
to shut off water and sewer service to any premises for which charges for sewer
service are more than three months delinquent, and such service shall not be
reestablished until all delinquent charges and penalties and a turn-on charge,
to be specified by the Village Council, have been paid. Further, such charges
and penalties may be recovered by the village by court action.
   (E)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm
or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
   (F)   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for
the payment of the expenses of administration and operation, such expenses for
maintenance of the system as are necessary to preserve the same in good repair
and working order, to provide for the payment of general obligation bonds of
the village issued to improve the system, and to provide for such other
expenditures and funds for the system as this section may require. Such rates
shall be fixed and revised from time to time as may be necessary to produce
these amounts.
   (G)   The system shall be operated on the basis of a fiscal year
corresponding with that of the village water system.
   (H)   The revenues of the system shall be set aside and collected and
deposited in a separate depositary account in a designated bank duly qualified
to do business in Michigan, in an account to be designated “Sewage Disposal
System Receiving Fund” (hereinafter, for brevity, referred to as the “Receiving
Fund”), and the revenues so deposited shall be transferred from the Receiving
Fund periodically in the manner and at the times hereinafter specified.
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. Out of the revenues in the
Receiving Fund there shall be first set aside quarterly into a depositary
account, designated “Operation and Maintenance Fund,” a sum sufficient to
provide for the payment of the next quarter's current expenses of
administration and operation of the system and such current expenses for the
maintenance thereof as may be necessary to preserve the same in good repair and
working order.
      (2)   General Obligation Debt Retirement Fund. There shall next be
established and maintained a depositary account, to be designated “General
Obligation Debt Retirement Fund,” which shall be used solely for the payment of
the General Obligation Sewage Disposal System Bonds, dated April 1, 1970, of
the village. There shall be deposited in the fund quarterly, after requirements
of the Operation and Maintenance Fund have been met, such sums as shall be
necessary to pay the principal and interest on the bonds when due. Should the
revenues of the system prove insufficient for this purpose, such revenues may
be supplemented by any other funds of the village legally available for such
purpose.
      (3)   Replacement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained a
depositary account, designated “Replacement Fund,” which shall be used solely
for the purpose of making major repairs and replacements to the system if
needed. There shall be set aside into the fund, after provision has been made
for the Operation and Maintenance Fund and the General Obligation Debt
Retirement Fund, such revenues as the Village Council shall deem necessary for
this purpose.
      (4)   Improvement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained an
“Improvement Fund” for the purpose of making improvements, extensions and
enlargements to the system. There shall be deposited into the fund, after
providing for the foregoing fund, such revenues as the Village Council shall
determine.
      (5)   Surplus moneys. Moneys remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end
of any operating year, after full satisfaction of the requirements of the
foregoing funds, may, at the option of the Village Council, be transferred to
the Improvement Fund or used in connection with any other project of the
village reasonably related to purposes of the system.
      (6)   Bank accounts. All moneys belonging to any of the foregoing funds
or accounts may be kept in one bank account, in which event the moneys shall be
allocated on the books and records of the village within this single bank
account, in the manner above set forth.
   (I)   In the event the moneys in the Receiving Fund are insufficient to
provide for the current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, any
moneys or securities in other funds of the system, except sums in the General
Obligation Debt Retirement Fund derived from tax levies, shall be transferred
to the Operation and Maintenance Fund to the extent of any deficit therein.
   (J)   Moneys in any fund or account established by the provisions of this
section may be invested in obligations of the United States of America, in the
manner and subject to the limitations provided in Public Act 94 of 1933, being
M.C.L.A. §§
141.101 et seq., as amended. In the event such investments are made, the
securities representing the same shall be kept on deposit with the bank or
trust company having on deposit the fund or funds from which such purchase was
made. Income received from such investments shall be credited to the fund from
which the investments were made.
(Ord. 19, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 19A, passed 3-9-98)
§ 50.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° Centigrade, expressed in parts by million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of the drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drain pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The sewer that connects the building drain with the public
sewer or other place of disposal and conveys the sewage of one building.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, processing and sale of produce.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The official Health Department of Clinton County.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Liquid wastes, solids or semi-solids from industrial
processes as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any water course, pond, ditch, lake, or any other body of
water, either surface or ground.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING BOARD. The appointed Board of Plumbing of the village.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any septic tank, cesspool or other
facilities intended or used for the disposal of sanitary sewage, and which is
not owned and operated by the village.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been cut or shredded to such a
degree that all particles will be carried away freely under flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particles greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   S.W.R.C. The State Water Resources Commission.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The liquid or water-carried waste discharged from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels),
office buildings, factories or institutions.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary sewage and industrial waste
or either of them and to which storm water is not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of sanitary sewage, storm water, industrial wastes
and uncontaminated industrial wastes, or any of them.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries the storm water and
uncontaminated industrial wastes, or either of them.
   STORM WATER. That part of the rainfall or melted snow which reaches the
sewers as runoff from natural land surface, building roofs or pavements, or as
ground water infiltration or uncontaminated industrial water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The solids that either float on the surface of or are
suspended in water, sewage of other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   UNCONTAMINATED INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Waste water which has not come into
contact with any substance used in or incidental to industrial processing
operations.
   WATER COURSE. An open channel, either natural or artificial, in which a flow
of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
§ 50.17 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner upon any public or private property
within the village or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village any
human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any watercourse within the
village or any area under the jurisdiction of the village any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted water except were suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with the provision of this chapter and the statutes
and regulations of the state.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
repair any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended
or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all dwellings, buildings, structures or properties used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within
the village and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there
is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined
sewer of the village is hereby required at his or her own expense to install
suitable toilet facilities and other sanitary conveniences therein, and to
connect such facilities directly to the proper public sewer in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The Village Council may require any such owner,
pursuant to the authority conferred upon it by law or ordinance, to make such
installation or connection, the cost of which shall be defrayed by the owner,
which installation must be completed within two years from the effective date
of this section and provided no repairs may be made to existing facilities.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.18 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer is not available under
the provisions of §
50.17(D), the building sewer shall be connected with a private disposal system
constructed in compliance with state law and the regulations and orders of the
Village Council.
   (B)   (1)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
to the public sewer in compliance with the provisions of this chapter as
provided in §
50.17(D). Any septic tank, privy, privy vault, cesspool or similar private
sewage disposal facility used shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
      (2)   Upon application of the owner of such property, the Village Council
may grant a delay of not more than two years before making connection to such a
public sewer. Such delay shall be granted only if private facilities are
satisfactory and create no nuisance or health hazard.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the village.
   (D)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Village Council or
the Health Department with respect to private sewage disposal.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.19 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
open into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or any appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Village Clerk or from such
other official as the Village Council may designate as its Plumbing Board.
   (B)   All connections with any sewer in the village shall be made only on
written authorization and permits issued by the Village Clerk on such forms and
on payment of such fees as shall be established from time to time by the
Village Council.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner of the property.
   (D)   All applicants for sewer connection permits shall, when required,
submit plans and specifications of all plumbing connections within such
building or premises and such plans and specifications shall meet the
requirements of the Village Council. When such plans and specifications have
been approved by the Village Council, or by such official as it may designate,
a sewer or plumbing permit shall be issued, subject to final inspection and
approval when construction is completed.
   (E)   The applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the Village
Clerk, or such other official as the Village Council shall designate, when the
building sewer is ready for inspection. The Village Clerk, or such other
official as the Village Council shall designate, shall then inspect the
building and plumbing construction therein and if such construction meets the
previous requirements as approved in the construction permit, a sewer
connection approval shall be issued, subject to the applicable provisions of
other sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.20 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers
or to a natural outlet approved by the Village Council. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the
Village Council, into a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or waste into any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°
Fahrenheit, or lower than 30° Fahrenheit.
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 50 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil, or grease.
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      (4)   Any garbage which has not been properly shredded.
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, wood pulp, paunch manure, or any solid or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
the structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works.
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, fish or aquatic life or create any
hazard in any receiving waters or in the sewage treatment plant.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing in excess of three parts per
million by weight of cyanide, hexavalent chromium or copper wastes.
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
or quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.21 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the
opinion of the Village Council they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid waste containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable waste,
sand, or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Village Council and shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil
interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be
substantially constructed, water-tight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.22 APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN DISCHARGES; PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a
five day BOD greater than 300 parts per million by weight; or containing more
than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or containing more
than 1,000 parts per million by weight of total solids; or having a chlorine
demand of more than 15 parts per million by weight; or containing any quantity
or substance having a characteristic described in division (C) of this section;
or having a daily average flow greater than 2% of the average daily sewage flow
of the village shall be subject to the review and approval of the Village
Council. Where necessary in the opinion of the Village Council, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to reduce the BOD to 300 parts per million, the suspended solids to 350 parts
per million, total solids to 1,000 parts per million, and the chlorine demand
to 15 parts per million by weight; or reduce objectionable characteristics or
constituents to within the maximum limits provided for in division (C) of this
section; or control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   (B)   Plans, specifications or any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for approval to
the Village Council and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until such approvals are obtained in writing.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained in satisfactory and efficient operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.23 OBSERVATION, SAMPLING, TESTS AND MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   When required by the Village Council, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of wastes. Such manholes, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with the plans approved
by the Village Council. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or
her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §§
50.20(C) and
50.22(A) shall be determined in accordance with the Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided for in division (A) of this section or upon suitable samples taken at
the control manhole, or if no manhole then at a point or location at the entry
of the waters and wastes into the public sewer. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest down-stream manhole in the public sewer to the point of which the
building sewer is connected.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.24 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to the payment by the industrial concern of
the estimated cost of such treatment.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
§ 50.25 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Village Clerk and other duly authorized officials or employees of the
village, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter at any time during reasonable or usual business hours. Any person
guilty of refusing or obstructing such entry shall upon conviction be
punishable as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 17, passed 9-14-81)
WATER SYSTEM SAFEGUARDS
§ 50.35 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Village of Fowler Wellhead Protection
and Mandatory Water Connection Ordinance."(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
§ 50.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED WELL. Any well that may be driven, drilled or dug which is no
longer in use.
   AQUIFER. A geologic formation, group of formations or part of formation
capable of storing and yielding a significant amount of groundwater to wells or
springs.
   HAZARD OR POTENTIAL HAZARD TO AQUIFER. Any chemical or material that may be
harmful to the public health, safety, welfare or the environment.
   WELL. Includes any apparatus that is driven, dug or drilled that may
penetrate the layers of the aquifer.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION. Protecting the village's water system wells,
distribution systems, and aquifer from any hazard or potential hazard that may
penetrate protected layers of the aquifer.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
§ 50.37 INSTALLATION OF NEW WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful and punishable as provided herein for any person,
partnership or corporation to install a new well in the village if village
water supply is available. In the event that a new well is installed for
exploratory purposes only, it shall be installed and plugged under the rules
and regulations of the county and the state health codes.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.38 WATER CONNECTION.
   The water distribution system of any building occupied by humans as a
dwelling or place of employment within the village shall be connected directly
to the village water supply system, if available.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.39 AVAILABILITY OF VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY.
   The village water supply system shall be deemed available if a water main of
the village water supply system is within 300 feet of the nearest portion of
the property upon which the building is located.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
§ 50.40 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the village, by and through its Maintenance
Superintendent or other persons designated by the Village Council, to inspect
or use inspections to be made of all properties served by the village water
system. The frequency of inspections to eliminate such potential hazards shall
be as established from time to time by the village.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.41 POTENTIAL HAZARDS PERTAINING TO AN ABANDONED WELL ON PROPERTY.
   The Village Maintenance Superintendent or his or her designee shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time upon any property and premises served by
the village's water system for the purposes of locating abandoned wells or
potential hazards of the village's water system. Upon request of the village or
its Maintenance Superintendent, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property
so served shall furnish to said inspector any pertinent information regarding
the hazards or potential hazards and pertaining to an abandoned well on the
property involved. Refusal to provide such information or to permit inspection
when requested shall be deemed evidence of presence of hazards to the village's
water system. If a violation occurs, the village has the option to immediately
notify the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and pursue its possible
remedies under the Michigan Polluters Pay Law (PA 1982 307, as amended by PA
1990 234). Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the village from the pursuit
of such other remedies as may be provided by law.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.42 ABANDONMENT OF WELLS.
   Upon connecting to the village's water supply system, existing wells shall
be abandoned and plugged within 30 days in accordance with the requirements of
the Michigan Public Health Code (PA 1978 No. 368, as amended) and
administrative rules adopted pursuant thereto, at property owner cost.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.43 DEMOLITION.
   In the case of demolition on any properties within the village, the
properties may be searched for abandoned wells by village inspectors.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.44 NON-SUPERSEDENCE.
   This subchapter shall not supersede any state or county law or any other
lawful ordinance or law applicable to the subject matter herein.(Ord. 46,
passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.45 EMERGENCY DISCONNECT.
   If, in the opinion of the village or any of its inspectors, an immediate
health hazard is created or is being perpetuated by utilization of the water
system by any premises, said inspector shall and is hereby authorized to take
such measures as may be necessary to disconnect said premises from the village
water system without further notice or proceedings. Upon accomplishing
disconnection of said premises from the village water system, the village shall
proceed before a court of appropriate jurisdiction for issuance of an order
requiring the owner and/or occupant of said premises to show cause why said
disconnection shall not be continued until further order of the court.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.46 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   All proceedings pending and all rights and liabilities existing or incurred
at the time this subchapter takes effect are saved and may be consummated
according to the law in effect when they are commenced. This subchapter shall
not be construed to effect any prosecution pending or initiated before the
effective date on this subchapter, or initiated after the effective date on
this subchapter for an offense committed before that effective date.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating
§§ 50.37,
50.38 and
50.40 through
50.46 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $100 per day or imprisoned for not more that 90 days, or
both such fine and imprisonment. Each day during which such violation shall
occur shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 46, passed 9-8-03)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Code adopted; amendments
   
70.02   Riding of bicycles on sidewalks
   
70.03   Business District and parking lot restrictions
Cross-reference:
   Inoperable and abandoned vehicles, see §
92.02
§ 70.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Uniform Traffic Code adopted. The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages, as amended, and in accordance with Public Act 62 of
1956, being M.C.L.A. §§
257.951 through 257.954, is hereby adopted by reference as may be modified in
this chapter.
   (B)   References in code. References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages to “Governmental Unit” shall mean the Village of Fowler.
(Ord. 13, passed 9-14-81)
§ 70.02 RIDING OF BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride any bicycle on the sidewalk in the downtown business
area and such person shall dismount before entering any such sidewalk in the
downtown business area.
(Ord. 2, passed 9-14-81)
§ 70.03 BUSINESS DISTRICT AND PARKING LOT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Business District of the village, being that portion of Main
Street from the intersection of Third Street on the south to Wayne Street on
the north, shall have parking limitations of two hours from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m., and shall be signed accordingly.
   (B)   The “commuter lot,” being that parking lot owned by the village
located south of the Grand Trunk Western Railroad tracks, between Maple and
Sorrell Streets in the village, shall be primarily for the purpose of commuter
parking and shall have a parking limit of 24 hours.
   (C)   The “water tower lot” located within the village adjacent to the water
tower, owned by the village, shall be deemed customer parking and business
parking and shall have a parking limitation of two hours.
   (D)   The Village Council shall install signs at each location set forth
above, setting forth the parking limitations therein.
   (E)   No vehicle shall turn around or make a U-turn within the Business
District as herein defined.
(Ord. 10, passed 9-14-81)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ANIMALS
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Keeping of livestock prohibited
   
90.02   Animals, keeping of
   
90.03   Limitation on number of dogs and cats
   
90.04   Dog license required
   
90.05   Dogs running at large prohibited
   
90.06   Noisy dogs
   
90.07   Dangerous animals prohibited
   
90.08   Nuisance injunction
§ 90.01 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The keeping of livestock within the village is prohibited.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any public zoo
maintained under municipal supervision or to any livestock auction barn
lawfully established prior to the effective date of this section.
   (C)   Violations of this section are declared to be public nuisances and to
constitute a threat to the public health.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.02 ANIMALS, KEEPING OF.
   The keeping, housing, raising, use or care of animals is regulated by
Chapter 3, § 3.5 of the Zoning Ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.03 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   No person shall keep more than three dogs, three cats, or any
combination of three dogs and/or cats in their premises, within the village
without first obtaining a kennel license for the operation of a kennel, it
being deemed that the keeping of more than three dogs and/or cats shall be
deemed a kennel operation and subject to being licensed as a kennel.
   (B)   Animals less than four months of age shall not be counted for the
purpose of determining the number of animals kept on the premises.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.04 DOG LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, maintain, keep or harbor
any dog within the village without first procuring a license therefor as
prescribed by state law. The application for license shall state the breed,
sex, age, color and markings of the dog and the name and address of the
applicant. The application shall be accompanied by a certificate of a licensed
veterinarian showing the dog has been vaccinated against rabies.
   (B)   It is further provided that no dog shall require a license until it
has attained the age of six months.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 1-5-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.05 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any other person having the
possession, care, custody or control thereof, to permit any dog to run at large
upon the public streets, walks, parks, or other public places within the
village unless such dog shall be attached to a leash of sufficient strength to
restrain such dog in such manner as to be kept under the control of the person
accompanying it. Any such animal shall be deemed to be running at large when it
is off the premises owned or rented by its owner and is unaccompanied by its
owner or custodian.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 1-5-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.06 NOISY DOGS.
   No person shall own, keep or have in his or her possession or harbor any dog
which, by its frequent or habitual howling, yelping, or barking, shall cause a
nuisance by creating a serious annoyance or disturbance to any other individual
in the neighborhood.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 1-5-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.07 DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or possess a dangerous
animal within the village. DANGEROUS ANIMAL is defined as any wild mammal,
reptile or fowl which is not naturally tame or gentle, but is of a wild nature
or disposition and which, because of its size, vicious nature or other
characteristics, could constitute a danger to human life or property. The term
DANGEROUS ANIMAL shall also mean and include any domestic animal, reptile or
fowl which, because of its size, vicious propensity or other characteristics,
could constitute a danger to human life or property.
   (B)   Any dangerous animal which is found off the premises of its owner may
be seized by any police officer or animal control officer and immediately
turned over to the county's Department of Animal Control.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 1-5-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.08 NUISANCE INJUNCTION.
   Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and, in
addition to any other relief or penalties provided herein, the Village Attorney
may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction, upon direction of the Village
Council, for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any violation of
this chapter. Such application for relief may include the seeking of a
temporary restraining order, temporary injunction or permanent injunction, in
the discretion of the court having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 6, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 6A, passed 1-5-96)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   General Provisions
   
91.01   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
91.02   Restrictions on open burning
   
91.03   Fire hydrants: attaching hose and tampering restricted
   
91.04   Storage of trash and debris
   
91.05   Outdoor furnaces prohibited
   Public Safety and Fire Emergency Cost Recovery
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Cost recovery authorization and procedure
   
91.17   Billing and collection of assessable costs
   
91.18   Procedure for appealing assessable costs
   
91.19   Assessable costs; a lien upon the property
   
91.20   Other remedies
   
91.21   No limitation of liability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code.
      (1)   There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations
governing conditions, hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion,
the BOCA National Fire Prevention Code, most recent edition, as amended, as
published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators International,
Inc., save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or
amended herein.
      (2)   A complete copy of this code, and supplements thereto, are
available for public use and inspection ln the office of the Village Clerk.
      (3)   From and after the date on which this code shall take effect, the
provisions of the BOCA Fire Prevention Code and supplements thereto shall be
controlling within the limits of the village.
   (B)   Enforcement. The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of
the Dallas Township Fire Department and those persons designated by him or her
and serving under him or her.
   (C)   Definitions. Wherever the words “name of jurisdiction” are used in the
code herein adopted, those words shall mean the Village of Fowler and its
prescribed jurisdictional boundaries. Wherever the words “name of state” are
used, they shall mean the State of Michigan.
   (D)   Amendments to the adopted code. The code hereby adopted is amended to
the extent that when any statute of the state or any ordinance of the village
shall impose greater or more stringent requirements, the more stringent or more
restrictive requirement shall apply; that no ordinance of the village setting
forth less stringent requirements shall be operative; and the more restrictive
requirements of either document being deemed to apply.
(Ord. 27, passed 2-11-85)
§ 91.02 RESTRICTIONS ON OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   It is a nuisance and is unlawful for any person to set fire in the
streets or other open spaces within the village to any material, whether
natural or man-made except as authorized in this section.
   (B)   The operation and use of any "burner barrel," trash barrel to contain
fire or other outdoor fire disposal system within the village is prohibited.
   (C)   It is a nuisance and is unlawful for any person to burn leaves, brush,
grass clippings, rubbish, papers or houshold waste within the village.
   (D)   Cooking fires and camp fires are permitted, provided:
      (1)    They do not exceed two feet in diameter and three feet in height.
      (2)   They are in an approved patio device and at least ten feet from any
structure and no closer than six feet from any property line.
      (3)   A responsible adult is present to control the fire at all times.
      (4)   The campfire material is wood.
      (5)   The wind velocity does not exceed ten miles per hour.
   (E)   In the event a fire department response run occurs as a result of a
violation of any requirement of this section, then, regardless of whether a
citation or notice of violation is issued to anyone, the property owner shall
be liable for and be billed in an amount established by Dallas Township Fire
Department for the charges of the fire department responding to the scene.
   (F)   The Clinton County Sheriff's Department and the Dallas Township Fire
Department are authorized to enforce the provisions of this section to the
extent of their respective jurisdictions.(Ord. 45, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.03 FIRE HYDRANTS: ATTACHING HOSE AND TAMPERING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to attach a hose to
any fire hydrant in the village for the purpose of sprinkling their lawns,
washing automobiles, or for any purpose whatever.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to meddle or tamper with any fire
hydrant except in case of a fire and then only by a recognized firefighter.
(Ord. 9, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.04 STORAGE OF TRASH AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   The storage within the village of trash, garbage, or refuse in the
open, or open to the air, is prohibited.
   (B)   Trash containers in the downtown business area of the village shall be
covered.
(Ord. 45, passed 9-8-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.05 OUTDOOR FURNACES PROHIBITED.
   No person, corporation, partnership or entity shall install, use or maintain
an outdoor furnace fired by wood, corn, pellets, coal, gas, or any other type
of combustible material within the village.
(Ord. 50, passed 9-11-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PUBLIC SAFETY AND FIRE EMERGENCY COST RECOVERY
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUGS. In any case where abuse of alcohol or drugs can be proven
to have contributed to the cause of an emergency response by the jurisdiction
or their agents, the person proven to be under the influence of alcohol or
drugs shall be financially responsible for the cost of all work by the
jurisdiction or their agents.
   ASSESSABLE COSTS. Those costs for services incurred by the jurisdiction in
connection with response to a Public Safety of Fire Emergency Incident,
including, but not limited to, the actual labor and material cost of the
jurisdiction (including without limitation, employee wages, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, costs of equipment, cost of equipment operation, costs
of materials, costs of transportation, costs of material disposal, and costs of
contracted labor) whether or not the services are provided by the jurisdiction
or by a third party on behalf of the jurisdiction, service charges and
interest; attorneys fees, litigation costs, charges, fines or penalties to the
jurisdiction having authority imposed by any court or state or federal
governmental authorities.
   BOMB THREATS. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device which if discharged as threatened would violate a federal, state, or
local law.
   EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Emergency medical, public safety, police, fire, civil
defense services, OEM and Special Response Team.
   EXCESSIVE REQUESTS FOR EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Any request for emergency
assistance made to a particular location or premises if such location or
premises has requested emergency assistance more than eight times in the
proceeding 30 days.
   FALSE ALARM. Any automated or manual device designated to request or summon
emergency assistance whether such device is activated intentionally or
otherwise, in the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The
determination that there was no actual need for emergency assistance shall be
made by the incident commander responding to a request or summon for emergency
assistance. Provided, however, a false alarm shall not be deemed to have
occurred if:
      (1)   Caused by an act of God (i.e., a lightening storm); or
      (2)   (a)   It originates from a motor vehicle or building alarm system;
and
         (b)   Has not occurred more frequently than three times in a calendar
month or four times in a calendar year.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY. Any occurrence, incident,
activity, accident or emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs
or is reasonably imminent and where the Fire Chief or his or her designee has
so declared such activity, accident or emergency a hazardous material incident
or emergency.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Those elements, substances, wastes or by-products,
including, but not limited to, combustible liquid, flammable gas, explosives,
flammables, poisons, organic peroxides, oxidizers, pyophorics, unstable
reactive matter, water reactive matter, petroleum products, anti-freeze,
polychlorinated biphenyls and asbestos, which are or are potentially harmful to
the environment or human or animal life, or which pose an unreasonable or
imminent risk to life, health, or safety of persons or property, or to the
ecological balance of the environment as determined by the Fire Chief or
incidence commander.
   ILLEGAL FIRE. Subject to the jurisdiction's fire code, as amended, a fire
set or determined to have been set in violation of a federal, state, or local
law and shall include an arson fire and a fire set in violation of a "no
burning" ban or order or lack of issued permit. An ILLEGAL FIRE does not
include an unintentional fire or fire caused by an act of God (i.e., a
lightening storm).
   PUBLIC SAFETY or FIRE EMERGENCY INCIDENT.  Such things as:
      (1)   Excessive requests for emergency assistance;
      (2)   A false alarm;
      (3)   A hazardous material incident or emergency;
      (4)   An illegal fire;
      (5)   Bomb threats;
      (6)   Threats of harm to oneself or others;
      (7)   A structure fire;
      (8)   Demolition; or
      (9)   A utility line failure or any other incidents as deemed by the Fire
Chief or incident commander.
   RELEASE. Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, dumping or disposing into the
environment, including, but not limited to, the air, soil, groundwater, and
surface water.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity,
or any other legal entity responsible for public safety or fire emergency
incident or any owner, tenant, occupant, or party in control of real and
personal property from which, onto which or related to which there is a public
safety or fire emergency incident. RESPONSIBLE PARTY shall include the heirs,
estates, successors, and assigns of the entities named herein.
   STRUCTURE DEMOLITION. The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire which
must, in the opinion of the Fire Chief or his or her designee be promptly
demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
   THREATS OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS. The verbal or written threat of
physical harm to oneself or another's property which, if carried out would be a
violation of federal, state, or local law.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE. The disabling of any transmission, distribution, or
service line, cable, conduit, pipeline, wire or the like used to provide,
collect, or transport electricity, natural gas, petroleum products,
communication or electronic signals (including, but not limited to, telephone,
computer, cable television, and stereo signals or electronic impulses), water
or sanitary or storm sewage if the owner or party responsible for the
maintenance of such utility line does not respond within one hour to a request
to repair or correct such failure.
   WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Utilize biological agents, nuclear-radiological
devices, incendiary devices, chemical agents and explosives to attempt or
accomplish mass destruction through an attack or occurrence using a weapon of
mass destruction (WMD) device.
(Ord. 43, passed 4-14-03)
§ 91.16 COST RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The jurisdiction may recover all assessable costs in connection with a
public safety or fire emergency incident from any or all responsible parties
jointly or severally.
   (B)   The Public Safety Official or their designee shall determine the total
assessable costs and shall in consultation with other jurisdiction personnel
involved in responding to a public safety or fire emergency incident determine
whether to assess any, all or part of such costs against any of the responsible
parties. In making such determination, the following may be considered:
      (1)   The total assessable costs;
      (2)   The risk the public safety or fire emergency incident imposed on
the jurisdiction, its residents and their property;
      (3)   Whether there was any damage to person or property;
      (4)   Whether the public safety or fire emergency incident required
evacuation;
      (5)   The extent the public safety or fire emergency incident required an
unusual or extraordinary use of jurisdiction personnel and equipment; and
      (6)   Whether there was any damage to the environment.
   (C)   After consideration of the factors stated above, the Public Safety
Official may allocate assessable costs among and between responsible parties,
including allocating all or some of such costs jointly or severally against
more than one responsible party regardless of whether a responsible party has
other legal liability therefore, or is legally at fault.
   (D)   If the Public Safety Official determines not to assess all or part of
the assessable costs against a responsible party, such determination shall not
in any way limit or extinguish the liability of the responsible party to the
jurisdiction.(Ord. 43, passed 4-14-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.17 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   After determining assessable costs against a responsible party, the
Jurisdiction Treasurer shall mail an itemized invoice to the responsible party
at its last known address. Such invoice shall be due and payable within 30 days
of the date of mailing and any amount unpaid after such date shall bear a late
payment fee equal to 1% per month or fraction thereof that the amount due and
any previously imposed late payment fee remains unpaid. If a responsible party
shall appeal assessable costs pursuant to §
91.18, such costs, if upheld, in whole or part or in part, shall be due 30 days
from the date of determination of the appeal any late payment fees shall apply
thereafter.(Ord. 43, passed 4-14-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.18 PROCEDURE FOR APPEALING ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   Any responsible party who receives an invoice for assessable costs shall
have an opportunity to appeal to the jurisdiction having authority or their
designee to request a modification of assessable costs pursuant to the
following procedure:
   (A)   The responsible party shall request in writing a meeting with the
Manager/Superintendent/ President of the jurisdiction having authority within
seven days of the date of the invoice assessing the assessable costs. If after
the meeting with the jurisdiction or designee and the responsible party is
still not satisfied, he or she may request an opportunity to appear before the
Jurisdiction Board or Council to further request a modification of assessable
costs.
   (B)   A responsible party who desires to appear before the Jurisdiction
Board or Council shall file a written request to appear before the Jurisdiction
Board or Council with the Jurisdiction Clerk within seven calendar days of the
date of the meeting with the Manager/Superintendent/President of the
jurisdiction having authority or the designee. Upon receipt of such request,
the Jurisdiction Clerk will place the claim of the responsible party on the
agenda of the next regularly scheduled Jurisdiction Board or Council meeting,
which meeting is at least 14 calendar days after the date on which the
responsible party files the request to appear. Any filed request to appear
shall specifically identify and explain all reasons why the responsible party
believes the assessable costs should be modified. Any reason, basis or argument
for modification of assessable costs not set forth in the request to appear
shall be deemed waived by the responsible party. After a responsible party has
been given an opportunity to appear before it, the Board or Council shall
promptly determine whether to confirm, modify, or void the payment of
assessable costs invoiced.
   (C)   Failure to timely file a written request with the Manager/
Superintendent/President of the jurisdiction or to appear before the Board or
Council shall constitute a waiver of the responsible party's right to appeal
and shall further constitute the responsible party's agreement to pay the
assessable costs invoiced or as may have been modified, together with any late
payment fee.
(Ord. 43, passed 4-14-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.19 ASSESSABLE COSTS; A LIEN UPON THE PROPERTY.
   Assessable costs assessed against a responsible party not paid when due,
including late payment fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real party of the
responsible party in the jurisdiction, from which or related to which the
public safety or fire emergency incident occurred. Such lien shall be the same
character and effect as the lien created by the jurisdiction's charter for real
property taxes and shall include accrued interest and penalties. The Treasurer
shall, prior to March 1 of each year, certify to the Assessor, the fact that
such assessable costs are delinquent and unpaid. The Assessor shall then enter
the delinquent amount on the next general ad valorem tax roll as a charge
against the affected property, and the lien thereon shall be enforced in the
same manner as provided and allowed by law for delinquent and unpaid real
property taxes.
(Ord. 43, passed 4-14-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.20 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to the remedy set forth in
§ 91.19 above, the jurisdiction shall be entitled to pursue any other remedy or
may institute any appropriate action of proceeding in a court of competent
jurisdiction as permitted by law to collect assessable costs from a responsible
party.
(Ord. 43, passed 4-14-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.21 NO LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The recovery of assessable costs pursuant hereto does not limit the
liability of a responsible party under applicable local, state, or federal law.
(Ord. 43, passed 4-14-03)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Nuisances prohibited
   
92.02   Inoperable and abandoned vehicles
   
92.03   Noxious weeds and unmowed grass
Cross-reference:
   Sewer use violations as nuisance, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Public nuisances, see M.C.L.A. §§
600.3801 et seq.
§ 92.01 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nuisance defined. Whatever annoys, injures or endangers the safety,
health, comfort or repose of the public, offends public decency, interferes
with, obstructs, or renders dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake or
stream, or in any way renders the public insecure in life or property, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Public nuisances shall include but not
be limited to whatever is forbidden by any provision of this section. No person
shall commit, create or maintain any nuisance within the village limits.
   (B)   Nuisances per se. The following acts, services, apparatus and/or
structures are hereby declared to be public nuisances per se:
      (1)   The throwing, placing, depositing or leaving in any street,
highway, lane, alley, public place, square or sidewalk, or in any private place
or premises where such throwing, placing, depositing, or leaving is in the
opinion of the Village Council dangerous or detrimental to public health, or
likely to cause sickness or attract flies, insects, rodents and/or vermin, by
any person of any animal or vegetable substance, dead animals, fish, shell, tin
cans, bottles, glass, or other rubbish, dirt, excrement, filth, unclean or
nauseous water, or fluids, hay, straw, soot, garbage, swill, animal bones,
hides or horns, rotten soap, grease or tallow, offal or any other offensive
article or substance whatsoever.
      (2)   Any vehicle used for any illegal purpose.
      (3)   All obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines and newspapers.
      (4)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such occupations.
      (5)   All gambling devices.
      (6)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution, gambling houses,
houses of ill fame and bawdy houses.
      (7)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount contrary to the provisions of this
section or statute of the state.
      (8)   Any use of public streets and/or sidewalks which causes large
crowds to gather, obstructing the free use of the streets and/or sidewalks.
      (9)   All buildings, walls and other structures which have been damaged
by fire, decay, or otherwise and all excavations remaining unfilled or
uncovered for a period of 90 days or longer, and which are so situated so as to
endanger the safety of the public.
      (10)   All dangerous, unguarded excavations or machinery in any public
place, or so situated, left or operated on private property as to attract the
public.
      (11)   The owning, driving or moving upon any public streets and alleys
of trucks or other motor vehicles which are constructed or loaded so as to
permit any part of their load contents to blow, fall, or be deposited upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public or private place, or which deposits
from its wheels, tires or other parts onto the street, alley, sidewalk or other
public or private place, dirt, grease, sticky substances or foreign matter of
any kind. Provided however, that under circumstances determined by the
Supervisor of the Department of Public Works to be in the public interest, he
or she may grant persons temporary exemption from the provisions of this
divisions (B)(12) conditioned upon cleaning and correcting the violating
condition at least once daily and execution of an agreement by such person to
reimburse the village for any extraordinary maintenance expenses incurred by
the village in connection with such violation.
   (C)   Excessive noise declared nuisance. All loud or unusual noises or
sounds, and annoying vibrations which offend the peace and quiet of persons of
ordinary sensibilities, are hereby declared to be public nuisances.
(Ord. 24, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.02 INOPERABLE AND ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Open storage unlawful. It is hereby declared unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to store on, or place on, or permit to be stored on or
placed on, or allow to remain on any platted or unplatted parcel of land, a
dismantled, partially dismantled, abandoned or inoperable motor vehicle, or any
parts thereof, which platted or unplatted parcel of land is located in the
village, unless the dismantled or inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof
shall be kept in a wholly enclosed garage or other wholly enclosed structure.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLES. Shall include, without limitation, any motor vehicle
which has remained on private property for a period of 48 continuous hours or
more, without the consent of the owner or occupant of the property, or for a
period of 48 continuous hours after the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property has been revoked.
      DISMANTLED AND PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles from
which some part or parts which ordinarily are a component of such motor
vehicles have been removed or are missing.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles which, by reason of
dismantling, disrepair or other cause, are presently incapable of being
propelled under their own power and shall include, without limitation, any
vehicle which is not licensed for use upon the highways of the state for a
period in excess of 30 days, and shall also include, whether licensed or not,
any motor vehicle which is inoperative for any reason for a period in excess of
30 days. Provided, there is excepted from this definition unlicensed but fully
operative vehicles which are kept as the stock and trade of a regularly
licensed and established new or used automobile dealer. Provided further, the
time limit such vehicles may remain upon the premises of a motor vehicle repair
garage shall be a period of 90 days rather than 30 days.
      MOTOR VEHICLES. Any wheeled vehicles which are self-propelled or intended
to be self-propelled.
      PARTS OF MOTOR VEHICLES. Any commonly known parts of motor vehicles
stored in or upon premises.
      PERSON. Shall include all natural persons, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations and all associations of natural persons incorporated or
unincorporated, whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent, or
employee. All persons who violate any provision of this section, whether as
owner, occupant, lessee, agent, servant, or employee, shall except as herein
otherwise provided be equally responsible as principals.
   (C)   Cause of blight. It is hereby determined that the storage or
accumulation of dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles
within the village tends to result in blighted and deteriorated neighborhoods,
the spread of vermin and disease, the increase in criminal activity and
therefore is contrary to the public peace, safety and the general welfare of
the community.
   (D)   Abatement. The Supervisor of the Department of Public Works may
remove, or cause to be removed, any dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperable or abandoned vehicle, or parts thereof, from any platted or
unplatted parcel of land within the village after having notified, in writing,
the owner or occupant of such property of the intention to do so at least 48
hours prior to the physical removal. Such notice shall be served personally
upon the owner or occupant of such property, or may be posted in a conspicuous
place upon vacant or unoccupied property. Such dismantled, partially
dismantled, and inoperable or abandoned vehicles or parts thereof shall be
removed and disposed of in accordance with the law. Such removal by the
designated enforcement official herein shall not excuse or relieve any person
from the obligations imposed by this section to keep property free from the
storage and accumulation of dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperable or
abandoned vehicles or parts thereof, nor from the penalties set forth herein.
(Ord. 8, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicle regulations, see M.C.L.A. §§
257.252a et seq.
§ 92.03 NOXIOUS WEEDS AND UNMOWED GRASS.
   (A)   Duty of owners to cut weeds. It shall be the duty of every person
owning or occupying land within the village to cut down all Canada thistles,
milk weed, wild carrots, oxeye daisies, or other unsightly or noxious weeds
growing on the land once each month or as frequently as may be necessary to
prevent the weeds from going to seed or becoming unsightly and failure to do so
shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (B)   Duty of owners to mow grass. It shall be the duty of every person or
entity owning or occupying residential land or adjoining residential and
developed land within the village to mow the grass on their premises whenever
the grass reaches a length of eight inches or more and failure to do so shall
constitute a violation of this code, unless said person or entity shall have
devised a plan for a "natural yard" and received written permission for same
from the Village DPW or the designee. Taking into exception open draining
ditches.
   (C)   Notice to cut weeds or mow grass. 
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Village DPW or the designee to give
notice once each calendar year to every owner or occupier of any lands in the
village whereon uncut weeds are growing or unmowed grass is growing to cut the
weeds or mow the grass. This notice shall be sent by regular mail to the owner,
and to the occupant if the occupant is not the owner, and if the weeds are not
cut or the grass is not mowed within seven days of the date of mailing, or if a
written extension of this limit is not obtained from the code enforcement
officer, then the Village DPW or their designee shall cause said weeds to be
cut or said grass to be mowed.
      (2)   Subsequent to the first notice and subsequent cutting or mowing, if
the noxious weeds grow up again, or the unmowed grass again reaches the length
of eight inches, the Village DPW or his or her designee shall again, as many
times as may be necessary, cause the weeds to be cut and/or the grass to be
mowed without any further notice, and same shall be the case even if the
property owner or occupant has previously in the same year taken care of a
violation themselves.
   (D)   Village to mow grass or cut down weeds upon failure to do so. If the
owner, occupier or person having charge of any land, shall refuse or neglect to
comply with the notice to cut the weeds or mow the grass on or before the date
stated in the notice, it shall be the duty of the Village DPW, or the designee,
to cause all such grass and/or unsightly or noxious weeds to be cut down.
   (E)   Record of expenses incurred in mowing grass and in cutting down weeds.
The Village DPW or the designee shall keep an accurate account of the expenses
incurred by him or her in carrying out the above described terms and he or she
shall make a sworn statement of such account to the Village Clerk.
   (F)   Special assessment; lien on property; collection. When weeds or grass
are mowed or cut by the village under the provisions of this section, the
procedure to secure payment of the cost to the village of removal of said grass
or weeds shall be as follows: A copy of the sworn statement of said account
shall be sent by regular mail to the owner or occupier of the property, and if
said amount is not paid within 60 days or written arrangements made with the
Village DPW or the designee for an extension of time, then the following shall
occur:
      (1)   The Village DPW or their designee shall submit to the Village
Council an itemized and verified statement showing expenditures of material,
labor (including administrative expenses), equipment and any other related
expense to the village used in the cutting or mowing of the grass or weeds; and
the description of the lot, part of the lot or parcel of ground from which the
weeds or grass have been mowed or cut.
      (2)   The Council shall examine the verified statement and, if found
correct, shall direct that the expense of the mowing or cutting shall be
assessed against the property as a single lot assessment.
(Ord. 47, passed 9-8-03)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Construction of combination curbs and gutters
   
93.02   Construction and maintenance of sidewalks
Cross-reference:
   Special assessments, see §§
30.01 et seq.
   Telecommunications rights-of-way, see §§
111.01 et seq.
§ 93.01 CONSTRUCTION OF COMBINATION CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   No person shall build in and along any street in the village any curb
or gutter except such curb and gutter that is constructed of cement upon a
suitable foundation, and such curb and gutter shall be a combination curb and
gutter.
   (B)   The village shall construct or cause to be constructed all cement
combination curbs and gutters in and along the streets of the village. Such
combination curbs and gutters shall be constructed whenever, in the judgement
of the Village Council, it may become necessary to construct the same.
   (C)   Combination curbs and gutters shall not be constructed in and along
any street for a distance of less than one block (the distance between two
streets) at any one time unless the Village Council shall otherwise by
resolution determine.
   (D)   Whenever any property owner of the village shall desire to have
constructed in front of and along the street adjacent to the property owned by
him or her, he or she shall make written application to the Village Council,
and in such application, the exact location of the curb and gutter shall be
stated.
   (E)   (1)   The Village Council may order the construction of combination
curbs and gutters in and along any street or portion thereof, and the costs of
such curbs and gutters shall be assessed according to frontage by special
assessment and shall be collected in the same manner as other special
assessments. Otherwise, a property owner may pay the costs as soon as curbs and
gutters are completed, or the costs shall be paid in a period of one year with
interest at the rate of 9%.
      (2)   The property owner shall pay 80% and the village shall pay 20% of
the total costs of combination curbs and gutters.
      (3)   At the intersection of streets, the distance between the
construction of the lot lines to curb lines shall be paid for by the village.
   (F)   Combination curbs and gutters may be constructed by contract or by the
village as the Village Council may by resolution determine.
(Ord. 14, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.02 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street right-of-way designed for pedestrian
travel.
   (B)   Specifications and permits. No person shall construct, rebuild or
repair any sidewalk within the village limits except in accordance with
specifications established for such sidewalks and must first obtain a written
permit and specifications from the Village Superintendent. Only a licensed
contractor approved by the Village Superintendent may perform such work.
However, Fowler Village Department of Public Works employees retain the right
to make sidewalk installations and/or repairs as deemed necessary by said
department.
   (C)   Sidewalk specifications. Sidewalks shall not be less than four inches
in thickness and expansion joints shall be placed, including the insertion of
expansion materials. Sidewalks at driveway crossings shall be not less than six
inches in thickness. All concrete used in sidewalk construction shall, 28 days
after placement, be capable of resisting a pressure of 3,500 pounds per square
inch without failure. The Village Superintendent may establish additional
details and specifications in addition hereto and not inconsistent herewith.
   (D)   New construction. It is mandatory that any new home construction
within the village limits shall include the construction of sidewalks as
provided herein.
   (E)   Construction costs. The village will pay 50% of the construction costs
of any new, repaired or replacement sidewalks within the limits of the village,
whether adjacent to existing homes or new home construction, pursuant to
procedures to be set and established by village policy. No reimbursement or
payment by the village shall be made until a valid permit has been issued by
the Village Superintendent and payment therefor approved by the Village
Council.
   (F)   Ordering construction. No person shall permit any sidewalk which
adjoins property owned by him or her to fall into a state of disrepair or to be
unsafe. It further is provided that should the Village Superintendent deem any
part or portion of sidewalks within the village limits to require repair or
replacement, the same shall be referred to the Village Council, who then may,
by resolution, require the owners of lots and premises to build or repair
sidewalks adjacent to and abutting upon such lots and premises as designated.
When such resolution shall be adopted, the Village Clerk shall give notice
thereof to the owner of such lot or premises, requiring him or her to construct
or rebuild such sidewalks within 60 days from the date of such notice.
   (G)   Construction by the village. If the owner of such lot or premises
shall fail to build or construct any particular sidewalk as described in the
notice by the Village Council, within the time and within the manner required
herein, the Village Superintendent is hereby authorized and required to
immediately, after the expiration of the time limited for the construction or
rebuilding by the owner, cause such sidewalk to be constructed and the expense
thereof shall be charged to such premises and to the owner thereof and
collected as provided for village taxes in the village.
   (H)   Clearing of sidewalks. The occupant of every lot or premises adjoining
any street, or the owner of such lot or premises, if the same are not occupied,
shall clear all ice and snow from sidewalks adjoining such lot or premises
within the time herein required. When any such snow or ice shall fall during
daylight hours, such snow or ice shall be removed within 12 hours after
cessation. If snow or ice shall fall during the nighttime, it shall be cleared
by 6:00 p.m. on the day following.
(Ord. 15, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. 35, passed 7-21-97; Am. Ord. passed 6-13-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
   
111.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
   
112.   REFUSE COLLECTION
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Public entertainment
   
110.02   Solicitors, peddlers and hawkers
   
110.03   Licensing regulations; schedule of fees
§ 110.01 PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT.
   No person or company shall make or exhibit in this village any circus,
menagerie, play game or theatrical exhibition, opera, concert, vocal or
instrumental, or exhibit any natural or artificial curiosity or give any public
entertainment or amusement of any kind, of whatever name or nature, to which
admission is charged or received without having first obtained a license so to
do as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 12, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.02 SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the public against
criminal activity, including fraud and burglary, minimize the unwelcome
disturbance of citizens and the disruptions of privacy, and to preserve the
public health, safety and welfare by regulating and controlling solicitors,
peddlers and hawkers.
   (B)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person either as
principal agent or representative to engage in the business of soliciting,
peddling, or hawking as herein defined within the village without first having
obtained a license as provided in this section. Licenses issued for such
activity shall be available for review when requested by the owner or occupant
of the premises and/or by a public official.
   (C)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, solicitors, peddlers, and
hawkers shall be defined as follows:
      HAWKER. Any person offering merchandise or services from a fixed place
not within a building.
      PEDDLER. Any person offering merchandise or services for sale by going
door to door or by passing house to house, not including regular route delivery
persons delivering products on a continuous order basis.
      SOLICITOR. Any person offering merchandise or services for sale by sample
or description for delivery at a future time, going door to door or passing
from house to house, not including representatives of non-profit corporations
organized under the laws of the State of Michigan or other public purpose
organizations.
   (D)   Application for license and exemption.
      (1)   Application to be made on a form provided by the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Application fee shall be established by the Village Council.
      (3)   The license shall be valid for a period of one year from date of
issuance.
      (4)   The Village Clerk shall determine which applicants do not require a
license and may be exempted based on the definition of non-profit or other
public purpose under this section.
      (5)   Appeals to a decision of the Village Clerk under this section shall
be made to the Village Council.
   (E)   Prohibited conduct. The following conduct by a hawker, peddler, or
solicitor is prohibited:
      (1)   Entering a private residence under pretenses other than peddling or
soliciting.
      (2)   Remaining in a private residence or on the premises after the owner
or occupant has requested such person to leave.
      (3)   Entering private residence or private building when a "no peddling"
or "no soliciting" sign has been displayed on such premises.
      (4)   Peddling, hawking or soliciting before 10:00 a.m., after sunset, on
a Sunday, or on a state or national holiday.
(Ord. 12, passed 9-14-81; Am. Ord. passed 10-26-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 LICENSING REGULATIONS; SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   License application. Any person or persons desiring or exercising or
engaging in any calling mentioned in this chapter shall make an application to
the Village Clerk for a license therefor, and shall pay the Village Clerk an
application fee of $.50. The application shall state the class of license
desired, the period for which the license should be issued and, if license is
issued as requested, the applicant shall pay to the Village Clerk the necessary
license fees at the time of receiving the license. If the amount of the license
fee is not covered by this chapter, the Village Council shall fix the amount of
such fee by resolution and the applicant shall pay to the Village Clerk the
amount fixed.
   (B)   Term, transferability, revocation. No license shall be granted under
this section for a term beyond the first Monday in June next following.
Licenses issued hereunder shall not be transferable or assignable. The license
fee for yearly, monthly, or weekly license shall be the same for any part or
portion thereof. Any license or licenses granted under the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to revocation by the Village Council for cause shown
after due notice to the licensee with opportunity to be heard, and whenever the
public interests of the village shall so require, the Village Council shall
have authority to revoke any license or licenses granted hereunder.
   (C)   Schedule of license fees. The following schedule of license fees shall
prevail unless otherwise changed by resolution of the Village Council:
      (1)   Investigation fee, $5
      (2)   License fee per month, $10
      (3)   Circus fee per day, $50
      (4)   Amusement rides per day, $5
(Ord. 12, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 111: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   Rights-of-Way
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Permit required
   
111.04   Issuance of permit
   
111.05   Construction/engineering permit
   
111.06   Conduit or utility poles
   
111.07   Route maps
   
111.08   Repair of damage
   
111.09   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
111.10   Modification of existing fees
   
111.11   Savings clause
   
111.12   Use of funds
   
111.13   Annual report
   
111.14   Cable television operators
   
111.15   Existing rights
   
111.16   Compliance
   
111.17   Reservation of police powers
   
111.18   Authorized village officials
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 93
RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this subchapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002) ("Act") and other
applicable law, and to ensure that the village qualifies for distributions
under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and complying with the
Act.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight
Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002), as amended from time to time.
   AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to Section 3 of the Act.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumer
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term “Commission”
in the Act.
   PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
subchapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in
the village for its telecommunications facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a
federal, state, or private right-of-way.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in section 332(d) of part I of title III
of the Communications Act of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
   TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Those
terms as defined in Section 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 PA
179, M.C.L.A. §484.2102. Telecommunication provider does not include a person
or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed commercial
mobile radio service as defined in Section 332(d) of part I of the
Communications Act of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, or service
provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose of the
Act and this subchapter only, a provider also includes all of the following:
      (1)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way.
      (3)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Fowler.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL.  The Village Council of the Village of Fowler or its
designee. This subchapter does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the Village Council.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
§ 111.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public right-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a
permit pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunication providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with Section 6(1) of the
Act. A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with
the Village Clerk, one copy of the Village Council or President and one copy
with the Village Attorney. Applications shall be complete and include all
information required by the Act, including without limitation a route map
showing the location of the provider's existing and proposed facilities in
accordance with Section 6(5) of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, 1976 PA 442, M.C.L.A. §§15.231 through
15.246, pursuant to Section 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider
shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The Village Manager may request an applicant
to submit such additional information which the Village Council deems
reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such
requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional
information established by the Village Council. If the village and the
applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional information requested
by the village, the village or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided
in Section 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to Section 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the village under Section 251 of
the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 PA 179, M.C.L.A. §484.2251 and
authorizations or permits issued by the village to telecommunications providers
prior to the 1995 enactment of Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications
Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of this subchapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in public right-of-way in the village as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under
Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 PA 179, M.C.L.A.
§484.2251, shall submit to the village an application for a permit in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter. Pursuant to Section 5(3)
of the Act, a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
division is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under
division (D) above. A provider under this division shall be given up to an
additional 180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the
Authority, as provided in Section 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Village Council. Pursuant to Section 15
(3) of the Act, the Village Council shall approve or deny an application for a
permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an
application for a permit under
§ 111.03(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the village. Pursuant to
Section 6(6) of the Act, the Village Council shall notify the MPSC when the
Village Council has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding
the date on which the application was filed and the date on which permit was
granted or denied. The Village Council shall not unreasonably deny an
application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the Village
Council shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with Sections 6(1),
6(2) and 15 of the Act.
   (C) Conditions. Pursuant to Section 15(4) of the Act, the Village Council
may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the Village Council may require that a bond
be posted by the telecommunication provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider's access and use.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.05 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the village without first
obtaining a construction or engineering permit as required for construction
within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be charged for such a
construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.06 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to Section 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this subchapter does not give a
telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.07 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to Section 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the village, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
village. The route maps should be in paper format unless and until the
Commission determines otherwise, in accordance with Section 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.08 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to Section 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider
undertaking an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the village, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair
all damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below,
or within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-
of-way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.09 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the village set
forth in
§ 111.03(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities
in the village's public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to
the Authority pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.10 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of Section 13 (1) of the Act, the
village hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002 the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(4) of
the Act, the village also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers
with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the village's
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under Section
8 of the Act. The village shall provide each telecommunications provider
affected by the fee with a copy of the chapter, in compliance with the
requirement of Section 13(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged
telecommunications providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act,
or which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby
declared to be contrary to the village's policy and intent, and upon
application by a provider or discovery by the village, shall be promptly
refunded as having been charged in error.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.11 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to Section 13(5) of the Act, if Section 8 of the Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under
§ 111.10 above shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.12 USE OF FUNDS. 
   Pursuant to Section 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the village
from the Authority shall be used by the village solely for rights-of-way
related purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by
the village from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund
and/or the Local Street Fund maintained by the village under Act No. 51 of the
Public Acts of 1951.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.13 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to Section 10(5) of the Act, the Village Council shall file an
annual report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.14 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to Section 13(6) of the Act, the village shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.15 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein
with respect to fees, this subchapter shall not affect any existing rights that
a telecommunications provider or the village may have under a permit issued by
the village or under a contract between the village and a telecommunications
provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.16 COMPLIANCE.
   The village hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
section is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose. The
village shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act,
including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information of Act,
1976 PA 442, M.C.L.A. §§15.231 and 215.246, as provided in
§ 111.03(C);
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with
§ 111.03(F);
   (C)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with
§ 111.03(G);
   (D)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunication provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the village, in accordance
with
§ 111.04(A);
   (E)   Notifying the MPSC when the village has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with
§ 111.04(A);
   (F)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with
§ 111.04(A);
   (G)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in
§ 111.04(B);
   (H)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with
§ 111.04(C);
   (I)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunication provider which exceeds the
reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with
§ 111.04(D);
   (J)   Not charging any telecommunication providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with
§ 111.05;
   (K)   Providing each telecommunication provider affected by the village's
right-of-way fees with a copy of this subchapter, in accordance with
§ 111.10;
   (L)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with
§ 111.13; and
   (M)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with
§ 111.14.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.17 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to Section 15(2) of the Act, this subchapter shall not limit the
village's right to review and approve a telecommunication provider's access to
an ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the village's authority to
ensure and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.18 AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Village Council or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized village officials to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal
chapter violations bureau) for violations under the subchapter as provided by
the village code.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction. A
violation of this chapter shall be a violation of the village code. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to limit the remedies available to the village
in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 41, passed 11-8-02)
CHAPTER 112: REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Compliance required
   
112.03   Charges for service
   
112.04   Outside refuse
   
112.05   Scavenging of refuse
   
112.06   Removal of refuse; license required
   
112.07   Council may grant a franchise
   
112.08   Disposal of refuse
   
112.09   Type and quality of containers
   
112.10   Collection day; hours; holidays
   
112.11   Vacancies
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Other Public Works, see
Title V
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CONSTRUCTION and/or DEMOLITION MATERIALS.  Waste materials resulting from
the construction or demolition of structures or buildings, and include
materials such as concrete blocks, brick, broken concrete, plaster, shingles,
tile, lumber, wire and other similar materials and debris, and waste
accumulated from land clearings, roads, streets, sidewalks and excavations.
   HAULING, TRANSPORTING and HANDLING.  The collection, hauling and/or
transportation of any materials regulated by the provisions of this chapter in
or upon the streets and public rights-of-way within the village.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL UNIT. An apartment building designed for occupancy by
more than four families.
   OWNER-OCCUPANT. Any owner, occupant, lessee, tenant, person, corporation,
partnership, association, firm and any other legal entity or entities, who have
control over any building or structure or occupy such building or structure
within the village. For the purposes of this chapter the primary and initial
responsibility for compliance with this chapter shall be on the owner-occupant
who is actually occupying the premises with the ultimate responsibility to be
placed upon the legal owner, but such responsibility for enforcement and
compliance shall be several as well as joint.
   REFUSE. Garbage, rubbish, trash or recyclable materials and includes any
combination of them.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A single-family residential dwelling unit, which
presupposes one family occupying a home with cooking and living quarters, a
mobile home or trailer, one-half of a duplex, and one of four or fewer units in
a single building, which may or may not be an apartment residence above a
business establishment.
   STORAGE.  The accumulation of materials regulated by the provisions of this
chapter which are awaiting final collection, transportation and disposal.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
§ 112.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is a violation for the owner-occupant of any building, property or
premises within the village to dispose of, store, collect, haul or transport,
any refuse except in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The owner-occupant of multiple residential units, business, commercial
or industrial establishments within the village shall make independent
arrangements for refuse collection. A special point of pick-up may be approved
by the village Department of Public Works Supervisor for each multiple
residential unit complex.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.03 CHARGES FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The owner-occupant having control over a residential unit shall be
charged a user fee at a rate for refuse collection and disposal as established
from time to time by resolution of the Village Council as determined by
contract with the licensed waste hauler.
   (B)   The charges for refuse collection and disposal shall be billed
quarterly by the village. The charge per residential unit is based upon the
type of service option selected by the owner-occupant.
   (C)   The owner-occupant may select from the following service options:
      (1)   The bag tag program, which has a charge per tag. Each bag along
with its contents to be removed by the hauler must bear a tag. A tag may be
used only once. Tags may be purchased from the village.
      (2)   The family program, which allows up to six untagged bags per week
to be removed from a residential unit.
      (3)   The cart program, which includes a 90-gallon poly-cart provided by
the hauler, plus up to three untagged bags per week.
      (4)   Once per month curbside recycling of materials in a tub furnished
by the hauler for designated items, provided that 50% or more of the owner-
occupants of residential units subscribe to the service.
   (D)   The village is authorized to collect delinquent refuse collection and
disposal charges by adding them to the tax bills and imposing liens against the
property of the delinquent owner-occupants in the amounts owed.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.04 OUTSIDE REFUSE.
   No person who is not an owner-occupant shall bring any refuse into the
village and place it in any receptacle, whether furnished by the licensed waste
hauler, the village, or by others, nor shall any person deposit, place,
scatter, bury or burn any refuse upon private or public property premises
within the village, in contravention of this chapter or the fire prevention
code, or the nuisance regulations code. Refuse must be pertinent to use of the
premises where it is disposed of by the owner-occupant.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.05 SCAVENGING OF REFUSE.
   No person shall scavenge refuse left for disposal, and no person shall
damage or destroy containers of refuse placed for storage.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.06 REMOVAL OF REFUSE; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall collect, haul, transport and/or remove refuse from
residential units within the village unless such entity has been first issued a
license by the village to do so, except that an owner-occupant may remove, or
may arrange to have removed by others, construction and/or demolition
materials.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.07 COUNCIL MAY GRANT A FRANCHISE.
   The Village Council shall in its discretion grant a franchise and license to
a person, corporation, partnership or firm for the hauling, transporting and
handling of refuse from residential units within the village. The Village
Council may use the competitive bidding process for such purpose and shall make
its selection based upon the capability, performance and bid price offered by
the contractor. The village may license the contractor pursuant to a written
contract for a term to be determined by the Village Council, and may renew such
contract with or without seeking competitive bids. The village may terminate
the contract for material breach by the contractor.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.08 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   No person shall keep refuse for collection in quantities greater than
a week’s accumulation typical of residential units. Refuse of more than one
residential unit, or nonresidential unit shall not be brought to another
residential unit for collection. Refuse containers shall not be left at the
collection site or be visible from the front of the premises on any day other
than the collection day.
   (B)   No person shall place construction and/or demolition materials for
collection by the village’s licensed hauler. The owner-occupant having such
materials shall make other arrangements for their disposal.
   (C)   All refuse must be stored for collection in a container of the type
and quality as specified in §
112.09.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.09 TYPE AND QUALITY OF CONTAINERS.
   Every owner-occupant of any residential unit shall place refuse for
collection by the village licensed hauler as follows:
   (A)   Refuse shall be stored in approved bags or containers for collection
once each week on the day of the week published by the village for the
collection of refuse.
   (B)   Refuse containers shall be either supplied by the hauler for the
selected service type or placed in durable plastic garbage bags.
   (C)   Refuse containers shall be placed at a position on the premises which
is near the public street contiguous to the front yard of the premises, and
where practicable, not farther than five feet from the traveled portion of the
roadway. Refuse containers shall not be placed upon a public sidewalk. Owner-
occupants of apartments located above business establishments whose landlords
have not made arrangements for refuse removal from an apartment may place their
containers adjacent to the container of the business establishment.
   (D)   The maximum weight of a bag or container when filled for collection
shall not exceed 50 pounds, including the weight of the container. The weight
of a poly cart and its contents shall not exceed 200 pounds.
   (E)   All refuse containing sharp objects shall be sufficiently wrapped so
as to prevent any injury to the collector of such refuse by protrusion through
the container.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.10 COLLECTION DAY; HOURS; HOLIDAYS.
   Refuse collection shall occur on Tuesday of each week, between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Contractor recognizes the following major holidays: New
Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas day. Collections scheduled on the observed holidays and the rest of
the week following the holiday will be delayed by one day.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.11 VACANCIES.
   It shall be the duty of any owner-occupant to notify the village if the
premises are being vacated between billing periods and to pay for any service
rendered during a partial month as though the service were rendered for the
entire month. It shall be the further duty of any owner-occupant to contact the
village in order to substitute the name of a successor owner-occupant.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, subject to a maximum fine of $500 and 90 days in jail, in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. - - , passed 7-11-05)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Injury of shade trees prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Animal control regulations, see
Chapter 90
   Fire hydrants: attaching hose and tampering restricted, see §
91.03
   Restrictions on open burning and the storage of trash and debris, see §
91.02
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 12 years shall loiter or congregate in or on
any public street, highway, park, vacant lot, alley, plaza, or other place open
to the general public within the village limits between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m..
   (B)   No minor between the ages of 12 years and 16 years shall loiter, idle,
or congregate in or on any public street, highway, park, vacant lot, alley,
plaza, or other place open to the general public within the village limits
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on the day immediately
following.
   (C)   Any person of the age of 16 years or over assisting, aiding, abetting,
allowing, permitting or encouraging any minor under the age of 16 to violate
any of the provisions of divisions (A) or (B) of this section may be found
responsible as an aider or abettor and subject to penalties as set forth
herein.
   (D)   Any violation of this section shall be deemed a civil infraction as
defined by M.C.L.A. §
600.113 and shall be punishable by a civil fine of not more than $100, plus
costs, or in lieu of imposing a civil fine as herein provided, the court having
jurisdiction may, in its discretion, provide other penalties such as screening,
community service and other penalties as provided by law.
   (E)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian, or an adult
specified by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by a
parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (3)   Abroad on the streets, sidewalks or other public places of the
village because of a bona-fide emergency;
      (4)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
      (5)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event; or
         (c)   Interstate travel;
      (6)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (7)   Married, or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 33, passed 12-12-93)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state curfew restrictions, see M.C.L.A. §§
722.751 et seq.
§ 130.02 INJURY OF SHADE TREES PROHIBITED.
   (A)    TREE or SHRUB. Any tree or shrub belonging to the village, or any
tree or shrub located on public property, or any tree or shrub located within
the public right-of-way.
   (B)   No person shall break, injure, mutilate, kill or destroy any tree or
shrub, or set any fire within 25 feet of any tree, or permit any fire or the
heat therefrom to injure any portion of any tree. No toxic chemicals or other
injurious materials shall be allowed to seep, drain or be emptied on or near
any tree.
   (C)   No excavations or driveways shall be placed within five feet of an
existing tree so as to damage the tree during construction without first
obtaining the permission of the Village Superintendent.
(Ord. 5, passed 9-14-81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   SUBDIVISION AND LAND DIVISION REGULATIONS
   
152.   ZONING CODE
   
153.   VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Exemption from State Construction Code reversed
§ 150.01 EXEMPTION FROM STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE REVERSED.
   Due to the repeal of the Building Code of the village, which had been
established by Ordinance 63, and pursuant to Public Act 442 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §
125.1508, the village's previous exemption from the State Construction Code is
hereby reversed.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-14-81)
Cross-reference:
   Repeal of all ordinances adopted prior to September 14, 1981, see §
10.13(A)
Statutory reference:
   Reversal of exemption from the State Construction Code, see M.C.L.A. §
125.1508(5)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION AND LAND DIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Scope
   
151.04   Legal basis
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Pre-preliminary plat
   
151.07   Filing of preliminary plat with Planning Commission
   
151.08   Data required for preliminary plat
   
151.09   Preliminary plat review by Planning Commission
   
151.10   Preliminary plat review by Village Council
   
151.11   Final approval of the preliminary plat by the Village Council
   
151.12   Final plat procedure
   
151.13   Data required for final plat
   
151.14   Review of the final plat by the Planning Commission
   
151.15   Review of the final plat by the Village Council
   
151.16   Required improvements
   
151.17   Guarantee of completion of required improvements
   
151.18   Design standards
   
151.19   Easements and utilities
   
151.20   Underground wiring
   
151.21   Blocks
   
151.22   Public walkways
   
151.23   Public reservations
   
151.24   Lots
   
151.25   Non-residential subdivisions
   
151.26   Plat restrictions
   
151.27   Land division or transfer
   
151.28   Land Division Act
   
151.29   Guarantee of completion of required improvements by applicant
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the Subdivision and Land Division Ordinance of
the Village of Fowler.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the division of land
within the corporate limits of the village, in order to promote the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, and the general welfare of the
inhabitants of the village, to provide a means for carrying out the
responsibilities of the village relative to the platting of land under the laws
of the state, and to provide for the orderly growth and harmonious development
of the village, consistent with the Community Development Plan and the zoning
chapter; to secure adequate traffic circulation through coordinated street
systems so as to lessen congestion on the streets and highways; to insure
adequate provisions for water, drainage and sanitary sewer facilities, and
other health requirements; to achieve the safety and welfare on individual
lots; and to provide logical and reasonable procedures for the achievement of
these purposes.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
§ 151.03 SCOPE. 
   These regulations shall not apply to any lot forming a part of a subdivision
created or recorded prior to the effective date of this chapter. Nor is it in
any way intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way impair or interfere
with existing and unrepealed provisions of other laws, or with private
restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or other private agreement,
or with the land to which the Village is a party.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
§ 151.04 LEGAL BASIS.
   These regulations are enacted pursuant to the statutory authority granted by
the Municipal Planning Act (Act 285 Mich. P.A. 1931, as amended), and the Land
Division Act (Act 288 Mich. P.A. 1967. as amended).
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning herein given:
   ALLEY.  A public or private right-of-way shown on a plat which provides
secondary access to a lot, block, or parcel of land.
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
limited liability company, trust, or combination of any of them that holds an
ownership interest in land whether recorded or not.
   BLOCK. A parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways, streets,
streams, railroad, right- of-way, a park, etc., or a combination thereof.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PLAN.  The Village of Fowler Community Development
Plan prepared, adopted and amended pursuant to Act 285 of the Public Acts of
1931 as amended, which is the “Master Plan” referred to in §
153.04.
   CROSSWALK. A right of way, dedicated to public use, which crosses a block to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   EASEMENT.  A grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by others for
specific uses or purposes, and shall be designated as “public” or “private”
depending on the nature of the user and in conformance with the Land Division
Act.
   EXEMPT SPLIT. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators,
legal representatives, successors or assigns that does not result in one or
more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent; provided all resulting
parcels are accessible for vehicular travel and utilities from existing public
roads through existing adequate roads or easements or through areas owned by
the owner of the parcel that can provide such access.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Village Council of the Village of Fowler.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Include grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, sidewalks,
street lighting, crosswalks, water mains and lines, fire hydrants, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, detention and retention ponds, street trees, culverts,
bridges, utilities, and other additions to the natural state of land which
increases its value, utility, or habitability.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land which is described and
found in a recorded plat.
   OUTLOT. When included within the boundary of a recorded plat, means a lot
set aside for purposes other than a development site, park, or other land
dedicated to public use or reserved to private use.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Village Planning Commission as established for the
Village of Fowler.
   PLAT.  A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT.  A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision submitted to an approving authority for purposes of preliminary
consideration.
      (2)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision prepared and
certified as to its accuracy by a licensed professional surveyor. The FINAL
PLAT map shall meet the requirements of the Land Division Act of 1967, as
amended, and be acceptable for recording in accordance with that Act, or
succeeding Acts.
      (3)   REPLAT. The process of changing, or the map or plat which changes,
the boundaries of a recorded subdivision plat or part thereof. The legal
dividing of an outlot within a recorded subdivision plat without changing the
exterior boundaries of the outlot is not a replat.
   PROPRIETOR. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
limited liability company, trust, or any combination of any of them, that holds
an ownership interest in land, whether recorded or not.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Land dedicated or reserved for public use. It includes
parks, parkways, recreation areas, school sites, community or public building
sites, and other public spaces.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. All persons, firms, corporations, co-partnerships, or
municipal or other public authority providing gas, electricity, water, steam,
telephone, sewer, transportation, or other services of a similar nature.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A public or private strip of land acquired or utilized by
reservation, dedication, easement, prescription, purchase, or condemnation and
permanently established for the passage of persons, vehicles, railroads, water,
utility lines, and similar uses.
   SETBACK LINE.  The line delineating the minimum required horizontal distance
measured from the front, side, or rear lot lines, as the case may be, which
describes an area termed the “setback” on a lot or parcel required by the
Zoning Ordinance.
   STREET. A dedicated public or private right-of-way, which provides vehicular
access to adjacent properties whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, lane, or however otherwise designated
comprising all the land between right-of-way lines whether improved or
unimproved, and may include pavement, curbs, gutters, shoulders, sidewalks,
parking areas, lawn areas, and other areas within the right-of-way lines.
      (1)   LOCAL STREET.  A street supplementary to a major street or
collector street intended to serve the local needs of the neighborhood and of
limited continuity used primarily as access to abutting residential properties,
and as so classified by the village.
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC.  A street having one terminus open for vehicular or
pedestrian access and the other terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET or SECONDARY STREET.  A street intended to serve
as a major means of access from minor streets to major thoroughfares and as so
classified by the village.
      (4)   MAJOR STREET.  An arterial street of great continuity which is
intended to serve as a large volume traffic-way for both the immediate
municipal area and the region beyond, and as so classified by the village.
      (5)   HALF STREET. A street having less than the required right-of-way
width for a street of full width as required by this Chapter.
      (6)   TURN-AROUND.  A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turn- around.
   SUBDIVIDER or DEVELOPER. An individual, firm, association, syndication, co-
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, trust, or other legal
entity commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a subdivision of
land.
   SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract
of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose
of sale, or lease of more than one year, or of building development, that
results in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent and that
is not exempted from the platting requirements of the Land Division Act by
Sections 108 and 109. SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION does not include a property
transfer between two or more adjacent parcels, if the property taken from one
parcel is added to an adjacent parcel; and any resulting parcel shall not be
considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to the requirements of
the Land Division Act, this chapter and other chapters of the village.
   TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP.  A map showing existing physical characteristics with
contour lines at sufficient intervals to permit determination of proposed
grades and drainage.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
§ 151.06 PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The subdivider or developer may, at their option, present a conceptual
representation of the entire proposed subdivision to the Planning Commission
for information and feedback. The Planning Commission is not required to vote
to approve or deny the proposal but may give the developer preliminary
recommendations on the proposed subdivision. Recommendations at this stage
shall not imply approval at later stages.
   (B)   The following items are required for submission of a pre-preliminary
plat:
      (1)   A completed application form;
      (2)   Lot sizes and lot dimensions;
      (3)   Street layout;
      (4)   Zoning of the property within the enclosed plat;
      (5)   Drainage patterns;
      (6)   Proposed location of water and sewer lines; and
      (7)   Payment of the fee established by village fee schedule.
   (C)   The subdivider or developer shall submit ten copies of the pre-
preliminary plat to the Village Clerk at least 30 days prior to the meeting at
which the Planning Commission shall review the plat. Village staff shall review
the plat and provide written comments to the Planning Commission. The developer
shall be provided comments from the Commission and staff regarding the pre-
preliminary plat.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.07 FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLAT WITH PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Before a preliminary plat is submitted to the Village Council, it
shall first receive the recommendations of the Planning Commission in
conformance with the following regulations:
      (1)   The subdivider, or developer, shall submit a complete preliminary
plat package to the Village Clerk at least 20 days prior to the regular
Planning Commission meeting at which he or she is scheduled to appear.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall act upon the preliminary plat within
30 days of its regular meeting unless the subdivider agrees to an extension of
time in writing.
   (B)   In filing the preliminary plat package, the subdivider shall submit
the following;
      (1)   Ten copies of an application form for a preliminary plat review;
      (2)   Ten copies of a complete preliminary plat; and
      (3)   Payment of the fee as established by village fee schedule.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.08 DATA REQUIRED FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Proposed name of subdivision.
   (B)   Location by legal description.
   (C)   Names and addresses of the proprietor and the surveyor, and the seal
thereof, who designed the subdivision layout.
   (D)   Date, north point, and scale (scale of the preliminary plat shall be
one inch equals 100 feet).
   (E)   Layout of streets including proposed names, rights-of-way widths, and
connections to adjoining platted streets, and easements, public walkways, lot
lines within the plat, and easements, and street rights-of-way on land within
200 feet of the proposed plat, and adjoining sidewalks.
   (F)   Topography drawn as contours with an interval of not more than two
feet. Where existing ground surface will remain substantially unchanged,
proposed grades of streets will be shown by superimposed contours in a
characteristic clearly distinguishable from the existing ground contours. Where
substantial alteration of existing ground surface is proposed, a separate
contour map shall show the proposed revised ground surface and street grades.
   (G)   Layout, numbers, and dimensions of lots, including building setback
lines showing dimensions, and a closed boundary. If any outlots are proposed in
the plat, the specific purpose of each outlot shall be indicated.
   (H)   Indication of the proposed uses of parcels to be dedicated or set
aside for public use, or for the use of the property owners in the subdivision,
or lands set aside for future street connections.
   (I)   An indication of the system proposed for sewage disposal by a method
approved by the Michigan Department of Health, the Clinton County Health
Department, and the Village Council.
   (J)   An indication of the storm drainage proposed by a method approved by
the Village Council and, if involving County drains, the proposed drainage
shall be acceptable to the Clinton County Drain Commissioner.
   (K)   In the case where the proprietor intends to subdivide a given area and
to begin only with a portion of the total area, the preliminary plat shall
include a proposed general layout for the entire area. The part which is
proposed to be subdivided first shall be clearly superimposed upon the overall
plan in order to illustrate clearly the method of development, which the
proprietor intends to follow. Each subsequent plat shall follow the same
procedure until the entire area controlled by the proprietor is subdivided.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.09 PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The proposed preliminary plat shall be placed on the agenda of the
next regular Planning Commission meeting following the submission of a complete
preliminary plat package, but no less than 20 days after the date of
submission. Should any required data be omitted, the proprietor shall be
notified in writing of the specific data required, and the Planning Commission
shall delay further action until the data is received.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall recommend approval, conditional approval
or rejection of the preliminary plat. The Planning Commission shall review the
preliminary plat in the following manner:
      (1)   All details of the proposed preliminary plat shall be reviewed with
reference to the requirements of the Zoning Chapter, the various elements of
the Community Development Plan, and the design standards set forth in this
chapter. The Planning Commission may, at its discretion, transmit copies of the
preliminary plat to the Village Engineer for review. The Planning Commission
shall transmit copies of the preliminary plat to all Village departments
concerned with the development, and may transmit a copy to the Fowler School
Board for review and recommendation.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission via the Village
Clerk’s office, to send notice by registered mail to the name and address of a
person noted on the plat to whom notice of a hearing shall be sent and similar
notice to property owners immediately adjacent to the property to be platted,
of presentment of the preliminary plat and the time and place of a hearing
before the Planning Commission to consider the preliminary plat, as provided in
Section 15 of Act 285 of 1931 (M.C.L.A. §
125.45). The notice shall be sent not less than five days before the date fixed
therefor.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plat within 60
days after its submission, in sufficient time to permit the Village Council to
act within the time limit required by Section 112 of the Land Division Act of
1967, which is 90 days from the date the preliminary plat is filed with the
Village Clerk.
         (a)   Should the recommendation be a conditional approval and
therefore, tentative, and if the proprietor shall in writing have waived the
time requirement set forth by this chapter, the preliminary plat shall not be
forwarded to the Village Council until the conditions have been satisfied by
the proprietor. The revised preliminary plat shall be marked a revision and
shall follow the filing procedure set forth in this chapter.
         (b)   Should the Planning Commission recommend rejection of the
preliminary plat, it shall record the reasons in the minutes of that meeting. A
copy of the minutes and all copies of the preliminary plat shall be forwarded
to the Village Council.
         (c)   Should the Planning Commission find that all conditions have
been met satisfactorily, it shall recommend approval of the preliminary plat.
The Chairperson or Clerk of the Planning Commission shall make a notation to
that effect on each copy of the preliminary plat, returning one copy to the
proprietor, forwarding four copies to the Village Council via the Village
Clerk’s office, and retaining one copy for its files.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
 Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.10 PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Village Council shall not review a preliminary plat until it has
received a recommendation on the plat from the Planning Commission. Following
the receipt of such recommendations, the Village Council shall consider the
preliminary plat at a meeting at which the matter is placed on the regularly
scheduled meeting agenda. Such meeting shall be held within 30 days of the date
of the regular Planning Commission meeting at which the preliminary plat was
considered, except that the entire review process of the Planning Commission
and the Village Council, barring an extension agreed to in writing by the
proprietor, shall not exceed a period of 90 days from the date of submission by
the proprietor to the Village Clerk, to the date of approval or rejection by
the Village Council.
   (B)   Should the Village Council issue tentative approval of the preliminary
plat, it shall be deemed to confer upon the proprietor for a period of one year
from the date, approval of lot sizes, lot orientation, and street layout. Such
tentative approval may be extended if applied for by the proprietor and granted
by the Village Council in writing.
   (C)   Should the Village Council reject the preliminary plat, it shall
record the reasons for such action in the minutes of the meeting at which the
preliminary plat was rejected, and notify the proprietor in writing of such
action with its reasons.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.11 FINAL APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAT BY THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.  
   The proprietor shall submit to the Village Council, via the Village Clerk,
copies of the preliminary plat approved by the reviewing authorities, required
by Sections 112 through 119 of the Land Division Act which may include the
Clinton County Road Commission, the Clinton County Drain Commissioner, the
Michigan Department of Transportation, the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources, the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and the Mid-
Michigan Health Department, the Clinton County Plat Board, and the public
utilities serving the area for informational purposes.
   (A)   The Village Council shall review the preliminary plat at its next
meeting, or within 20 days from the date of submission, and approve it if the
proprietor has met all conditions required for approval of the preliminary
plat, including approvals of the statutory reviewing authorities.
   (B)   The Village Council shall instruct the Village Clerk to notify the
proprietor of approval or rejection in writing and, if rejected, to give the
reasons.
   (C)   The Village Council shall instruct the Village Clerk to note all
proceedings relative to the preliminary plat in the minutes of the meeting,
which minutes shall be open for public inspection.
   (D)   Final approval of the preliminary plat under this section shall confer
upon the proprietor for a period of two years from the date of approval, the
conditional right that the general terms and conditions under which preliminary
plat approval was granted will not be changed. The two-year period may be
extended if applied for by the proprietor and granted by the Village Council in
writing. Written notice of an extension shall be sent by the Village Council
via the Village Clerk’s office to all approving authorities.
   (E)   After receiving final approval of the preliminary plat but before
proceeding with the construction of any public improvements the proprietor
shall submit four copies of complete street, street lighting, water, storm, and
sanitary sewer plans, and specifications prepared and sealed by an engineer
registered in this State. The method indicated for the disposal of sewage shall
have the approval of the Michigan Department of Health, the Mid-Michigan Health
Department, and the Village Council and the proposed method of storm drainage
involving County drains shall have the approval of the Clinton County Drain
Commissioner.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.12 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE.
   Following final approval of the preliminary plat by the Village Council, the
proprietor shall cause a survey and five true plats thereof to be made by a
registered land surveyor.
   (A)   A final plat shall not be accepted after the date of expiration of the
final preliminary plat approval.
   (B)   The proprietor shall submit a final plat to the Village Clerk at least
ten days prior to the regular meeting of the Planning Commission at which the
proprietor is scheduled to appear. In filing, the proprietor shall submit the
following:
      (1)   Fees as established by resolution of the Village Council.
      (2)   Five linen backed copies of the proposed final plat.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
 Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.13 DATA REQUIRED FOR FINAL PLAT.
   The final plat shall comply with the provisions of the Land Division Act, as
amended, and shall contain, in addition, the following information:
   (A)   The necessary easements along side lot lines that street light drop
outs have been granted to the appropriate public or private utility.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit a policy of title insurance for
examination in order to ascertain as to whether or not the proper parties have
signed the plat.
   (C)   As-built drawings of all completed improvements, with letters from the
approving agencies that the improvements were built in compliance with their
standards and are approved. For any improvements not completed prior to final
plat approval the proprietor will submit copies of approved construction plans
with letters form the approving agencies indicating that the plans have been
approved.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.14 REVIEW OF THE FINAL PLAT BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION. 
   The final plat documents shall be transmitted to the Clerk of the Planning
Commission for review as to compliance with the approved preliminary plat. The
Planning Commission shall act on the final plat within ten days from the date
of submission to the Village Clerk. The time for review and recommendations by
the Planning Commission may be extended by agreement with the proprietor.
   (A)   Should the Planning Commission find that the final plat is in
substantial agreement with the preliminary plat, it shall approve same, and
notify the Village Council of this action.
   (B)   Should the Planning Commission find that the plat does not conform to
the previously approved preliminary plat, and that it is not acceptable, it
shall state the reasons in its official minutes and forward same to the Village
Council, and recommend that the Village Council disapprove the final plat until
the objections are removed.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.15 REVIEW OF THE FINAL PLAT BY THE VILLAGE COUNCIL. 
   Upon receipt of the final plat from the proprietor, together with the filing
fees required under Section 241 of the Land Division Act, the Village Council
shall review the final plat, and shall take action to approve or disapprove the
final plat at its next regular meeting, or at a meeting called within 20 days
of the date of receipt of the final plat.
   (A)   The Village Council shall require of the proprietor, as a condition of
final plat approval, a cash deposit, certified check, or irrevocable bank
letter of credit, whichever the proprietor selects, issued to the village to
insure, within the time specified in the written agreement provided by §
151.17(B)(1), the performance of any contract relation with the village
relative to improvement of public places or parts thereof that have not been
completely installed or constructed at the time of final plat approval, and
shall require either a cash deposit, certified check, or irrevocable bank
letter of credit, whichever the proprietor selects, issued to the village for
the full cost, as estimated pursuant to §
151.17(B)(1), of any required public improvements or parts thereof that have
not been completely installed or constructed at the time of final plat
approval, to insure the installation of such required public improvements
within the time specified in the written agreement, after approval of the plat;
provided the village shall refund to the proprietor as the work progresses,
amounts of any cash deposits, or allow the appropriate reduction in security,
in amounts equal to the cost of completed units of work stipulated in the
agreement prepared pursuant to §
151.17(B)(1), performance guarantee, and satisfactory accomplishment of the
construction milestones noted therein.
   (B)   After the Village Council has approved the final plat, no change shall
be made therein unless the final plat is resubmitted for review and approval in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon approval of the final plat, the subsequent approvals shall follow
the procedure set forth in the Land Division Act of 1967, as amended.
   (D)   A certificate of approval of the final plat shall be affixed to the
plat by the surveyor, and all copies of the final plat signed by the Village
Clerk on behalf of the Village Council upon approval of the final plat by said
body.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.16 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   It is the purpose of this section to establish and define the public
improvements which will be required to be provided by the proprietor as
conditions for final plat approval.
   (A)   All water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, street, curb and gutter,
and sidewalk improvements shall comply with the engineering and construction
standards of the village.
      (1)   Accessible public drainage system. Where a storm drain is
reasonably accessible, each lot within the subdivided area shall be provided
with a connection thereto. All connections shall be subject to the approval of
the Village Engineer and all materials used in such system shall be subject to
current village specifications.
      (2)   Non-accessible public drainage system. In the event that a public
storm drain is not reasonably accessible to the subdivision, the subdivider
shall pay the cost of extending the storm sewer lines from the area platted to
the nearest public storm sewer trunk of adequate size to carry additional flow.
In addition, the subdivider shall install public storm drain facilities within
the platted area in accordance with the current village specifications.
   (B)   Street trees. Existing trees near street rights-of-way shall be
preserved by the subdivider. Street trees from the varieties listed in the
village specifications on file with the Village Clerk shall be provided at
least one per lot in the planting strip between the sidewalk and curb and
planted by the proprietor in accordance with the aforesaid village tree
planting specifications.
   (C)   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, and points of curves in the street. The fee for the inspection by the
village of all monuments shall be set by resolution of the Village Council and
paid by the proprietor.
   (D)   Compliance with a major street thoroughfare plan adopted by the
village, if any.
      (1)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for a continuation of
existing streets from adjoining areas into the new subdivision or land
division.
      (2)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided or divided, the
arrangement of streets in the proposed subdivision or land division shall be
extended to the boundary line of the tract to make provision for the future
projection of streets into adjoining areas; provided, however, that minor
streets within the subdivision or land division shall be so laid out that their
use by through traffic will be discouraged.
      (3)   Where the proposed subdivision or land division abuts or contains a
county primary road and major thoroughfare as defined in the Village Major
Thoroughfare Plan, the Village Council may require marginal access streets
approximately parallel to the right-of-way of the primary road or major
thoroughfare and may require such other treatment as is deemed necessary for
the adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation of
through and local traffic.
      (4)   Private streets may be permitted by the Village Council if the
Village Council finds that private streets within the plat or land division
will not adversely affect public health, safety or welfare. Private streets
shall be maintained by their adjoining landowners or by their association.
      (5)   Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees or closely thereto and in no
case less than 80 degrees.
      (6)   Where the proposed continuation of a street at an intersection is
not in alignment with the existing street, it must not intersect such cross
street closer than 175 feet from such opposite existing street, as measured
from the centerline of said streets.
      (7)   The maximum width of residential blocks shall be not less than 300
feet and their length not less than 300 feet nor more than 1,200 feet. The
length of business, commercial and industrial blocks shall not be less than 280
feet.
      (8)   All primary road rights-of-way, as designated by the Village
Council, within or abutting plats or land divisions hereafter recorded, shall
provide a 50 foot half-width. All other rights-of-way within or abutting such
plats or land divisions shall be not less than 66 feet in width. Permanent no
outlet and cul-de-sacs in excess of 660 feet in length are prohibited except
upon prior approval of the Village Council, to be granted only where the
topography of the area, rivers, streams, other natural conditions or the prior
development of the area prevent a through street from being constructed.
      (9)   A subdivision or land division or extension of an existing
subdivision or land division creating a total of 50 or more lots must be
developed so as to provide two or more access streets.
      (10)   Corner lots generally shall have extra width to permit appropriate
building setback from both streets.
      (11)   Privately-held reserve strips controlling access to streets are
prohibited.
      (12)   Existing natural features which add value to residential
development, that enhance the attractiveness of the community (such as streams,
water courses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) are to be
preserved insofar as possible in the design of the subdivision or land
division.
      (13)   All road grades shall not exceed a 7% grade or be less than a .5%
grade except upon special approval of the Village Engineer.
      (14)   All roads shall require installation of curbs and gutters. Curbs
and gutters are to be set apart not less than 30 feet as measured from back of
curb to back of curb and fully paved between the lip of the gutters. All other
road specifications shall meet the Clinton County Road Commission standards for
construction.
      (15)   All roads within the plat shall be constructed with not less than
three inches of bituminous aggregate pavement. The required bituminous pavement
shall be paid for by the village based on final inspection and approval.
      (16)   All rights-of-way shall be graded to the full width thereof for
proper drainage and prospective future widening and improving. Road grading
shall be accomplished so as to establish a .5 foot higher elevation at the
boundary of the right-of-way than at the crown of the traveled roadway. All
trees or other obstructions within the right-of-way which interfere with the
grading and/or drainage shall be removed. The foregoing .5 foot elevation and
tree and obstruction removal may be varied or adjusted by the Village Council
recommendation of the Village Engineer where valuable trees or obstacles are
involved and as long as drainage and safety will not be impaired.
      (17)   Permanent dead-end streets shall be provided at the closed end
with a turn-around having an outside improved roadway diameter of at least 100
feet as measured from the centerline of the gutter or back of curb and a street
property line diameter of at least 120 feet. Temporary dead-end streets shall
be provided at the closed end with a turn-around constructed the full width of
the right-of-way.
      (18)   All surface waters shall be adequately drained within each plat or
land division by a separate system of drainage structures or through the
connection of the separate system to an adequate adjoining system. Where storm
sewers are used, inlet basins must not be spaced further apart than 300 feet
except upon express approval of the Village Council, upon recommendation of the
Village Engineer or the Clinton County Drain Commissioner, to be granted only
where other equivalent and sufficient drainage inlets are provided. Where
inlets are not thus available, the drainage structures may consist of leaching
basins so spaced that water shall not be required to run on the surface of the
road further than 250 feet to a basin, or so spaced as to afford equivalent and
sufficient drainage. The determination of what is equivalent and sufficient
drainage shall be left to the Village Council upon the recommendation of the
Village Engineer or the Clinton County Drain Commissioner.
      (19)   Connection to sanitary sewers and/or water mains are required by
the Village Council.
      (20)   In the discretion of the Village Council, the proprietor shall
make arrangements with service companies for all distribution lines for
telephone, electric, television and other similar services distributed by wire
or cable to be placed underground entirely through the residential subdivided
area. Electrical distribution lines shall be defined in accordance with the
rules and regulations promulgated by the Michigan Public Service Commission.
Conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements provided to service
companies by the proprietor or within dedicated public ways. All facilities
placed in dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with
other underground utilities. All facilities shall be constructed in accordance
with standards of construction approved by the Michigan Public Service
Commission. Private easements for underground utilities shall be shown on the
preliminary plat.
      (21)   Storm water disposal methods proposed for the subdivision must be
adequate to insure each building site and roadway will not be flooded and that
all necessary easements for storm sewers or open drains can feasibly be
dedicated to the public for such purposes.
      (22)   No land within the subdivision may be isolated from a public
highway nor may any adjoining land of the proprietor or others be isolated from
a public thoroughfare thereby creating land- locked parcels.
      (23)   Street lighting may be required by the Village Council when the
Council determines that street lighting is necessary for public health, safety
and welfare.
      (24)   Construction of sidewalks shall comply with §
93.02.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-14) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The developer shall be responsible for the provision of all required
improvements to the subdivision.
   (B)   The final plat shall not be submitted until all of the required
improvements within the plat have been completed according to plans and
specifications as set forth herein, or until satisfactory arrangements have
been made to complete them. This may be accomplished by either the full
installation of all required improvements by the developer at the time that the
final plat is forwarded to the Village Council with a recommendation of
approval by the Planning Commission, or by the provision of a financial
guarantee of performance in the following manner:
      (1)   Performance guarantee.
         (a)   Any requests made of the Village Council to accept a performance
guarantee deposit in lieu of completing all required improvements prior to
having the Village Council approve the final plat, shall be confirmed by a
written agreement between the proprietor and the village and shall be
accompanied by an estimate of costs of the remaining required improvements.
This estimate shall be furnished by the proprietor’s engineer. It shall be
complete in all respects including estimated quantities and unit prices, and
bear the engineer’s seal of registration. If approved by the Village Council,
this estimate will provide the basis for the amount of performance deposit and
written agreement. Generally, the amount of performance guarantee deposit
required will be equal to 100% of the proprietor’s engineer’s estimate,
following review by the Village Engineer’s estimate and agreement, plus 25% of
such estimate for contingencies. The agreement may further stipulate that the
deposit shall be rebated to the proprietor, or an appropriate reduction in the
security, in the amounts equal to the cost of completed units of work
stipulated in the agreement prepared pursuant to this section, and satisfactory
accomplishment of the construction milestones noted therein.
         (b)   The performance guarantee shall either be a cash deposit or a
certified check, or an irrevocable letter of credit, deposited by the
subdivider with the Village Treasurer or a responsible escrow agent or trust
company, subject to the approval of the Village Council and the Village
Attorney.
         (c)   Further, the agreement shall be so written that any part of the
performance deposit, as required, may be used to reimburse the village for
costs incurred in connection with the examination and inspection of the
required improvements.
         (d)   In the event the proprietor shall in any case fail to complete
its work within the time specified in the written agreement as required by the
conditions of the guarantee, the village shall have the work completed. In
order to reimburse itself for the cost expense thereof, the Village Council may
appropriate from the deposit which the subdivider deposits in lieu of the
required improvements.
      (2)   Maintenance bond. Prior to acceptance by the village of required
improvements, a one year maintenance bond in an amount set by the Village
Council shall be posted by the proprietor.
      (3)   Inspections. Village staff or their designees shall provide
construction inspection of all required improvements on a continuous basis as
outlined in the City's Engineering and Construction Standards. In no case shall
the same engineer provide services to both the village and the proprietor. It
shall be the responsibility of the improvements contractors to notify the
office of the Village Department of Public Works Manager at least three days in
advance for the following periodic inspections:
         (a)   Storms and sanitary sewers, water lines, mains, laterals, and
catch basins before the trenches are backfilled.
         (b)   Forms set for curb and gutter sub-base have been put in place
and before the concrete is poured.
         (c)   Forms set for sidewalks before any concrete is poured.
         (d)   All subgrade that has been shaped and rolled, before compaction
test is made.
         (e)   Forms for pavement before any concrete is poured.
         (f)   All base courses.
         (g)   No work covered by the bond shall be accepted or bonds released
until these inspections have been made and work found satisfactory.
      (4)   The agreement to install required public improvements shall also
provide for the checking of improvements plans and continuous inspections of
all improvements by the village and for costs of those services which shall be
borne by the proprietor or the subdivider.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
 Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.18 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The subdivision design standards set forth in the following sections are
development guides for the assistance of the proprietor or subdivider. All
final plans shall be reviewed and meet the approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.19 EASEMENTS AND UTILITIES.
   Location of utility line easements shall be provided along rear or side lot
lines as necessary for utilities. Easements shall give access to every lot,
park or public ground. Such easements shall be a total of not less than 12 feet
wide, usually six feet dedicated from each lot or parcel. The proprietor shall
grant such additional public utility easements as may be necessary to
effectuate the purposes of §
151.20. Recommendations on the proposed layout of public utility easements
shall be sought from all of the public utility companies serving the area. It
shall be the responsibility of the proprietor to submit copies of the
preliminary plat to all appropriate public utility companies.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.20 UNDERGROUND WIRING.
   In all residential subdivisions hereafter approved, all wires, cables and
lines for the distribution of electrical energy or telecommunication service in
and to buildings and all wiring of light poles in such subdivision shall be
located underground or along rear lot lines.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.21 BLOCKS. 
   Blocks within subdivisions shall not exceed 1,200 feet in length nor a
minimum of 300 feet, and their width not less than 300 feet except where, in
the opinion of the Planning Commission, physical conditions may justify a
variation. Maximum length of a street terminating with a cul-de-sac shall be
660 feet measured from the nearest intersection to the beginning of the turn-
around.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
 Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.22 PUBLIC WALKWAYS.
   Locations of public walkways may be required by the Planning Commission to
obtain satisfactory pedestrian circulation within the subdivision, where blocks
are approved to exceed the standard maximum length. The right-of-way width of
all such public walkways shall be at least 12 feet and shall be a dedicated
easement.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.23 PUBLIC RESERVATIONS.
   When consideration is given by the proprietor to the allocation of areas
suitably located and of adequate size for playgrounds, school sites, parks and
recreation facilities, as indicated in the comprehensive development plan and
the Zoning Ordinance, those areas shall be provided by one of the following
methods:
   (A)   Dedication to the village.
   (B)   Reservation of land for the use by property owners by deed or
covenants.
   (C)   Reservation for acquisition by the village or School Board within a
period of two years. The reservation shall be made in such a manner as to
provide for a release of the land to the proprietor in the event the village or
School Board does not proceed with the purchase within the prescribed time
limit. Due regard shall be shown by the Planning Commission and Village Council
for preserving outstanding natural features such as scenic spots, water
courses, or stands of trees. Every effort shall be made by the proprietor to
preserve any nondiseased tree whose trunk is eight inches in diameter or more,
regardless of its location within the plat.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.24 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot sizes and shapes. Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the
following standards:
      (1)   Lot widths, areas, and building setback lines shall conform to at
least the minimum requirements of the Zoning Chapter.
      (2)   Residential lots having excessive depth in relation to width shall
be avoided. Under no circumstances shall a depth-to-width ratio exceed three to
one.
      (3)   Corner lots for residential use shall be provided with extra width
to permit appropriate building setback from and orientation to both streets.
Lots abutting a pedestrian walkway shall be treated as corner lots.
      (4)   Lots intended for purposes other than single-family or two-family
residential use, shall be specifically designated for such purposes.
   (B)   Lot division. Lots, outlots or other parcels of land in a recorded
plat shall not be divided unless the same is approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (1)   Procedures. Application for lot divisions shall be submitted in
writing to the Planning Commission and be accompanied by a sketch drawn to
scale showing the original lot, the proposed division, all pertinent dimensions
and the proposed legal descriptions.
      (2)   Conformance to Minimum Size. The proposed divisions shall not
create lots which would be less than the minimum sizes required by the Zoning
Chapter and shall not have the effect of increasing the number of buildable
lots in a subdivision. This provision shall not apply to non-residential
subdivisions.
      (3)   Maximum number of divisions. The proposed divisions will not result
in the division of a platted lot into more than four parts.
   (C)   Lot Arrangement. Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the
following standards:
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut on a public street.
      (2)   Side lot sides shall be at right angles or radial to the street
centerline, or as nearly as possible thereto.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thoroughfares or secondary streets,
where marginal access streets are not desirable, or possible to attain, shall
be platted with reverse frontage lots with an approved screen planting
contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property line having a
minimum width of 18 feet, or such other treatment as may be adequate for
protection of residential properties, or with side lot lines parallel to the
major traffic streets.
   (D)   Uninhabitable lots. Lots located wholly within the floodplain or lots
deemed by the Village Council to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for
residential occupancy, nor for such other purposes as may increase danger to
health, life or property or aggravate the flood hazard, but such land within
the plat shall be set aside for such uses as shall not produce unsatisfactory
living conditions.
   (E)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
platting of a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots rather than allowed
to remain as unusable parcels.
   (F)   Modifications. Variations, exceptions, and/or modifications of these
design requirements may be made by the Planning Commission in specific cases
where it is determined that unusual topographical conditions or other physical
conditions justify such modifications.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.25 NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The street and lot layout of a non-residential subdivision shall be
appropriate to the land use for which the subdivision is proposed and shall
conform to the proposed land use and standards established in the comprehensive
development plan, master street plan and Zoning Chapter. For the purposes of
this chapter, non-residential subdivisions shall include industrial parks and
office parks, and may include neighborhood, community and/or general commercial
districts.
   (B)   In addition to the principles and standards contained in these
regulations, the subdivider shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Planning Commission that the street, parcel, and block pattern proposed is
specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes account of other uses in
the vicinity. The following additional requirements, principles and standards
shall also be observed:
      (1)   Proposed parcels shall be suitable in area and dimensions to
accommodate the types of uses anticipated.
      (2)   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Village Council in
respect to the installation of public utilities.
      (4)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Village Council with
respect to street, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction.
      (5)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance resulting from the proposed nonresidential subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up to existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary as directed in the Zoning Chapter.
      (6)   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic shall not be extended to
the boundaries of adjacent existing or potential residential areas or connected
to streets intended for predominately residential traffic.
      (7)   Nonresidential subdivisions shall be located on either a major
thoroughfare or secondary street.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.26 PLAT RESTRICTIONS. 
   Any restriction required to be placed on platted land by the Village Council
shall vest in the Council the right to enforce the restriction in a court of
competent jurisdiction against anyone who has, or who acquires, an interest in
the land subject to the restriction. The restriction may be waived or released
in writing but only by the Village Council.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.27 LAND DIVISION OR TRANSFER. 
   Any division of property not covered by the subdivision plat, or lot split
review procedures of this chapter, by the Condominium Act, or meeting the
definition of an exempt split under the Land Division Act, and any property
transfer between two or more adjacent parcels, shall require review and
approval under the terms of this section as a land division or transfer.
   (A)   Application for land division or land transfer approval. An applicant
shall file all of the following with the Village Clerk or other official
designated by the Village Council for review and approval of a proposed land
division or transfer of land before making any division or transfer of land
either by deed, land contract, lease for more than one year or for building
development:
      (1)   A completed application form on such form as may be provided by the
Village.
      (2)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided.
      (3)   Survey maps.
         (a)   A survey map of the land proposed to be divided, prepared
pursuant to the survey map requirements of 1970 Public Act 132, as amended,
(M.C.L.A. §
54.211) by a land surveyor licensed by the State of Michigan, and showing the
dimensions and legal descriptions of the existing parcel and the parcels
proposed to be created by the division(s), the location of all existing
structures and other land improvements, and the accessibility of the parcels
for vehicular traffic and utilities from existing public roads.
         (b)   In lieu of a survey map, at the applicant’s option, the
applicant may waive the 45-day statutory requirement for a decision on the
application until the survey map and legal description are filed with the
village, and may submit a tentative preliminary parcel map drawn to scale of
not less than that provided for on the application form including an accurate
legal description of each proposed division and showing the boundary lines,
dimensions, and the accessibility of each division from existing or proposed
public roads for automobile traffic and public utilities for preliminary
review, approval, and/or denial by the locally designated official prior to a
final decision on the application.
         (c)   The Village Council, or its designated agent delegated such
authority by the Council, may waive the survey map requirement where the
foregoing tentative parcel map is deemed to contain adequate information to
approve a proposed land division considering the size, simple nature of the
divisions, and the undeveloped character of the territory within which the
proposed divisions are located. An accurate legal description of all the
proposed divisions, however, shall at all times be required.
      (4)   Proof that all standards of the Land Division Act and this chapter
have been met.
      (5)   The history and specifications of any previous divisions of land of
which the proposed division was a part sufficient to establish the parcel to be
divided was lawfully in existence as of March 31, 1997, the effective date of
the Land Division Act.
      (6)   Proof that all due and payable taxes or installments of special
assessments pertaining to the land proposed to be divided are paid in full.
      (7)   If transfer of division rights are proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer.
      (8)   Unless a division creates a parcel which is acknowledged and
declared to be "not buildable" under this chapter, all divisions shall result
in "buildable" parcels containing sufficient "buildable" area outside of
unbuildable wetlands, flood plains and other areas where buildings are
prohibited therefrom, and with sufficient area to comply with all required
setback provisions, minimum floor area, off-street parking spaces, on-site
sewage disposal and water well locations (where public water and sewer service
is not available), and maximum allowed area coverage of buildings and
structures on the site.
      (9)   The fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of
the Village Council for land division pursuant to this chapter to cover the
costs of review of the application and administration of this chapter and the
Land Division Act.
   (B)   Procedure for review of applications for land division approval.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the land division or land transfer application
documents under division (A) the Village Clerk or other official designated by
the Village Council shall forthwith submit the same to the Village Assessor or
other designated official for decision. The Village Assessor or other designee
shall approve, approve with reasonable conditions to assure compliance with
applicable chapters and the protection of public health, safety and general
welfare, or disapprove the land division or land transfer applied for within 45
days after receipt of the application documents conforming to the requirements
of this chapter and shall promptly notify the applicant of the decision and the
reasons for any disapproval. If the application package does not conform to
this chapter and the Land Division Act, the Assessor or other designee shall
return the same to the applicant for completion and re-filing in accordance
with this chapter and the Land Division Act.
      (2)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Assessor or
designee may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the
Village Council or to such other board or to a person designated by the Village
Council which shall consider and resolve the appeal by a majority vote of the
Council or of the Board at its next regular meeting or session affording
sufficient time for a 20-day written notice to the applicant (and appellant
where other than the applicant) of the time and date of said meeting and
appellate hearing, or within a similar period by the Council’s designee.
      (3)   A decision approving a land division or land transfer is effective
for 90 days, after which it shall be considered revoked unless within such
period a document is recorded with the office of the Clinton County Register of
Deeds and filed with the Village Clerk or other designated official,
accomplishing the approved land division or transfer.
      (4)   The Village Assessor or designee shall maintain an official record
of all approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (C)   Standards for approval of land divisions. A proposed land division
shall be approved if the following criteria are met:
      (1)   All the parcels to be created by the proposed land divisions(s)
fully comply with the applicable lot (parcel) yard and area requirements of the
Zoning Chapter, including, but not limited to, minimum lot (parcel) frontage/
width, minimum road frontage, minimum lot (parcel) area, minimum lot depth to
width ratio, maximum lot (parcel) coverage and minimum setbacks for existing
buildings/structures.
      (2)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all requirements of the
Land Division Act and this chapter.
      (3)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate
accessibility, or an area available therefor, to a public road for public
utilities and emergency and other vehicles not less than the requirements of
the applicable zoning ordinance, major thoroughfare plan, road ordinance or
this chapter. In determining adequacy of accessibility, any chapter standards
applicable to plats shall also apply as a minimum standard whenever a parcel or
tract is proposed to be divided to create four or more parcels.
      (4)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the division
does not exceed a three to one ratio exclusive of access roads, easements, or
nonbuildable parcels created under division (D) of this section and parcels
added to contiguous parcels that result in all involved parcels complying with
said ratio. The permissible depth of a parcel created by a land division shall
be measured within the boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road right-
of-way to the most remote boundary line point of the parcel from the point of
commencement of the measurement. The permissible minimum width shall be as
defined in the Zoning Chapter.
       (5)   Satisfactory evidence of the suitability of each proposed land
division for on-site sewage disposal and a potable on-site water supply is
provided from the Mid-Michigan Health Department or State Department of
Environmental Quality unless public water and sewer service is available to the
site.
      (6)   All road grades shall not exceed a 7% grade or be less than a .5%
grade except upon special approval of the Village Engineer.
      (7)   All roads shall require installation of curb and gutter. Said curb
and gutter to be set apart not less than 31.5 feet as measured from back to
back and fully paved between the lip of the gutters. All roads shall be
constructed according to Clinton County road specifications.
      (8)   All roads within or abutting the land to be divided shall be
constructed with not less than three inches of bituminous aggregate pavement.
      (9)   All rights-of-way shall be graded to the full width thereof for
proper drainage and prospective future widening and improving. Road grading
shall be accomplished so as to establish a .5 foot higher elevation at the
boundary of the right-of-way than at the crown of the traveled roadway. All
trees or other obstructions within the right-of-way which interfere with the
grading and/or drainage shall be removed. The foregoing .5 foot elevation and
tree and obstruction removal may be varied or adjusted by the Village Council
recommendation of the Village Engineer where valuable trees or obstacles are
involved and as long as drainage and safety will not be impaired.
      (10)   Permanent dead-end streets shall be provided at the closed end
with a turn-around having an outside improved roadway diameter of at least 100
feet as measured from the centerline of the gutter or back of curb and a street
property line diameter of at least 120 feet. Temporary dead-end streets shall
be provided at the closed end with a turn-around constructed the full width of
the right-of-way.
      (11)   All surface waters shall be adequately drained within each land
division by a separate system of drainage structures or through the connection
of such separate system to an adequate adjoining system. Where storm sewers are
used, inlet basins must not be spaced further apart than 300 feet except upon
express approval of the Village Council, upon recommendation of the Village
Engineer or the Clinton County Drain Commissioner, to be granted only where
other equivalent and sufficient drainage inlets are provided. Where such inlets
are not thus available, drainage structures may consist of leaching basins so
spaced that water shall not be required to run on the surface of the road
further than 250 feet to the basin, or so spaced as to afford equivalent and
sufficient drainage. The determination of what is equivalent and sufficient
drainage shall be left to the Village Council upon the recommendation of the
Village Engineer or the Clinton County Drain Commissioner.
      (12)   Connection to sanitary sewers and/or water mains as required by
the Village Council.
      (13)   In the discretion of the Village Council, the proprietor shall
make arrangements with service companies for all distribution lines for
telephone, electric, television and other similar services distributed by wire
or cable to be placed underground entirely through the residential subdivided
area. Electrical distribution lines shall be defined in accordance with the
rules and regulations promulgated by the Michigan Public Service Commission.
Conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements provided to service
companies by the proprietor or within dedicated public ways. All facilities
placed in dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with
other underground utilities. All facilities shall be constructed in accordance
with standards of construction approved by the Michigan Public Service
Commission. Private easements for underground utilities shall be shown on the
survey map.
      (14)   Storm water disposal methods proposed for the land division must
be adequate to insure each building site and roadway will not be flooded and
that all necessary easements for storm sewers or open drains can feasibly be
dedicated to the public for such purposes.
      (15)   No land within the land division may be isolated from a public
highway nor may any adjoining land of the proprietor or others be isolated from
a public thoroughfare thereby creating land- locked parcels.
      (16)   Street lighting may be required by the Village Council when the
Council determines that street lighting is necessary for public health, safety
and welfare.
      (17)   Sidewalks. Construction of sidewalks shall comply with §
93.02.
   (D)   If the Village Council determines that the land division has obtained
the required statutory approval of other governmental agencies and complies
with the requirements set forth above in this chapter, the Village Council
shall grant final approval of the land division.
   (E)   Allowance for approval of other land division. Notwithstanding
disqualification from approval pursuant to this chapter, a proposed land
division which does not fully comply with the applicable lot, yard,
accessibility and area requirements of the applicable zoning ordinance or this
chapter may be approved in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where the applicant executes and records an affidavit or deed
restriction with the Clinton County Register of Deeds, in a form acceptable to
the village, designating the parcel as "not buildable." Any such parcel shall
also be designated as "not buildable" in the Village records and shall not,
thereafter, be the subject of a request to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
variance relief from the applicable lot and/or area requirements and shall not
be developed with any building or above ground structure exceeding four feet in
height and shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Where, in circumstances not covered by division (1) above, the
Zoning Board of Appeals has, previous to this chapter, granted a variance from
the lot, yard, depth to width ratio, frontage and/or area requirements with
which the parcel failed to comply.
      (3)   Where the proposed land division involves only the minor adjustment
of a common boundary line or involves a conveyance between adjoining properties
which does not result in either parcel violating this chapter, the Zoning
Chapter or the Land Division Act.
   (F)   Consequences of Noncompliance with Land Division Approval Requirement.
Any parcel created in noncompliance with this chapter shall not be eligible for
any building permits or zoning approvals, such as special land use approval or
site plan approval, and shall not be recognized as a separate parcel on the
assessment roll. In addition, violation of this chapter shall subject the
violator to the penalties and enforcement actions set forth in §
151.99 and as may otherwise be provided by law.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.28 LAND DIVISION ACT.
   The provisions of the Land Division Act, being Act 288 of Michigan Public
Acts of 1967, as amended, not specifically referred to herein shall apply to
the development of all subdivisions in the village.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
 Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.29 GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   The applicant shall be responsible for the provision of all required
improvements to the land division.
   (B)   The approved land division(s) shall not be conveyed until all of the
required improvements within the land division have been completed according to
plans and specifications as set forth herein, or until satisfactory
arrangements have been made to complete them. This may be accomplished by
either the full installation of all required improvements by the developer at
the time that the final plat is forwarded to the Village Council with a
recommendation of approval by the Planning Commission or by the provision of a
financial guarantee of performance in the following manner:
      (1)   Performance guarantee.
         (a)   Any requests made of the Village Council to accept a performance
guarantee deposit in lieu of completing all required improvements prior to
having the Village Council approve the land division, shall be confirmed by a
written agreement between the proprietor and the village and shall be
accompanied by an estimate of costs of the remaining required improvements.
This estimate shall be furnished by the proprietor's engineer. It shall be
complete in all respects including estimated quantities and unit prices, and
bear the engineer's seal of registration. If approved by the Village Council,
this estimate will provide the basis for the amount of performance deposit and
written agreement. Generally, the amount of performance guarantee deposit
required will be equal to 100% of the proprietor's engineer's estimate,
following review by the Village Engineer's estimate and agreement, plus 25% of
such estimate for contingencies. The agreement may further stipulate that the
deposit shall be rebated to the proprietor, or an appropriate reduction in the
security, in the amounts equal to the cost of completed units of work
stipulated in the agreement prepared pursuant to this section, and satisfactory
accomplishment of the construction milestones noted therein.
         (b)   The performance guarantee shall either be a cash deposit or a
certified check, or an irrevocable letter of credit, deposited by the
subdivider with the Village Treasurer or a responsible escrow agent or trust
company, subject to the approval of the Village Council and the Village
Attorney.
         (c)   Further, the agreement shall be so written that any part of the
performance deposit, as required, may be used to reimburse the village for
costs incurred in connection with the examination and inspection of the
required improvements.
         (d)   In the event the proprietor shall in any case fail to complete
its work within the time specified in the written agreement as required by the
conditions of the guarantee, the village shall have the work completed. In
order to reimburse itself for the cost expense thereof, the Village Council may
appropriate from the deposit which the subdivider deposits in lieu of the
required improvements.
      (2)   Maintenance bond. Prior to acceptance by the village of required
improvements, a one year maintenance bond in an amount set by the Village
Council shall be posted by the proprietor.
      (3)   Inspections. Village staff or their designees shall provide
construction inspection of all required improvements on a continuous basis as
outlined in the village's Engineering and Construction Standards. In no case
shall the same engineer provide services to both the village and the
proprietor. It shall be the responsibility of the improvements contractors to
notify the office of the Village Department of Public Works Manager at least
three days in advance for the following periodic inspections:
         (a)   Storms and sanitary sewers, water lines, mains, laterals, and
catch basins before the trenches are backfilled.
         (b)   Forms set for curb and gutter sub-base have been put in place
and before the concrete is poured.
         (c)   Forms set for sidewalks before any concrete is poured.
         (d)   All subgrade that has been shaped and rolled, before compaction
test is made.
         (e)   Forms for pavement before any concrete is poured.
         (f)   All base courses.
         (g)   No work covered by the bond shall be accepted or bonds released
until these inspections have been made and work found satisfactory.
      (4)   The agreement to install required public improvements shall also
provide for the checking of improvements plans and continuous inspections of
all improvements by the village and for costs of those services which shall be
borne by the proprietor or the subdivider.
(Ord. passed 3-12-07)
§ 151.99 PENALTY. 
   (A)   Any violations of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
violation of §
10.99.
   (B)   The village may also bring an action, in its own name, to restrain or
prevent any violation of this chapter or any continuance of any such violation.
   (C)   Any sale of lands subdivided in violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be voidable at the option of the purchaser thereof, and shall
subject the seller thereof to the forfeiture of any and all consideration
received or pledged therefore, together with any damages sustained by said
purchaser thereof, recoverable in an action at law.
(Ord. 49, passed 3-14-05)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Purpose, Title, and Scope
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Scope
   
152.003   Title
   
152.004   Application of regulations
   
152.005   Scope of provisions
Definitions and Interpretations
   
152.015   Intent and purpose
   
152.016   Use of words and terms
   
152.017   Definitions "A"
   
152.018   Definitions "B"
   
152.019   Definitions "C"
   
152.020   Definitions "D"
   
152.021   Definitions "E"
   
152.022   Definitions "F"
   
152.023   Definitions "G"
   
152.024   Definitions "H"
   
152.025   Definitions "I"
   
152.026   Definitions "J"
   
152.027   Definitions "K"
   
152.028   Definitions "L"
   
152.029   Definitions "M"
   
152.030   Definitions "N"
   
152.031   Definitions "O"
   
152.032   Definitions "P"
   
152.033   Definitions "R"
   
152.034   Definitions "S"
   
152.035   Definitions "T"
   
152.036   Definitions "U"
   
152.037   Definitions "V"
   
152.038   Definitions "W"
   
152.039   Definitions "Y"
   
152.040   Definitions "Z"
General Provisions
   
152.050   Intent and purpose
   
152.051   Accessory buildings and structures
   
152.052   Access to streets
   
152.053   Alteration or change of use
   
152.054   Animals, keeping of
   
152.055   Corner lots
   
152.056   Cul-de-sac lots
   
152.057   Determination of lot measurements
   
152.058   Earth removal, grading and filling
   
152.059   Essential public services
   
152.060   Fees and charges
   
152.061   Fences and walls
   
152.062   Home occupations
   
152.063   Illegal dwellings
   
152.064   Intersection visibility, clear vision
   
152.065   Lighting requirements
   
152.066   Lot width/depth ratio
   
152.067   Main building or principal use
   
152.068   Mechanical appurtenances
   
152.069   Nonconforming uses, structures, and lots
   
152.070   Permitted front setback reductions
   
152.071   Portable storage container regulations
   
152.072   Projections into yards
   
152.073   Regulations applicable to single-family dwellings outside
manufactured home parks
   
152.074   Required area or space
   
152.075   Required water supply and sanitary sewage facilities
   
152.076   Seasonal uses
   
152.077   Site condominiums
   
152.078   Storage of recreational vehicles
   
152.079   Storage and repair of vehicles
   
152.080   Swimming pools
   
152.081   Temporary buildings
   
152.082   Temporary occupancy in vehicular dwelling
   
152.083   Wireless communication towers
Zoning Districts and Boundaries
   
152.090   Zone districts
   
152.091   Zone district map
   
152.092   Lot divided by zone district boundary line
   
152.093   Zoning of annexed areas
   
152.094   Zoning of vacated areas
   
152.095   Zone districts and district standards
R-1 Single Family Residential District
   
152.115   Intent
   
152.116   Permitted uses
   
152.117   Special land uses
   
152.118   Site development requirements
R-2 Single, Two, and Multiple Family Residential District
   
152.130   Intent
   
152.131   Permitted uses
   
152.132   Special land uses
   
152.133   Site development requirements
C-1 Central Business District
   
152.140   Intent
   
152.141   Permitted uses
   
152.142   Special land uses
   
152.143   Site development requirements
C-2 General Commercial District
   
152.150   Intent
   
152.151   Permitted uses
   
152.152   Special land uses
   
152.153   Site development requirements
I Industrial District
   
152.160   Intent
   
152.161   Permitted uses
   
152.162   Special land uses
   
152.163   Site development requirements
PUD Planned Unit Development District
   
152.170   Intent
   
152.171   Qualifying conditions
   
152.172   Permitted uses
   
152.173   Pre-application conference
   
152.174   PUD application
   
152.175   Planning Commission recommendation
   
152.176   Village Council action
   
152.177   Final development plan application
   
152.178   Planning Commission review of final development plan
   
152.179   Standards for approval (both preliminary and final)
   
152.180   PUD agreement
   
152.181   Changes to an approved PUD
   
152.182   Time limit for approved PUD district
Site Plan Review
   
152.190   Intent and purpose
   
152.191   Uses subject to site plan review
   
152.192   Procedure for site plan review
   
152.193   Standards for site plan approval
   
152.194   Approved plans and amendments
   
152.195   Appeal of decisions
Special Land Uses
   
152.210   Intent and purpose
   
152.211   Application procedures
   
152.212   Review and findings
   
152.213   General standards for making determinations
   
152.214   Conditions and safeguards
   
152.215   Specific requirements
Landscaping and Design Requirements
   
152.225   Intent
   
152.226   Required buffer zones
   
152.227   General landscape development standards
   
152.228   Additional landscaping and screening
   
152.229   Residential landscaping
   
152.230   Design requirements
Off-street Parking and Loading
   
152.240   Intent and purpose
   
152.241   Jurisdiction
   
152.242   Parking and loading plan review
   
152.243   Location of parking areas
   
152.244   Parking areas existing before the effective date of this chapter
   
152.245   Use of right-of-way
   
152.246   Uses of parking areas
   
152.247   Schedule of parking requirements
   
152.248   Rules for measurement and interpretation
   
152.249   Site development requirements
   
152.250   Joint use of parking areas
   
152.251   Building additions and change of use
   
152.252   Loading and unloading space requirements
   
152.253   Deferred parking
   
152.254   Disabled parking requirements
   
152.255   Nonresidential and multiple family access
   
152.256   Parking and storage regulations
Signs
   
152.265   Purpose and intent
   
152.266   Definitions
   
152.267   General provisions related to signs
   
152.268   Signs permitted in any zoning district
   
152.269   Non-conforming signs, illegal signs, and signs accessory to non-
conforming uses
   
152.270   Sign requirements for individual zoning districts
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.280   Purpose
   
152.281   Creation and membership
   
152.282   Organization
   
152.283   Powers and duties
   
152.284   Voting requirements, effect of variances, resubmission
   
152.285   Conditions of approval
   
152.286   Bonding
   
152.287   Certification of compliance
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.295   Responsibility
   
152.296   Zoning ordinance amendments, initiation
   
152.297   Amendment procedure
   
152.298   Consideration of amendment
   
152.299   Consideration of amendment by Village Council
   
152.300   Zoning compliance permits
   
152.301   Performance guarantee
   
152.302   Ordinance violations
   
152.303   Severability clause
   
152.304   Conflicting provisions
   
152.305   Savings clause
   
152.306   Repeal of previous zoning ordinance
   
152.307   Effective date
Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   
152.315   Intent and purpose
   
152.316   Small wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
   
152.317   Large wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
   
152.318   Utility scale wind energy systems
   
152.319   Wind energy monitoring station
   
152.320   Construction codes, towers, interconnection standards
PURPOSE, TITLE, AND SCOPE
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to the Village of Fowler by the Public
Acts of the State of Michigan, this chapter is established for the following
purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare;
   (B)   To protect the character and the stability of the open space,
residential, and nonresidential areas within the Village of Fowler and promote
the orderly and beneficial development of such areas;
   (C)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   (D)   To regulate the intensity of use of land and lot areas and determining
the area of open spaces surrounding buildings and structures necessary to
provide adequate light and air and to protect the public health;
   (E)   To lessen and avoid congestion on the public highways and streets;
   (F)   To promote healthful surroundings for family life in residential
areas;
   (G)   To protect the public and adjacent uses from fire, explosion, noxious
fumes or odors, excessive heat, dust, smoke, glare, noise, vibration, and other
health and safety hazards;
   (H)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
buildings and structures, so far as possible and appropriate, in each zoning
district by regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land
surrounding them;
   (I)   To enhance the social and economic stability of the village;
   (J)   To enhance the aesthetic desirability of the environment throughout
the village; and
   (K)   To conserve the expenditure of funds for public improvements and
services.
§ 152.002 SCOPE.
   (A)   Interpretation and application.
      (1)   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, or general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to impair or interfere with any other existing
provision of law or ordinance.
      (2)   However, where this chapter imposes a greater restriction than is
required by existing ordinance or by rules, regulations, or permits, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (B)   Vested rights. Except as otherwise noted in this chapter, nothing in
this chapter shall be interpreted or construed to give rise to any permanent
vested rights in the continuation of any particular use, district, zoning
classification, or any permissible activities therein; and all rights are
hereby declared to be subject to such subsequent amendment, change or
modification as may be necessary to the preservation or protection of public
health, safety, and welfare.
§ 152.003 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Village of Fowler
Zoning Ordinance."
§ 152.004 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The right to continue a land use or activity or construct a building or
structure which is either permitted by this chapter or established as a legal
nonconformity shall be vested with the property rather than the owner. No
rights shall be terminated for reasons of transfer of ownership. The right to
continue a land use or activity shall transfer automatically upon the
conveyance of the property unless terminated pursuant to §
152.069, Nonconforming Uses, Structures, and Lots.
§ 152.005 SCOPE OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, every building and
structure erected, every use of any lot, building, or structure established,
every structural alteration or relocation of an existing building or structure,
and every enlargement of, or addition to, an existing use, building and
structure occurring after the effective date of this chapter, shall be subject
to this chapter.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. All land development specifically listed
under the heading "Uses Permitted by Right" shall be allowed when determined to
be in accordance with all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
laws, regulations or ordinances having jurisdiction over the proposed use of
land. Where not specifically permitted, uses are prohibited, unless construed
to be similar to a use as expressly determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special land use. All land development specifically
listed under the heading of "Uses Permitted by Special Land Use" in the
district description contained in this chapter shall be conducted in accordance
with the requirements of §§
152.210 through
152.215.
   (D)   Uses not specifically mentioned.
      (1)   Any use of land or development activity not specifically mentioned
in this chapter shall be classified by the Zoning Board of Appeals for
classification.
      (2)   If the Zoning Board of Appeals finds that the use is not similar in
character to uses listed in the chapter they shall so find. It is advisable
that the Zoning Board of Appeals recommend to the Planning Commission for
consideration of an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance to include the proposed
use in one or more of the zoning districts of this chapter, either as a use
permitted by right or a use permitted by special land use.
   (E)   Uses existing before chapter. Any use of the land or development
activity existing on the effective date of this chapter may continue subject to
the provisions contained in §
152.069, Nonconforming Uses, Structures, and Lots.
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
§ 152.015 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish rules for interpreting the
text of this chapter, to define certain words and terms, and to provide for the
interpretation of this chapter by adoption of a technical dictionary. Certain
words and terms which may not appear in this subchapter, but which have special
application may be defined in other subchapters to which they apply.
§ 152.016 USE OF WORDS AND TERMS.
   (A)   If the meaning of this chapter is unclear in a particular
circumstance, then the Zoning Board of Appeals shall interpret the provision to
carry out the intent of the chapter if such can be comprehended from other
provisions of the chapter or law.
   (B)   All words and phrases shall be interpreted and understood according to
the common preferred usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and
such as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall
be interpreted and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate
meaning.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense, words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural number
shall include the singular, unless the context clearly indicates and stipulates
the contrary.
   (D)   The words "person," "proprietor," "property owner," and "operator"
shall include any recognized form of legal entity.
   (E)   The words "property," "lot," "parcel," "real estate," "premises,"
"plot" and "land" shall be interpreted to mean real property as delineated and
described by legal documents and instruments.
   (F)   The word "road" shall also mean "highway," "street," "alley," "drive,"
"cul-de-sac," "land" or other public thoroughfare.
   (G)   The word "building" shall include the word "structure."
   (H)   The words "used" or "occupied" when applied to any land or building
shall be construed to include the words "intended," "arranged," or "designed to
be used or occupied."
   (I)   The words "shall" and "required" are always interpreted as mandatory
and never as permissive or discretionary.
   (J)   The word "may" shall be interpreted as permissive or discretionary.
   (K)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the words noted
below shall be interpreted as follows.
      (1)   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions,
or events shall apply.
      (2)   "Or," indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singularly or in any combination.
      (3)   "Either…or" indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singularly but not in combination.
   (L)   In computing the number of days, the first day is excluded and the
last day is included. If the last day of any period during which an
application, filing, or request is required to be made to the village or other
governmental agency is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the period is
extended to include the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
holiday.
§ 152.017 DEFINITIONS "A".
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or structure located on the same lot as the
principal building or structure, the use of which is incidental or secondary to
the principal building or use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use of land or of a building or portion thereof which is
customarily and naturally incidental to, subordinate to, and devoted
exclusively to the principal use of the land or building and located on the
same lot with the principal use.
   ADDITION. A structure added to the existing structure after the completion
of the existing structure which extends or increases the floor area, or height
of a building or structure.
   ADULT USES. The term shall include adult bookstore, adult motion picture
theater, adult motel, adult nightclub, and massage parlor. These terms and
terms related to these definitions, as noted, shall have the following
indicated meanings:
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a significant portion
of its stock in trade books, films, magazines, electronic media and other
periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing SEXUAL CONDUCT or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (2)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means of adult entertainment
depicting, describing or portraying through a motion picture media form SEXUAL
CONDUCT or SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS in a setting within an adult use that is generally
characterized by one of the following:
         (a)   A coin or token-operated machine where someone may view a motion
picture film, video, cassette, compact disc or other similar media form which
depicts, describes, or portrays SEXUAL CONDUCT or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (b)   A booth, or other such constructed area, where an individual
may, for the payment of a fee, view sexually explicit material depicting,
describing or portraying SEXUAL CONDUCT or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (3)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing SEXUAL
CONDUCT or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (4)   ADULT MERCHANDISE STORE or ADULT BUSINESS. A commercial
establishment having a substantial or significant portion of its stock and
trade in books, magazines, periodicals, photographs, videotapes, video
cassettes, laser cassettes, films, electronic media or other visual
representations which depict, describe, or portray SEXUAL CONDUCT or SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (5)   ADULT PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS. A business having, as its
principal activity, a person while nude, or while displaying SEXUAL CONDUCT or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS as defined herein, providing personal service for
another person.
      (6)   ADULT NIGHTCLUB. A theater or other establishment, which features
live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, "go-go" dancers, exotic
dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such performances are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on SEXUAL CONDUCT or SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (7)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
occurs as part of, or in connection with, SEXUAL CONDUCT, or where any person
providing such treatment, manipulation or service related thereto exposes
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (8)   SEXUAL CONDUCT.
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, or female breast.
      (9)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola;
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   ALTERATION. Any modification, remodeling, change or rearrangement in the
structural or supporting members such as bearing walls, columns, or girders, as
well as any change in the doors or windows which affect the means of egress
which is undertaken without adding to the floor area height or physical size of
the building or structure.
§ 152.018 DEFINITIONS "B".
   BASEMENT OR CELLAR. That portion of a building which is partly below and
partly above grade, and having at least one-half its height below grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1763.png]
 
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A use within a detached single family dwelling in which
transient guests are provided a sleeping room, breakfast and access to bathing
and lavatory facilities in return for payment.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS, or ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS, or BOARD, or BOARD OF
APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Fowler.
   BUILDING. A combination of material, whether portable or fixed forming a
structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls affording a facility
or shelter for use or occupancy by persons, animals, or property.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining within a lot after the minimum setback
and open space requirements of this chapter have been met.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of the Village Building Code, or their duly
authorized representative.
§ 152.019 DEFINITIONS "C".
   CALIPER. The diameter of a tree trunk.
   CHANGE OF USE. A use of a building, structure or parcel of land, or portion
thereof which is different from the previous use in the way it is classified in
this chapter.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A development where structures are arranged in closely
related groups, units are typically of the same type or design character, and
built at higher densities in certain areas of a site while preserving the
natural features in others on the same site.
   COMMERCIAL USE. An activity carried out as a use of property for financial
gain including but not limited to retail sales, repair service, business
offices, food service, entertainment, and brokerages, related to purchase,
sale, barter, display, or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or personal
services or the maintenance of service offices or recreation or amusement
enterprise or garage/basement sales operating more than 12 days during any one
12 month period.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed telecommunication
services including cellular, personal communication services (PCS), specialized
mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging, and
similar services that are marketed to the general public.
   CONDOMINIUM. The ownership of a dwelling unit and the space enclosed by the
description thereof as contained in the master deed for the complex or project,
established in conformance with the provisions of the Condominium Act 59 of
1978, as amended, M.C.L.A. 559.101 et seq.
   CONSTRUCTION. The erection, alteration, repair, renovation, demolition or
removal of any building or structure; and the excavation, filling, and grading
of a lot.
   CONVALESCENT HOME. A long-term recuperative care facility providing room and
board and supervised personal care by facility staff on a 24 hour basis for the
aged, the infirm or persons recovering from illness. An unlicenced extended
care facility or chronic care facility providing 24 hour nursing care shall
mean the same.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one terminus open for vehicular or pedestrian
access and the other terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
§ 152.020 DEFINITIONS "D".
   DAY CARE, COMMERCIAL. A facility, other than a private residence, receiving
minor children for care for periods of less than 24 hours in a day, for more
than two weeks in any calendar year. Child care and supervision provided as an
accessory use, while parents are engaged or involved in the principal use of
the property, such as a nursery operated during church services or public
meetings, or by a fitness center or similar operation, shall not be considered
commercial day care.
   DAY CARE, FAMILY. A single family residence, occupied as such, in which care
is provided for more than one but less than seven minor children or adults for
periods of less than 24 hours per day, unattended by a parent or legal
guardian. Care for persons related by blood, marriage or adoption to a member
of the family occupying the dwelling is excluded from this definition.
   DAY CARE, GROUP. A single family residence, occupied as such, in which care
is provided for at least seven but not more than 12 minor children or adults
for periods of less than 24 hours per day, unattended by a parent or legal
guardian. Care for persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption to a member
of the family occupying the dwelling is excluded from this definition.
   DECIBEL. The unit of measurement used to express the magnitude of sound
pressure and sound intensity. [Amended 3-14-2011]
   DEMOLITION. The purposeful razing or destruction, or disassembly of a
building or structure.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per unit of lot area (see LOT AREA).
   DENSITY, GROSS. A figure which equals the total number of dwelling units on
a lot divided by the total number of acres included in the lot.
   DENSITY, NET. A figure which equals the total number of dwelling units on a
lot divided by the total number of acres included in the lot, excluding any lot
area owned by a governmental entity, used as a private street or occupied by a
non-residential use.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural
alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure; and mining,
excavation, land filling or land disturbance, and any extension of an existing
use of land.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued to a person proposing a development
which is regulated by this chapter, which indicates compliance with the chapter
and thereby granting permission to proceed.
   DISTURBED LAND. A parcel of land which is graded, filled, excavated or mined
or stripped of its natural vegetative cover or grass for a purpose other than
agriculture land use.
   DRIVEWAY. A private path of travel over which a vehicle may be driven which
provides access from one or two parcels of land to a public or private road.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. An area of land for which there are uniform regulations
governing the use of buildings and premises, density of development, yard
requirements and height regulations, and other appropriate regulations.
   DWELLING. A detached building or portion thereof designed or used
exclusively as the home, residence or sleeping place of one or more persons,
not including accessory buildings or structures, either attached or detached or
travel trailers, motor homes, automobiles, tents, or other portable buildings
as defined as a recreation vehicle. In the case of a mixed occupancy where a
building is occupied in part as a dwelling, the part so occupied shall be
deemed a dwelling for purposes of this chapter and shall comply with the
provisions relative to dwellings.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or a portion thereof, designed
exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living independently of
each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building, designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families independently of each other and having separate cooking and bath
facilities for each.
§ 152.021 DEFINITIONS "E".
   ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of
underground, surface, or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission
or distribution systems, collection, communication supply or disposal systems.
These may include, but are not necessarily limited to, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes, traffic signals, hydrants,
towers, poles, and other similar equipment, and accessories in connection
therewith reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such
public utilities or municipal departments or commissions or for the public
health or general welfare. Essential public services shall not include
buildings other than such buildings as are primarily enclosures or shelters of
the above essential public service equipment. Cellular telephone or
communications towers as defined by this subchapter shall not be considered
essential services.
   EXCAVATION. Removal or recovery by any means whatsoever of soil, rock, sand,
gravel, peat, muck, marrow, shale, limestone, clay or other mineral or organic
substances, other than vegetation, from water or land, whether exposed or
submerged.
   EXISTING USE. The use of a parcel of land or a structure at the time of the
enactment of this chapter.
§ 152.022 DEFINITIONS "F".
   FAMILY.
      (1)   An individual or group of two or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, together with foster children, a caretaker, and not more
than one additional unrelated person who are domiciled together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit; or
      (2)   A collective number of individuals domiciled together in one
dwelling unit not to exceed the maximum number of individuals reasonably
permitted by the health, safety and welfare guidelines of the Zoning Ordinance,
Health Regulations, and the Building Code, whose relationship is of a
continuing, nontransient domestic character and who are cooking and living as a
single nonprofit housekeeping unit. This definition shall not include any
society, club, fraternity, sorority, association, half-way house, lodge,
coterie, organization, group of students, or other individual whose domestic
relationship is of a transitory or seasonal nature, is for an anticipated
limited duration of school term or during a period of rehabilitation or
treatment, or is otherwise not intended to be of a permanent nature. [Amended
8-11-2008]
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of waters; or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of all horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building or dwelling unit, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls,
or from the centerline of walls separating dwelling units. Unenclosed porches,
courtyards, patios and cellars shall not be considered as part of floor area,
except when utilized for commercial or industrial purposes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1765.png]
 
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS (GFA). The area within the perimeter of the outside walls
of the building under consideration, without deduction for hallways, stairs,
closets/ storage rooms, thickness of walls, columns, or other features.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE (UFA). That area used for or intended to be used for the
sale of merchandise or services, or for use to serve patrons, clients or
customers.
      (1)   Such floor area which is used or intended to be used for hallways,
stairways, elevator shafts, utility or sanitary facilities or the storage or
processing of merchandise shall be excluded from this computation of USABLE
FLOOR AREA.
      (2)   Measurement of usable floor area shall be the sum of the horizontal
areas of each story of a structure measured from the internal faces of the
exterior walls.
   FRONTAGE. The total length of the front lot line being the horizontal
distance between the side lot lines, as measured at the front setback line.
§ 152.023 DEFINITIONS "G".
   GFA. See FLOOR AREA, GROSS.
   GOVERNMENT AND COMMUNITY SERVICE FACILITY. A facility under the operational
control of a governmental unit, specifically a township, city, village, county,
state, the United States Government, or some combination of governmental units,
including, but not limited to, offices, libraries, museums, village hall, post
offices, courts, and civic centers; excluding vehicle and equipment
maintenance, garages and correctional institutions.
   GRADE. The average elevation of the finished surface of ground after the
development, filling, or excavation of a parcel of land.
   GREENHOUSE. A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass or
other transparent or translucent material and in which the temperature and
humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season
plants for subsequent sale or for personal enjoyment. (See NURSERY.)
   GROUND COVER. Grasses or other plants grown to keep soil from being blown or
washed away.
   GROUP DAY CARE CENTER. See DAY CARE, GROUP.
§ 152.024 DEFINITIONS "H".
   HEAVY EQUIPMENT. Commercial vehicles with a gross vehicle weight in excess
of 10,000 pounds, and excavating, grading, road building, earth moving,
demolition, loading and similar equipment.
   HEIGHT. The vertical distance of a structure measured from the average
elevation of the finished grade within 20 feet of the structure to the highest
point of the structure, or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING. The building height is the vertical distance measured from
the established grade to the highest point of the roof surface if a flat roof;
to the deck of mansard roofs; and to the mean height level between eaves and
ridge of gable, hip and gambrel roofs. When the terrain is sloping, the ground
level is measured at the wall line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1767.png]
 
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation customarily conducted in a dwelling unit that
is clearly an incidental and secondary use of the dwelling. Without limiting
the foregoing, a single family residence used by an occupant of that residence
to give instruction in a craft or fine art within the residence shall be
considered a home occupation. A home occupation may also be known commonly as
cottage industry, home based business, home marketing network, or home
interactive distribution or marketing, but shall not be construed to include
day care or state licensed residential care facilities.
   HUMAN OCCUPANCY. A building or portion thereof primarily used or intended to
be used for individuals to congregate for any purpose and which is equipped
with means of egress, light, and ventilation facilities in accordance with the
Michigan Construction Code, excluding a building or portion thereof incidental
to the use for agricultural purposes of the land on which the building is
located, or a building used exclusively for the purpose of storage in which
there are no employees or occupants.
§ 152.025 DEFINITIONS "I".
   (Reserved for future use)
§ 152.026 DEFINITIONS "J".
   (Reserved for future use.)
§ 152.027 DEFINITIONS "K".
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises on which more than four domesticated
household pets (but not including wild, vicious or exotic animals) six months
or older are kept, either permanently or temporarily, either for sale,
breeding, boarding, training, hobby, protection, or pets, subject to the
regulation set forth herein regulating private and commercial kennels.
§ 152.028 DEFINITIONS "L".
   LAND USE. A description of how land is occupied or utilized.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or group
of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading
or unloading merchandise or materials.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1769.png]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/IMAGES/0-0-0-1771.png]
 
   LOT. A parcel of land, or contiguous parcels of land under one ownership
described within fixed boundaries, of sufficient size and configuration to meet
the site development requirements of this chapter and having frontage on an
improved public street, or an approved private street. The word LOT shall
include plot or parcel. A lot need not be a "lot of record." A lot may also
mean a portion of a condominium project, as regulated by Public Act 59 of 1978,
as amended, designed and intended for separate or limited ownership and/or use.
   LOT AREA. The total area within the described lot lines of a parcel of land,
excluding road right-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A parcel of land abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection, or upon parts of the same street forming an interior angle of
less than 135 degrees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1773.png]
   LOT, COVERAGE. That portion of the area of lot that contains buildings and
structures, including accessory structures, measured as a percent of the entire
lot area.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance from the front lot line to the rear lot line
measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot which is located behind other parcels or lots fronting on a
public road, but which has a narrow extension to provide access to the public
road.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. The boundaries of a lot which divide one lot from another lot or
from a public or existing private road or any other publicly owned parcel of
land.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. A lot line of a length equal to or greater than the minimum
lot width as required in this chapter which is also the road right-of-way line
on interior lots which front a public or private road and one of the right-of-
way lines on corner lots and is the lot line most parallel to the closest
public or private road on all other lots.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line; or in the case of triangular or otherwise irregularly shaped lots, a line
20 feet entirely within the lot parallel to and at a maximum distance from the
front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH OR DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot having frontage on two more
or less parallel street as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a
row of double frontage lots, all yards of said lots adjacent to streets shall
be considered frontage and front yard setbacks shall be provided as required.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, as measured
at the front yard setback line.
§ 152.029 DEFINITIONS "M".
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured home is a structure transportable in one
or more sections, eight body feet or more in width and 32 body feet or more in
length, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling, with or without permanent foundation, when connected to required
utilities and including plumbing, heating and electrical stems contained
therein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT or MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land
owned by a person upon which are located two or more manufactured homes whether
attached or detached from each other or adjacent buildings which are occupied
for residential purposes or are connected to a water supply or wastewater
disposal system either on a temporary or permanent basis, regardless of whether
or not the development offers rental lots or manufactured homes to the public.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA.
      (1)   DEBILITATING MEDICAL CONDITION. The conditions and circumstances
provided in Section 3(a) of the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act (M.C.L.A.
333.26423(a)).
      (2)   MARIHUANA. (Also known as marijuana and cannabis) means the
substance defined in Section 7106 of the Public Health Code, PA 1978, No. 368
(M.C.L.A. 333.7106).
      (3)   MEDICAL USE. The acquisition, possession, cultivation, manufacture,
use, internal possession, delivery, transfer, or transportation of marihuana or
paraphernalia relating to the administration of marihuana to treat or alleviate
a registered qualifying patient's debilitating medical condition or symptoms
associated with the debilitating medical condition.
      (4)   PRIMARY CAREGIVER or REGISTERED PRIMARY CAREGIVER. A person who has
agreed to assist with a registered qualifying patient's medical use of
marihuana and who has a valid registry identification card identifying said
person as a primary caregiver for that qualifying patient.
      (5)   QUALIFYING PATIENT or REGISTERED QUALIFYING PATIENT. A person who
has been diagnosed by a physician as having a debilitating medical condition
and who has a valid registry identification card issued by the Michigan
Department of Community Health which identifies the person as a registered
qualifying patient.
      (6)   USABLE MARIHUANA. The dried leaves and flowers of the marihuana
plant and any mixture or preparation thereof, but does not include the seeds,
stalks and roots of the plant.
      (7)   MEDICAL MARIHUANA DISPENSARY. Any location at which medical
marihuana is transferred from one person to another, other than transfers of
marihuana from a registered primary caregiver to a qualifying patient who is
directly linked to that qualifying patient through the State of Michigan
registration process.
      (8)   COMPASSION CLUB. Any entity which is not available to the public,
which is comprised of primary caregivers or qualifying patients and the primary
objective includes the use marihuana in any form or the support, facilitation,
or instruction of such use.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY DEVELOPMENT. Two or more buildings containing multiple
family dwellings on a single lot.
   MUNICIPAL WATER SUPPLY. A water supply system owned by a governmental unit.
§ 152.030 DEFINITIONS "N".
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof lawfully existing at
the effective date of this chapter or amendments thereto, and which does not
conform to the provisions of the chapter in the zoning district in which it is
located.
   NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD. A platted lot that conformed with all village
zoning requirements at the time of recording of said plat, which no longer
conforms to the zoning regulations and requirements for lot area, lot width, or
both; or a lot outside a recorded plat that conformed with all village zoning
requirements at one time, and which has not been subdivided or reduced in size
subsequent to the time it did conform to the Zoning Ordinance, which no longer
conforms with the zoning requirements for lot area, lot width, or both.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date of this chapter or amendments thereof, and that does not conform
to the use regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
   NURSERY. A parcel of land utilized for the purpose of growing ornamental
trees, shrubbery, house plants, flowers, or perennial ground covers from seed
or seedlings for the purpose of retail or wholesale trade.
   NURSING HOME. A state licensed long-term facility providing room and board
and supervised personal care by facility staff on a 24 hour basis for seven or
more aged, infirm or persons recovering from illness which is regulated under
Act 368 of 1978. A state licensed sub-acute care facility, state licensed home
for the aged, a state licensed nursing home, or state licensed hospice facility
providing 24 hour nursing care shall mean the same.
§ 152.031 DEFINITIONS "O".
   OCCUPANCY CERTIFICATE. A written document received from the Building
Inspector stating that the Village Building Code, as amended, and this chapter
have been complied with as they apply to the construction of a building or
structure and the use of a lot and that the building may now be occupied for
its previously declared purpose.
   OCCUPY. The residing of an individual or individuals overnight in a dwelling
unit, or the installation, storage, or use of equipment, merchandise or
machinery in any institutional, commercial, agricultural, or industrial
building.
   OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITY. A facility providing vehicular parking spaces,
along with adequate drives, aisles, and maneuvering space to allow unrestricted
ingress and egress to at least two vehicles.
   OFFICE. A room, studio, suite or building occupied and for office uses only.
   OPEN AIR BUSINESS. Includes uses operated for profit substantially in the
open air including:
      (1)   Bicycle, utility truck or trailer, motor vehicle, boat, or home
equipment sale, repair or rental services.
      (2)   Outdoor display and sale of garages, motor homes, manufactured
homes, snowmobiles, farm implements, swimming pools and similar activities.
      (3)   Retail sales of trees, fruits, vegetables, shrubbery, plants,
seeds, top-soil, humus, fertilizer, trellises, lawn furniture, playground
equipment and other home garden supplies and equipment.
      (4)   Tennis courts, archery courts, shuffleboard, horseshoe courts,
rifle ranges, miniature golf, golf driving range, children's amusement park or
similar recreation uses (transient or permanent).
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Open space which is held for the collective use and
enjoyment of the owners, tenants, or occupants of a single development.
   OWNER. The owner of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate in the
premises, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, an assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, leasee, or any other person, sole proprietorship,
partnership, association, or corporation directly or indirectly in control of a
building, structure, or real property or his or her duly authorized agent.
§ 152.032 DEFINITIONS "P".
   PARK. A parcel of land, building or structure used for recreational purposes
including but not limited to playgrounds, sport fields, game courts, trails,
picnicking areas, and leisure time activities.
   PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by an authorized
official, empowering the holder thereof to perform a specified activity which
is not prohibited by law, but not allowed without such authorization.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. The use of a parcel of land which is planned and
developed as a single entity containing the various uses, structures, open
spaces, and other elements and which is designated and developed under one
owner or organized group.
   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER. Any container designed for the temporary storage
of personal and/or business property which is typically rented to owners or
occupants of property for their storage use and which is delivered and/or
removed by truck trailer. [Amended 8-11-2008]
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant purpose to which a parcel of land
is devoted as distinguished from an accessory use.
   PRIVATE SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. An individual on-site sewage
disposal system as defined in the Mid-Michigan District Health Department
Sanitary Code.
   PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY. A well or other water supply system approved by the
Mid-Michigan District Health Department pursuant to Part 127 of Act 368 of the
Public Acts of 1978, as amended, M.C.L.A. 333.12701 et seq.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A system of pipe owned and maintained by a
governmental unit used to carry human, organic and industrial waste from the
point of origin to a point of treatment or discharge.
   PUBLIC STORM SEWER. A system of pipe owned and maintained by a governmental
unit, used to carry storm water collected from multiple sources including
streets, downspouts, and parking lots to a discharge point. Discharge points
include, but are not limited to, a lake, river or tributary, and retention or
detention ponds.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. A water works system which provides water for drinking
or household purposes to persons other than the supplier of water, except those
water works systems which supply water to only one living unit, or as further
defined in Public Act 399 of 1976, as amended, M.C.L.A. 325.1001 et seq.
§ 152.033 DEFINITIONS "R".
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle or equipment intended for temporary or
periodic use for recreational or leisure pursuits. Such vehicles shall include
boats, airplanes, special purpose automobiles, floats, rafts, trailers,
snowmobiles, camping or travel trailers, motorized homes, detachable travel
equipment of the type adaptable to light trucks, and other equipment or
vehicles of a similar nature.
   REHABILITATION. The upgrading of an existing building or part thereof which
is in a dilapidated or substandard condition.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing building
for the purpose of maintenance.
   RESIDENTIAL FAMILY CARE CENTER. See STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY.
   RESTORATION. The reconstruction or replication of an existing building's
original architectural features.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A public or private strip of land acquired or utilized by
reservation, dedication, easement, prescription, purchase or condemnation and
permanently established for the passage of persons, vehicles, railroads, water,
utility lines, and similar uses.
§ 152.034 DEFINITIONS "S".
   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA or DISH ANTENNA. An apparatus capable of receiving
communications from a transmitter or a transmitter relay located in planetary
orbit.
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance measured from the front,
side, or rear lot line, as the case may be, which describes an area termed the
setback on a lot or parcel required by this chapter for the district in which
it is located.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1775.png]
 
      (1)   SETBACK, FRONT. The minimum required horizontal distance measured
from the front lot line which describes an area termed the front setback on a
lot or parcel required by this chapter for the district in which it is located.
      (2)   SETBACK, REAR. The minimum required horizontal distance measured
from the rear lot line which describes an area termed the rear setback on a lot
or parcel required by this chapter for the district in which it is located.
      (3)   SETBACK, SIDE. The minimum required horizontal distance measured
from the side lot lines which describes an area termed the side setback on a
lot or parcel required by this chapter for the district in which it is located.
   SHADOW FLICKER. Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the moving
blade of a WECS casting shadows on the ground and stationary objects. [Amended
3-14-2011]
   STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A residential care family or group
facility licensed by the State of Michigan under Act 287 of 1972 of the Public
Acts of Michigan, as amended, or Act 116 of 1973 of the Public Acts of
Michigan, as amended, which provides resident care services under 24 hour
supervision or care for persons in need of that supervision or care. This term
does not include such facilities licensed by the State of Michigan for care and
treatment of persons released from or assigned to adult correctional
institutions.
      (1)   A family facility includes a state licensed residential facility
providing resident services to six or fewer persons.
      (2)   A group facility includes a state licensed residential facility
providing resident services to more than six persons.
   STOP WORK ORDER. An administrative order which is either posted on the
property or mailed to the property owner which directs a person not to
continue, or not to allow the continuation of an activity which is in violation
of this chapter.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A privately owned and maintained thoroughfare including any
rights-of-way and traveled surfaces which afford traffic circulation and
principal means of access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way,
drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road, and other thoroughfare. A private street
shall include any drive or roadway which is not a dedicated public right-of-
way, and which provides or has the potential for providing access to two or
more existing parcels and/or main buildings.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A public thoroughfare including any rights-of-way and
traveled surfaces which afford traffic circulation and principal means of
access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way, drive, lane,
boulevard, highway, road, and other thoroughfare; except an alley.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or in the dimensions or
configurations, or of the roof and exterior walls or means of egress.
   STRUCTURE. A combination of materials whether fixed or portable, anything
constructed, erected, or artificially built-up which requires a location on or
below the surface of land or water, including a part or parts thereof and all
equipment within the structure.
   SUBDIVISION. Subdivision means the partitioning or splitting of a parcel or
tract of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose
of sale, or lease of more than one year, or of building development that
results in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and
that is not exempted from the platting requirements of the Land Division Act,
Act 288 of 1967 of the Public Acts of Michigan, as amended. "Subdivide" or
"subdivision" does not include a property transfer between two or more adjacent
parcels, if the property taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel;
and any resulting parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the
parcel conforms to the requirements of this act or the requirements of the
Village of Fowler Land Division Ordinance.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT. A map or chart depicting the subdivision of land as
regulated by the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, Act 288 of the Public Acts of
1967, as amended.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement or repair is started, or if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
      (1)   For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions, or any compatible alteration of a structure listed on
the National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic
Places.
   SWIMMING OR BATHING POOL. A nonporous container containing water having a
depth of greater than 24 inches or having a surface area of greater than 250
square feet, or a pool permanently equipped with a water recirculating system
or constructed of structural materials, excepting retention or detention ponds.
§ 152.035 DEFINITIONS "T".
   TOWER, COMMUNICATION. Towers erected for the purpose of providing commercial
wireless telecommunication services or other radio wave communications.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis which is
less than 32 feet in length and is of such a width and weight as not to require
special highway movement permits when drawn by a vehicle.
§ 152.036 DEFINITIONS "U".
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or structures are designed,
arranged, or intended, or for which land or structures are occupied or
maintained.
   USE GROUP. The classification of a building or structure based upon its
purpose as contained in the State Construction Code.
   USEABLE FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, USEABLE.
   UTILITY SCALE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A WECS designed and operated specifically
to provide electricity off-site to the municipal electric grid system and not
the site on which it is located. [Amended 3-14-2011]
§ 152.037 DEFINITIONS "V".
   VARIANCE. Permission given by the Zoning Board of Appeals to a property
owner to depart from the literal requirements of this chapter which may occur
when compliance with this chapter would create a practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship on the property owner.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, or road, excepting devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VEHICLE REPAIR. Any major activity involving the general repair, rebuilding
or reconditioning of motor vehicles, engines, or trailers; collision services,
such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair; overall painting and
vehicle rust-proofing; refinishing or steam cleaning.
   VEHICLE SERVICE STATION. A building and lot or parcel designed or used for
the retail sale of fuel, lubricants, air, water or other operating commodities
for motor vehicles (including trucks, aircraft and boats) and including the
customary space and facilities for the installation of such commodities on or
in such vehicles and including space for storage, hand washing, minor repair,
and servicing, but not including vehicle repair as defined in this subchapter.
   VEHICLE WASH ESTABLISHMENT. A building, or portion thereof, the primary
purpose of which is that of washing motor vehicles.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL, CLINIC, AND INDOOR KENNEL. Any activity involving the
permanent or temporary keeping or treatment of animals operated as a business.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Fowler, Michigan.
   VILLAGE BUILDING CODE. The duly adopted Building Code of the Village of
Fowler.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. Legislative body of the Village of Fowler, Michigan.
§ 152.038 DEFINITIONS "W".
   WALL. The vertical exterior surface of a building and the vertical interior
surfaces which divide a building's space into rooms.
   WATERCOURSE. An open trench either naturally or artificially created which
periodically or continuously contains moving water draining an area of at least
two acres which has definite banks, a bed and visible evidence of a continued
flow or occurrence of water.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). A device or combination of devices,
such as free standing towers with horizontal axis wind turbines, structure
mounted vertical axis wind turbines, and all associated facilities and
components that convert wind energy to electrical energy. [Amended 3-14-2011]
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, SMALL. A wind energy conversion system which
has a rated capacity of not more than ten kilowatts (kW) and which is intended
to primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power. A small WECS may also
provide electricity for off-site use and may be structure mounted or tower
mounted. [Amended 3-14-2011]
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, LARGE. A wind energy conversion system which
has a rated capacity of more than ten kilowatts (kW) and which is intended to
primarily reduce on-site consumption of utility power. A large WECS may also
provide electricity for off-site use and would be typically tower mounted.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
   WIND ENERGY MONITORING STATION. Any device which is tower or structure
mounted, which is temporary in nature, and measures wind data for a specific
site. [Amended 3-14-2011]
§ 152.039 DEFINITIONS "Y".
   YARD. A yard is an open space on the same land with a building or group of
buildings, which open space lies between the building or group of buildings and
the nearest lot line and is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward,
except as otherwise provided herein.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1777.png]
 
      (1)   A FRONT YARD is an open space extending the full width of the lot,
the uniform depth of which is measured at right angles to the front lot line.
      (2)   A REAR YARD is an open area extending across the full width of the
lot, the uniform depth of which is measured at right angles to the rear lot
line.
      (3)   A SIDE YARD is an open unoccupied area between a main building and
the side lot lines, extending from the front yard area to the rear yard area.
The width of the side yard shall be measured horizontally from and at right
angles to the nearest point of the side lot line.
§ 152.040 DEFINITIONS "Z".
   ZONING. The dividing of the village into districts of a number and shape
considered best suited to carry out the purposes of the Zoning Act and the
creation of uniform regulations throughout each individual district. Such
districts are referred to as zoning districts in this Chapter.
   ZONING ACT. The Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, and
its amendments. [Amended 3-10-2008]
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of
Fowler.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Village of Fowler Zoning Ordinance.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.050 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish regulations and conditions
which are applicable to all districts of this chapter unless otherwise
indicated. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide uniform regulations
applicable within the Village of Fowler which supplement the specific
requirements for each district, and each permitted use.
§ 152.051 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and structures that are customarily incidental
and subordinate to an existing principal building, structure or use permitted
by right within the applicable district, located on the same lot and not
otherwise regulated by this chapter, shall be permitted subject to the
regulations of this section.
      (2)   Attached accessory buildings and structures shall be made
structurally a part of the principal building and shall conform to the site
development standards of the district in which the building or structure is
located.
      (3)   Detached accessory buildings and structures shall be no closer than
ten feet from the principal building or structure.
   (B)   Detached accessory buildings and structures - residential districts or
uses.
      (1)   Detached accessory buildings and structures shall be located only
in the rear yard and at the setbacks required for main buildings for the
district in which it is located, except that in no case shall a detached
accessory building be closer than six feet from any lot line, as measured from
the closest point of the building. In addition, no detached accessory building
or structure shall be located upon a rear yard utility easement.
      (2)   The lot coverage shall not exceed 25% for all principal and
accessory buildings on a parcel.
         (a)   Lot coverage means the percentage of the building footprint for
the first floor coverage of all principal and accessory buildings/structures in
relation to the total square footage of the parcel.
      (3)   For parcels less than one-half acre (< 21,780 sq. ft.) a maximum of
two detached accessory buildings shall be permitted and the combination of
accessory buildings shall not exceed a total of 1,200 square feet and are
limited to a maximum height of 18 feet. Maximum height for an accessory
building shall be measured from the finished grade to the highest point of the
roof surface. When the terrain is sloping, the ground level is measured at the
finished floor wall line. [Amended 12-11-2017]
      (4)   For parcels equal to or greater than one-half acre (= or > 21,780
sq. ft.) a maximum of two detached accessory buildings shall be permitted and
the combination of accessory buildings shall not exceed a total of 5.6% of lot
square footage and are limited to a maximum of 2,400 square feet and a maximum
height of 18 feet. Maximum height for an accessory building shall be measured
from the finished grade to the highest point of the roof surface. When the
terrain is sloping, the ground level is measured at the finished floor wall
line. [Amended 12-11-2017]
      (5)   In addition to the two accessory buildings, one additional detached
storage shed shall be permitted for a residential district or use, not to
exceed 120 square feet in area. A swimming pool and cover structure shall also
be permitted on a lot, subject to the requirements of §
152.079 and any other applicable ordinance.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
   (C)   Detached accessory buildings - nonresidential districts or uses.
      (1)   No more than two detached accessory buildings shall be permitted on
any lot.
      (2)   The total area of all accessory buildings shall not exceed 25% of
the floor area of the main building(s).
      (3)   Detached accessory buildings shall meet all setback requirements
for main buildings for the district in which it is located, as measured from
the closest point of the building, except that in no case shall be closer than
ten feet from any lot line.
      (4)   No detached accessory building shall be located nearer than ten
feet to any main building.
      (5)   No detached accessory building shall exceed the permitted height
for main buildings in the district in which it is located.
      (6)   Any detached accessory building or structure located closer than 15
feet to any property line of an abutting residentially zoned or used parcel
shall provide a six foot high continuous obscuring screen comprised of plant
material, berming, screen walls, fences, or any combination of these elements
as described and required in §§
152.225 through
152.230, Landscaping and Design Requirements. [Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.052 ACCESS TO STREETS.
   All lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall have the
required minimum lot width, as measured at the front setback line, and direct
access from said lot, to a public or private street created in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter. Private streets must only be provided as
established by the Village Council.
§ 152.053 ALTERATION OR CHANGE OF USE.
   Except as may otherwise be permitted in this chapter, any change in the use
of lot or structure, or any alteration of an existing lot or structure shall
require the issuance of a development permit and the compliance with all
provisions of this chapter.
§ 152.054 ANIMALS, KEEPING OF.
   The keeping, housing, raising, use or care of animals is permitted and
subject to the following limitations and conditions:
   (A)   Customary household pets may be kept on a non-commercial basis
provided that the number of such animals does not exceed six and that it does
not exceed three dogs. This does not include the temporary keeping of newborn
animals for a period of time not-to-exceed six months. Customary household pets
include such animals as dogs, cats, rabbits, birds, and similar animals; but do
not include pigeons, chickens, ducks, geese, goats, sheep, pigs, and other farm
livestock.
§ 152.055 CORNER LOTS.
   (A)   A corner lot shall have two front lot lines: a principal front lot
line and a secondary front lot line. The principal front lot line shall be the
shorter of the two lot lines. Where the lot lines are of equal length, and/or
the principal front lot line is not evident, then the Zoning Administrator
shall determine the principal front lot line.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   The required front setback shall be met on both the principal and
secondary streets; provided that where the lot contains an existing main
building, the front setback from the secondary street may be reduced by ten
feet.
      (2)   The remaining setbacks shall side setbacks.
      (3)   The width of a corner lot shall be determined by the entire length
of that front lot line which is considered as the principal lot line.
§ 152.056 CUL-DE-SAC LOTS.
   (A)   The cul-de-sac shall be determined to commence at the intersection of
the radius of the cul-de-sac with the street right-of-way line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1779.png]
 
   (B)   The minimum lot width for a lot on a cul-de-sac shall be measured at a
line drawn between the two points located at the intersection of a line
extending along the side lot lines equal to the distance of the required front
setback.
   (C)   A lot on a cul-de-sac shall have not less than 40 feet of lot frontage
as measured along the front lot line.
§ 152.057 DETERMINATION OF LOT MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   A corner lot shall have two front lot lines, two side lot lines, and
no rear lot line.
   (B)   Required front yard setbacks shall be measured from both front lot
lines.
   (C)   For a corner lot with three front lot lines, the remaining lot line
shall be a rear lot line.
   (D)   The front building line on any lot with an outside simple curve will
be the straight-line chord that intersects the side lot lines at the point of
intersection with the required front set-back line.
   (E)   The front building line on any lot with an inside simple curve will be
the straight line tangent perpendicular to the arc radius at the midpoint of
the curve.
   (F)   Front building lines on lots with compound, broken-back or reverse
curves will be determined using the tangent or chord which provides the
greatest set-back toward the interior of the lot from the required set-back
line and front lot line.
§ 152.058 EARTH REMOVAL, GRADING AND FILLING.
   (A)   In order to protect adjacent properties, public roads and public water
courses, and to provide for adequate drainage of surface water, the following
requirements shall apply to all construction activities requiring a development
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Filling of property to an elevation above the established grade of
adjacent developed property shall not be permitted without the expressed
written approval of the Village Engineer.
   (C)   The final grade surface of ground areas surrounding a building or
structure shall be designed and landscaped such that surface water flows away
from the building or structure and is managed to avoid increased flow onto
adjacent properties or public roads.
   (D)   Any land development which disturbs the existing grade of more than
one acre of land or lies within 500 feet of an open drain, shall require a soil
erosion and sedimentation control permit pursuant to Public Act 347 of 1972, as
amended, prior to issuance of a development permit.
   (E)   Any land development, dredging, filling, or other activity requiring a
permit pursuant to the Inland Lakes and Streams Act 1972 PA 346, shall be
required to obtain said permit prior to the issuance of a development permit.
§ 152.059 ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES.
   The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of essential public
services shall be permitted in any zoning district; it being the intention
thereof to exempt such erection, construction, alteration or maintenance from
the application of this chapter.
§ 152.060 FEES AND CHARGES.
   The Village Council shall by resolution establish such fees and charges as
it may require for applications, permits, reviews, and for other procedures and
services related to the provisions of this chapter.
§ 152.061 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Fences and walls in front yards of all districts shall not exceed
three and one-half feet in height, and shall be of non-solid construction, such
as cyclone fencing, which have openings of at least 75% in each square foot of
fencing, or wall.
   (B)   Solid walls and fences, and those of open construction, not exceeding
six feet in height are permitted in side and rear yards of all districts.
   (C)   Finished sides of fences must face out.
§ 152.062 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Home occupations shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator, who
may issue an approval upon receipt of a letter from the applicant stating his
or her intent to comply with the requirements of this section and the specific
measures by which compliance will be maintained.
   (B)   A home occupation shall be conducted only within the premises of a
single-family detached dwelling unit. Home occupations are not permitted within
two family, or multiple-family dwellings.
   (C)   There shall be no outdoor, on-site storage of materials, equipment, or
accessory items and/or display of materials, goods or supplies used in the
conduct of the home occupation. The on-site storage of commercial vehicles used
incidentally for or used in the home occupation business shall not be
permitted.
   (D)   Only members of the immediate family who reside on the premises shall
be employed in any part of the operation of the home occupation.
   (E)   Home occupations are permitted only in the principal structure or
building. All activities related to the home occupation shall be carried on
entirely within the dwelling unit. In no case shall more than 25% or 480 square
feet, whichever is smaller, of the gross floor area of the principal building
be utilized for a home occupation.
   (F)   A home occupation shall not generate a traffic burden through
excessive traffic or create an adverse effect for the general area in which it
is located. The following factors shall be considered by the Zoning
Administrator to determine whether the traffic effects on a neighborhood may be
excessive:
      (1)   Whether the subject parcel is located at the entrance or the
interior of a subdivision where increased traffic volumes may be otherwise
anticipated.
      (2)   Whether the nature of the proposed home occupation requires
scheduled appointments or whether traffic volumes may be higher at certain
times of the day.
      (3)   Whether traffic volumes may vary on a seasonal basis.
      (4)   Whether the home occupation could be conducted in such a manner as
to reduce traffic generated in the area.
   (G)   Any parking for vehicles associated with the home occupation shall be
provided off the street, including the street right-of-way.
   (H)   No retail or other sales of merchandise or products shall be conducted
upon the premises except for incidental products directly related to and
necessary for the home occupation.
   (I)   The establishment of a home occupation shall not necessitate exterior
modification to any building on the property, except as may be required by the
Zoning Administrator to comply with adopted Building Codes and requirements.
   (J)   The applicant shall certify that the home occupation will not be
detectable to the normal senses off the lot or produce fumes, odors, dust,
vibration, noise, smoke, electrical interference, fire hazard
or other conditions which might pose a nuisance to adjacent properties. In the
case of electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used which
creates visual or audible interference in any radio or television receivers off
the premises or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
   (K)   The Zoning Administrator may identify allowable hours of operation to
avoid possible disquieting effects from the home occupation to adjacent
properties.
   (L)   Signs shall be as allowed as permitted in §§
152.265 through
152.270, but in no case shall a sign exceed two square feet in area. The
permitted sign shall be non-illuminated and mounted flat against the wall of
the dwelling.
   (M)   Medical marihuana primary caregiver. A primary caregiver, subject to
the restrictions set forth in the definitions and requirements of the Michigan
Medical Marihuana Act and the general rules of the Michigan Department of
Public Health and this chapter may furnish and provide the services of a
registered primary caregiver as a home occupation, subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   The existing home occupation regulations of divisions (B) through
(J) of this section shall be applicable to the medical marihuana primary
caregiver.
      (2)   A registered primary caregiver's marihuana growing operations shall
be limited to the number of plants allowed by the Michigan Medical Marihuana
Act.
      (3)   No signs or advertisements of any kind shall be permitted on the
exterior of the property or structure utilized as a registered primary
caregiver home occupation.
      (4)   A registered primary caregiver functioning as a home occupation
from a dwelling shall not be located within a radius of 1,000 feet from any
school, including child day care facilities, church or drug rehabilitation
facility.
      (5)   A registered primary caregiver functioning as a medical marihuana
home occupation shall be the only person engaged in the conduct of that
activity at that address.
      (6)   The use of a dwelling as a home occupation under this section shall
be limited to one registered primary caregiver providing usable marihuana to
not more than five qualifying patients; provided, however, that transfers of
medical marihuana from the registered primary caregiver to his or her
qualifying patient shall be accomplished only by the delivery of medical
marihuana by the primary caregiver at the home of the qualifying patient.
      (7)   Marihuana growing facilities, which are part of a registered
primary caregiver home occupation shall not generate light which is visible
from the public right-of-way and shall be subject to public safety inspections
such as mechanical, electrical and fire prevention inspections.
      (8)   All medical marihuana shall be contained within the dwelling within
a secure, enclosed, locked facility, accessible only by the registered primary
caregiver or registered qualifying patient as required by the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act and as approved by, and subject to inspection by the Building
Official.
      (9)   Confidentiality. Supporting information submitted by a primary
caregiver, regarding a registered qualifying patient including information
regarding the patient's physician, is confidential.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
§ 152.063 ILLEGAL DWELLINGS.
   The use of any portion of a garage or accessory building for dwelling or
sleeping purposes in any zoning district is prohibited. Basements shall not be
used for sleeping purposes, unless adequate ingress and egress is provided per
the requirements of the Village Building Code and other applicable regulations.
In no case, shall any living space located in a basement be counted toward the
required floor area requirement for the district in which it is located.
§ 152.064 INTERSECTION VISIBILITY, CLEAR VISION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1781.png]
 
   No fence, wall, sign, hedge, screen or any planting shall be erected or
maintained to obstruct vision between a height of three feet and eight feet
within the triangular area formed by the intersection of the street right-of-
way lines and a line connecting two points which are located on those
intersecting right-of-way lines 15 feet from the point of intersection of the
right-of-way lines. The three foot and eight foot height limit shall be
measured from the lowest elevation of the segment of the intersecting roads
centerline which lays between the point of the intersection of the other
centerline and the extension of the line drawn through the points 20 feet from
the intersection of the right-of-way lines.
§ 152.065 LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Parking lot lighting shall be as required in §
152.249(G).
   (B)   Lighting provided for security or visibility on any site shall be
shielded to reduce glare and shall be so arranged and maintained as to direct
the light away from any residential district or use.
   (C)   Light fixtures shall be no higher than 20 feet and shall be provided
with light cut-off fixtures that direct light downward. For parking lots
serving a single building or groups of related commercial, industrial, or
office buildings in excess of 250 spaces the Planning Commission may permit a
higher light fixture in selected locations within the parking lot where
existing or planned residential areas will not be affected.
   (D)   Lighting shall not be attached to buildings or other structures that
permit light to be directed horizontally. Lighting in these situations may be
directed diagonally toward the ground.
§ 152.066 LOT WIDTH/DEPTH RATIO.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1783.png]
   Lots created after the effective date of this chapter having a lot area of
less than ten acres shall have a lot width which is equal to, or greater than,
one-third the depth of the lot.
§ 152.067 MAIN BUILDING OR PRINCIPAL USE.
   Each parcel shall contain only one main building or principal use, except
for groups of related commercial, industrial, and office buildings, and
multiple family dwellings, contained within a single, integrated complex,
sharing parking, signs, access, and other similar features which together form
a unified function and appearance.
§ 152.068 MECHANICAL APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   Except in the general commercial district, mechanical appurtenances,
such as blowers, ventilating fans and air conditioning units, shall be placed
not closer than 12 feet to any lot line.
   (B)   Any mechanical appurtenances, including elevator housings, stairways,
tanks, heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment, and other similar
apparatus, located on the roof of any building shall comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   Such apparatus shall be enclosed in a screening structure having
walls constructed of material compatible in appearance with the main building
to which it is attached.
      (2)   The apparatus and enclosure shall not exceed a height of ten feet
above the surrounding roof surface, and shall not occupy greater than 10% of
the total area of the roof of the building on which it is placed.
§ 152.069 NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES, AND LOTS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Any lot, use of land, or structure which has been established in
violation of the provisions of a previous Zoning Ordinance having jurisdiction
at the time the use of land or structure was established, and any lot, use of
land, or structure which has been lawfully established under a previous Zoning
Ordinance and subsequently violates the terms of the permit under which it was
established, shall be in violation of this chapter, except when the lot, use of
land, or structure is in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   An existing lot, use of land, or structure which does not fully
comply with the provisions of this chapter, as amended, and either was lawfully
established under a previous zoning ordinance, created, or commenced during a
period of time when no valid zoning ordinance was in effect, or was lawfully
established under the jurisdiction of this chapter (before amendment), and
remains in compliance with the terms of a permit issued at that time, shall be
permitted to continue provided there is compliance with this section.
      (3)   A lawful use of land or structure which is under construction in
furtherance of the establishment of a building or structure before the
enactment of this chapter shall be permitted to continue as a nonconformity.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   No part of any nonconforming use shall be moved unless such
movement eliminates the nonconformity.
      (2)   If a nonconforming use is abandoned for any reason for a period of
more than nine months, any subsequent use shall conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
      (3)   A nonconforming use shall be determined to be abandoned if one or
more of the following conditions exists, and shall be deemed to constitute an
intent on the part of the property owner to abandon the nonconforming use:
         (a)   Utilities, such as water, gas and electricity to the property,
have been disconnected;
         (b)   The property, buildings, and grounds, have fallen into
disrepair;
         (c)   Signs or other indications of the existence of the nonconforming
use have been removed;
         (d)   Removal of equipment or fixtures which are necessary for the
operation of the nonconforming use;
         (e)   Other actions, which in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator,
constitute an intention of the part of the property owner or lessee to abandon
the nonconforming use.
      (4)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed in use to another
nonconformity. A nonconformity which is succeeded by a use in compliance with
this chapter shall lose its nonconformity and shall thereafter be continued in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   No nonconforming use shall be permitted to expand or enlarge the
size of any building or structure or extend the land area occupied by the
nonconforming use, unless approved by the Planning Commission after a public
hearing which meets the requirements of §
152.212(A), meets the general standards for making determinations of §
152.213(C), and is subject to the site plan review requirements of §§
152.190 through
152.195. [Amended 3-10-2008]
   (C)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   The expansion of a nonconforming structure shall be permitted to
rebuild, expand, or enlarge if the requirements of division (B)(5) of this
section are complied with.
      (2)   No nonconforming building shall undertake a structural change
requiring a construction permit, pursuant to the Village Building Code, as
amended, provided, however, that mechanical, electrical, plumbing, sewage
disposal, and well permits shall be issued when no structural alteration or
modification is involved; and provided the strengthening or restoring to safe
condition of any building, structure, or part thereof declared to be unsafe by
any public official charged with protecting the public health or safety may be
structurally altered to the extent necessary to comply with the order of that
public official.
      (3)   A nonconforming structure which is damaged by fire, collapse,
explosion, high winds, vandalism, or other means beyond the owner's control up
to 40% of market value may be repaired or replaced to its former condition.
Market value shall be determined by a certified appraisal submitted to the
Zoning Administrator by the applicant.
      (4)   A nonconforming structure shall not be moved in whole or in part
except when such moving results in full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (5)   Where a nonconforming setback of a structure is equal to or less
than one-half of the distance required by this chapter a nonconforming setback
may be extended along the same plane as the existing nonconforming setback,
provided that in so doing, the setback itself is not further reduced. [Amended
12-9-2013]
   (D)   Nonconforming lots of record.
      (1)   A legal nonconforming lot may be used for the purposes for which it
is zoned and shall be issued a development permit, provided that:
         (a)   If already less than the minimum requirements of this chapter, a
required lot area or lot width shall not be divided or reduced in dimensions or
area so as to increase its noncompliance with the minimum requirements of this
chapter.
         (b)   Any main building on such lot shall be located such that at
least two-thirds of the setback requirements of the district in which the lot
is located are met.
         (c)   A nonconforming lot of record may increase the lot coverage
requirement of the zoning district within which it is located by up to 10% to
allow reasonable reinvestment in the property.
      (2)   Contiguous nonconforming lots in common ownership.
         (a)   For any two or more nonconforming lots of record or combination
of lots and portions of lots of record, in existence at the time of the passage
of this chapter, or an amendment to it, the lands involved shall be considered
to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter if they:
            1.   Are in common ownership;
            2.   Are adjacent to each other or have continuous frontage, and;
            3.   Individually do not meet the lot width or lot area
requirements of this chapter.   
         (b)   Such parcels shall be combined into such lot or lots complying
as nearly as possible to the lot width and lot size requirements of this
chapter. No portion of such parcel shall be used or divided in a manner which
diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements of this chapter.
[Amended 11-2-2014]
§ 152.070 PERMITTED FRONT SETBACK REDUCTIONS.
   (A)   Where the established front yards for existing main buildings within
200 feet of the side lot line of, and in the same zoning district as, a subject
lot are less than the required front yard for the zoning district of the
subject lot, the required front yard for the subject lot shall be the average
front yard of existing main buildings entirely or partially within 200 feet of
the side lot lines of the subject lot, subject to divisions (B) and (C) of this
section.
   (B)   The front yard reduction permitted in division (A) of this section
shall only be permitted if there are two or more lots occupied by main
buildings within the area described for computing the average front yard.
   (C)   In no case shall the front yard setback resulting from the application
of these provisions, be less than 15 feet.
§ 152.071 PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   No person shall place a portable storage container on private
property without first obtaining a zoning permit from the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   There shall be no more than two portable storage containers placed
on individual property at any one time. Portable storage containers shall not
exceed eight feet in height and 160 square feet in size.
      (3)   Portable storage containers shall be placed only in the driveway
and be set back a minimum of ten feet from the front property line.
      (4)   No portable storage container shall remain on the site in excess of
14 consecutive days from the date of the permit and no more than 60 days per
year.
      (5)   Portable storage containers utilized in conjunction with a
construction project shall meet the requirements of §
152.080 and be removed within 12 working days after completion of work on the
site.
      (6)   Portable storage containers shall not be permitted for use as a
detached permanent storage building, utility building workshop, hobby shop or
other similar use as defined under §
152.051, Accessory Buildings and Structures.
   (B)   Non residential districts.
      (1)   Portable storage containers shall meet all the requirements
described in division (A) of this section with the exception of division (A)(2)
of this section.
      (2)   Portable storage containers shall not be utilized for any form of
material processing and/or material application such as, but not limited to,
painting, printing, machining, metal fabrication or similar activity.
[Amended 8-11-2008]
§ 152.072 PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   (A)   Architectural elements attached to and necessary to the integrity of
the building, or the health or safety of the occupants, such as ramps for the
disabled, cornices, eaves, gutters, chimneys, pilasters, unenclosed steps, fire
escapes, and similar features shall be permitted to encroach upon the minimum
setback requirements of this chapter, provided such projection into a required
front or rear yard area is no closer than ten feet from a street right-of-way
line or rear lot line. No encroachment shall be permitted into the side setback
of the lot.
   (B)   Terraces, patios, porches, and decks shall be permitted to encroach
upon the minimum yard area and setback requirements of this chapter provided
they are:
      (1)   Attached to the main building;
      (2)   Not covered with a roof;
      (3)   Elevated no more than 30 inches above the average surrounding final
grade;
      (4)   Not fully enclosed by a wall or fence over five and one-half feet
in height;
      (5)   Located no closer than ten feet from a street right-of-way line or
rear lot line; and
      (6)   Do not encroach into the side setback of the lot.
   (C)   Terraces, patios, porches, and decks that are enclosed (covered with a
roof), not including steps leading to such structures, shall be attached to and
considered part of the main building and comply with all regulations applicable
to main buildings.
   (D)   Those structures covered in divisions (A) and (B) of this section
shall not be considered nonconforming, and therefore, shall be permitted to be
rebuilt even if destroyed by an act of God or by the owner/occupant of the
structure.
§ 152.073 REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS OUTSIDE
MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   Any single-family dwelling, whether constructed and erected on a lot, or a
manufactured home, shall be permitted outside a manufactured home park only if
it complies with all of the following requirements:
   (A)   The dwelling shall meet the minimum square footage requirements for
the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Design features:
      (1)   The minimum width across any front, side, or rear architectural
elevation shall be at least 24 continuous feet of exterior wall.
      (2)   All dwellings shall have either a roof overhang of not less than
ten inches on all sides, or alternatively with window sills and roof drainage
systems concentrating roof drainage at collection points along the sides of the
dwelling.
      (3)   The dwelling shall contain permanently attached steps connected to
exterior door areas or to porches connected to said door areas where a
difference in elevation requires the same.
      (4)   The dwelling shall not contain additions or rooms or other areas
which are not constructed with similar quality work as the original structure,
including permanent attachment to the principal structure and construction of a
foundation as required herein.
      (5)   The dwelling shall contain an interior storage area in a habitable
basement or cellar located under the dwelling, or in a defined storage room
space separate from closet areas, garage, utility or furnace rooms. The minimum
storage area shall be equal to 10% of the square footage of the dwelling or 100
square feet, whichever shall be less.
      (6)   Laundry facilities shall be required.
   (C)   The dwelling shall conform to the Village Building Code and all other
pertinent construction and fire codes. Where a dwelling is required by law to
comply with any federal or state standards or regulations for construction and
where such standards or regulations allow standards of construction which are
less stringent than those imposed by the Building Code in effect in the
village, then in that event, the less stringent federal or state standard or
regulation shall apply. Additionally, all dwellings shall meet or exceed all
applicable roof snow load and strength requirements.
   (D)   In the case of a manufactured home, all construction and all plumbing,
electrical apparatus and insulation within and connected to said manufactured
home shall be of a type and quality conforming to the "Mobile Home Construction
and Safety Standards" as promulgated by the United States Department of Housing
and Urban Development, being 24 CFR 3280, and as from time to time such
standards may be amended.
   (E)   The dwelling shall be placed upon and secured to a permanent
foundation in accordance with the Village Building Code. The area between the
grade elevation of the lot and the structure shall have a wall of the same
perimeter dimensions of the dwelling and constructed of such materials and type
as required in the applicable code for single-family dwellings.
   (F)   If the dwelling has wheels, towing mechanisms or undercarriages, they
shall be removed.
   (G)   The dwelling shall be connected to a public sanitary sewer.
   (H)   The dwelling shall be aesthetically compatible in design and
appearance with other residences in the vicinity.
      (1)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined in
the first instance by the Zoning Administrator upon review of the plans (which
may include elevational sketches or photographs) submitted for a particular
dwelling, subject to appeal by an aggrieved party to the Zoning Board of
Appeals within a period of 15 days from the receipt of notice of said Zoning
Administrator's decision.
      (2)   Any determination of compatibility shall be based upon the
standards set forth in this division regarding dwellings as well as the
character, design and appearance of one or more residential dwellings located
outside of mobile home parks within 900 feet of the subject dwelling where such
area is developed with dwellings to the extent of not less than 20% of the lots
situated within said area; or where said area is not so developed, by the
character, design and appearance of one or more residential dwellings located
outside of manufactured home parks throughout the village.
   (I)   The requirements of this section shall not be construed to prohibit
innovative design concepts involving such matters as solar energy, view, unique
land contour, or relief from the common or standard designed home.
   (J)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to manufactured homes located
in a state licensed manufactured home park except as required by state or
federal law or otherwise specifically required in any village ordinance
pertaining to such parks.
§ 152.074 REQUIRED AREA OR SPACE.
   No lot, yard, court, parking area or other space shall be so reduced in area
or dimension as to make said area or dimension less than the minimum required
under this chapter. If already less than the minimum required under this
chapter, said area or dimension shall not be further reduced.
§ 152.075 REQUIRED WATER SUPPLY AND SANITARY SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   No structure for human occupancy shall be erected, altered, or moved upon
any premises and used in whole or in part for residential, assembly, business,
industrial, institutional, mercantile or storage purposes unless the water
supply and waste water disposal system conforms with the requirements of the
Michigan Department of Public Health, and Village of Fowler ordinance
applicable to public sanitary sewer and public water supply.
§ 152.076 SEASONAL USES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, upon receiving an application, may issue a
permit for the temporary sale of merchandise in any nonresidential district,
related to a seasonal or periodic event. Such seasonal uses shall include the
sale of Christmas trees, fireworks, and similar activities, but shall not
include roadside stands.
   (B)   In considering a request for a temporary permit, the Zoning
Administrator must determine that the operation of such a use is seasonal in
nature and will not be established as a permanent use. The Zoning Administrator
will also determine:
      (1)   That the use does not have an unreasonable detrimental effect upon
adjacent properties;
      (2)   That the use does not impact the nature of the surrounding
neighborhood;
      (3)   That access to the area will not constitute a traffic hazard due to
ingress or egress; and
      (4)   That adequate off-street parking is available to accommodate the
use.
   (C)   Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than 60 days and
may be renewed by the Zoning Administrator for up to one additional 30 day
period, provided the season or event to which the use relates is continued.
§ 152.077 SITE CONDOMINIUMS.
   (A)   A site condominium unit shall be a unit created by the division of
land on the basis of condominium ownership which is not subject to the
provisions of the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended.
   (B)   A site condominium unit shall be treated as a separate lot or parcel
and may have such buildings constructed thereon and such uses conducted thereon
as allowed in its zoning district provided the unit meets the district
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (C)   A site plan, including all the condominium documents required for the
establishment of a condominium, shall be reviewed and approved by the Village
Council in accordance with §§
152.190 through
152.195.
   (D)   Monuments shall be set at all boundary corners and deflection points
and at all road right-of-way intersection corner and deflection points. Lot
irons shall be set at all condominium site corners and deflection points of
condominium site lines.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator and the Village Engineer may grant a delay
in the setting of required monuments or irons for a reasonable time, but not to
exceed one year from the date of approval by the Village Council, on condition
that the developer deposit with the Village Clerk cash, a certified check, or
an irrevocable bank letter of credit running to the Village of Fowler,
whichever the developer selects, in an amount as determined from time to time
by resolution of the Village Council.
      (2)   Such deposit shall be returned to the developer upon receipt of a
certificate by a surveyor registered in the State of Michigan that the
monuments and irons have been set as required, within the time specified.
      (3)   If the developer defaults, the Village Council shall promptly
engage a registered surveyor to set the monuments and irons in the ground as
shown on the condominium site plan, at the developer's expense.
   (E)   All rights-of-way and utility easements shall be described separately
from individual condominium sites and shall be accurately delineated by
bearings and distances on the condominium subdivision plan and the final site
plan.
      (1)   The rights-of-way and utility easements shall be separately
designed for their individual purpose, such as access, roadway, location,
installation, maintenance and replacing of public utilities.
      (2)   The developer shall dedicate to the Village of Fowler all easements
for utilities. Water, sewer and electrical easements may be placed within
streets, subject to the approval of the Village Engineer and the standards of
the Village of Fowler.
      (3)   All streets and roads proposed for any site condominium shall be
developed within the minimum design, construction, inspection, approval, and
maintenance requirements of this chapter, the Subdivision Control Ordinance,
and the comparable requirements of the Clinton County Road Commission, if
applicable.
§ 152.078 STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational equipment may be parked outside of an enclosed building on any
lot within a residential district provided that the following requirements are
met:
   (A)   If located on an interior lot recreational vehicle shall not be
located within the front yard. If located on a corner lot, recreational vehicle
shall not be located in the yard of the secondary front lot line facing the
street. If located on a through lot, recreational vehicle shall not be located
in the front yard.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, recreational vehicle
may be parked within any yard, for cleaning, loading, or unloading purposes for
not more than 72 hours within any seven day period provided that clear vision
areas are maintained and sidewalks are not blocked.
§ 152.079 STORAGE AND REPAIR OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The carrying out of repair, restoration and maintenance procedures or
projects on vehicles in any residential zoning district shall be conducted
entirely within the interior of a building.
   (B)   Inoperable or unlicensed vehicles and vehicle parts shall be stored
inside a building.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, tenant or lessee of any lot in any
residential zoning district to permit the open storage or parking outside of a
building of semi-tractor trucks and/or semi-trailers, bulldozers, earth
carriers, cranes or any other similar equipment or machinery, unless parked
thereon while in use for construction being conducted on such lot. No
construction material/equipment including 2x4's, plywood, etc., shall be openly
stored in a residential district unless being used for current construction
projects.
§ 152.080 SWIMMING POOLS.
   Pools shall be constructed in conformance with the Village Building Code and
shall conform to the setback requirements for accessory uses pursuant to §
152.051. Pools shall be located in accordance with the requirements of the
Michigan Department of Public Health.
§ 152.081 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Mobile offices, tool sheds, storage trailers, shall be permitted during the
time of actual construction provided they are located outside of a street
r.o.w., clear vision areas side/rear setback areas. These structures shall be
removed within 12 working days after the completion or abandonment of
construction work on the property.
§ 152.082 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY IN VEHICULAR DWELLING.
   (A)   No building or structure erected or moved upon a lot which does not
meet the requirements of this chapter shall be used or occupied as a dwelling.
   (B)   The owner or renter of any premises upon which a dwelling is situated
may permit the parking of an occupied recreational vehicle (RV), motor home,
mobile home, or travel trailer, of a guest or visitor on the premises for a
period not exceeding a total of 15 days in any period of 365 consecutive days,
provided that a permit is applied for by the owner of said property and issued
by the Zoning Administrator. Application for such permit shall include the
serial number and license number of the unit, the name and permanent address of
the owner thereof, and a statement warranting that the occupants of the unit
shall have unrestricted use of the sewer and water supply facilities of the
dwelling.
§ 152.083 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   (A)   Commercial wireless communication towers may be considered either a
principal or accessory use, as a special land use only on public property. This
includes mounting onto a publicly or privately owned tower or publicly elevated
storage tank or tower. All commercial wireless communication towers enacted
after this chapter must provide collocation.
   (B)   Commercial wireless communication towers are only allowed on municipal
property and require a municipal franchise agreement. Tower lease areas shall
be maintained in a neat and orderly manner and shall be completely fenced.
Effective landscaping and screening shall be used around fenced areas. Wireless
communication equipment shall be stored inside secured shelters and shall use
natural materials and neutral colors for the exterior. Leased areas shall be
appropriately lit.
   (C)   A privately owned, non-commercial tower may be erected as an accessory
use in any district, provided such tower does not exceed 60 feet in height, and
is owned and operated by a federally-licensed amateur radio station operator or
is used exclusively for receive only antennas. These towers shall not have
support wires extending out horizontally from the tower more than ten feet in
any direction and shall be safely maintained. Support wires and towers may not
be erected or placed closer than ten feet to any side or rear lot line. Support
wires and towers are prohibited from being located in the front yard. Towers
must be erected, mounted and maintained in a safe manner.
ZONING DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 152.090 ZONE DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the Village of Fowler is hereby divided
into the following zone districts:
Zoning Ordinance Sections Zoning District Name District Symbol
Zoning Ordinance Sections Zoning District Name          District Symbol
152.115-                  Single-Family Residential     R-1
152.118
152.130-                  Single, Two & Multiple Family R-2
152.133                   Residential
152.140-                  Central Business District     C-1
152.143
152.150-                  General Commercial            C-2
152.153
152.160-                  Industrial                    I
152.163
152.170-                  Planned Unit Development      PUD
152.182
 
§ 152.091 ZONE DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   Boundaries. The boundaries of the districts identified in this
subchapter are hereby established as shown on a map entitled "The Zoning Map of
the Village of Fowler, Michigan" which accompanies this chapter and is made a
part of this chapter. Except where referenced on said map to a street line,
water body, or other designated line by dimensions shown on said map, the
district boundary lines follow lot lines or the center lines of streets or
alleys or railroad rights-of-way as they existed at the time of adoption of
this chapter.
   (B)   Boundary interpretation. Matters of interpretation concerning the
exact location of district boundary lines shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
§ 152.092 LOT DIVIDED BY ZONE DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1785.png]
 
   Where a district boundary line, as established in this chapter or as shown
on the Zoning Map, divides a lot or lots in common ownership and of record at
the time of enactment of this chapter the least restrictive use shall be
considered as extending to the entire lot, if the more restrictive portion of
such lot is entirely within 25 feet or less of said dividing district boundary
line. The use so extended shall be deemed to be conforming. If the more
restrictive portion of the lot is not entirely within 25 feet of said dividing
district boundary line, the various portions of the lot shall be zoned
according to the underlying zone district classifications.
§ 152.093 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Whenever any area is annexed into the Village of Fowler, one of the
following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Land zoned previous to annexation shall be a district of the class to
which it most nearly conforms under this chapter. The Planning Commission shall
recommend the classification to the Village Council, who shall determine by
resolution the zoning classification into which the property will be placed.
   (B)   Land not zoned prior to annexation shall be automatically classified
as a PUD in a district of the class to which it most nearly conforms under the
chapter. This shall be determined by the Planning Commission and shall remain
in effect until a zoning map for the area has been adopted by the Village
Council. The Planning Commission shall recommend appropriate zoning districts
for such area within three months after Village Council has referred the matter
to the Commission.
§ 152.094 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever all or part of a street, alley or other public way is vacated, it
shall automatically become a part of the district to which it attaches. If a
vacated area is bordered by two different districts, the area is divided along
a line half way between them according to the adjacent zone, unless the Village
Council shall otherwise designate.
§ 152.095 ZONE DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   Zone districts and district standards are enumerated and described in §§
152.115 through
152.182.
R-1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.115 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide a low-density, single family
residential living environment and to foster stable, high quality
neighborhoods. At the same time the regulations for this district recognize the
need to preserve existing housing stock, allow the full development of older
subdivisions, and provide new quality housing. Certain non-residential uses are
allowed to further the stability of residential neighborhoods.
§ 152.116 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the R-1 District may be used for the following
purposes by right:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (B)   Day care, family homes.
   (C)   State licensed residential family care facilities.
   (D)   Home occupations, in accordance with the general provisions stated in
§§
152.050 through
152.083.
   (E)   Public parks.
   (F)   Farms.
   (G)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses (to the permitted and
special land uses).
§ 152.117 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the R-1 District may be used for the following
purposes when approved by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
requirements of the Special Land Use subchapter:
   (A)   Utility and public service buildings, without storage yards, but not
including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems.
   (B)   Private, non-commercial or institutional recreation parks and
recreation centers.
   (C)   Golf courses.
   (D)   Schools.
   (E)   Bed and breakfast inns.
   (F)   Hospitals, including associated offices and related uses, such as
pharmacies, clinics, and other similar uses integral to such use.
   (G)   Nursing, or convalescent homes.
   (H)   Churches, synagogues, temples, and other religious places of worship.
   (I)   Lodges, and private clubs.
   (J)   Governmental buildings and libraries.
   (K)   State licensed residential group facilities.
   (L)   Cemeteries.
   (M)   Two family dwellings when approved as a special land use and developed
as part of a planned unit development under §§
152.170 through
152.182. [Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.118 SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All permitted uses and special land uses are subject to the following site
development requirements:
   (A)   Site plan review is required in accordance with §§
152.190 through
152.195.
   (B)   Landscaping and screening are required in accordance with §§
152.225 through
152.230.
   (C)   Applicable general provision of §§
152.050 through
152.083.
   (D)   Parking is required in accordance with §
152.240 through
152.256.
   (E)   Signs are permitted in accordance with the requirements of §§
152.265 through
152.270.
   (F)   Unless not required by any other ordinance, sidewalks shall be
constructed on all sides of the property abutting a public street, in
accordance with village standards. The Planning Commission may waive the
requirement for a sidewalk when, in the opinion of the Commission, no purpose
would be served by the sidewalk.
   (G)   Setbacks, height, area, and lot dimensions are required as noted
below.
Residential Buildings District Regulations
Residential Buildings                              District Regulations
Minimum lot area                                   7,500 square feet
Minimum lot width                                  75 feet
Maximum height                                     35 feet (2-1/2 stories)
Front yard setback                                 25 feet
Side yard setback                                  10 feet (each side)
Rear yard setback                                  35 feet
Minimum floor area                                 1,200 square feet (per unit)
Minimum floor area on ground floor if greater than 800 square feet
one story
Maximum lot coverage (includes accessory           35%
buildings)
 
Non-Residential Buildings    District Regulations
Minimum lot area          10,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         75 feet
Maximum height            35 feet (2-1/2 stories)
All yard setbacks         Same as for residential buildings or equal to height
                          of main building, whichever is greater.
Maximum lot coverage      35%
 
R-2 SINGLE, TWO, AND MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.130 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide additional variety in housing
opportunities and choices. The R-2 District should also provide high-quality
residential dwellings. The regulations for this district recognize the need to
provide affordable housing opportunities. Non-residential uses are only allowed
to the extent that they serve to improve this residential district.
§ 152.131 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the R-2 District may be used for the following
purposes by right:
   (A)   Single-family detached dwellings.
   (B)   Two-family dwellings, including conversions of single family dwellings
to two family dwellings.
   (C)   Public parks.
   (D)   Day care, family homes.
   (E)   State licensed residential family care facilities.
   (F)   Home occupations, in accordance with the general provisions of §§
152.050 through
152.083.
   (G)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses (to the permitted and
special land uses).
   (H)   Manufactured home parks.
[Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.132 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the R-2 District may be used for the following
purposes when approved by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
requirements of the Special Land Use subchapter:
   (A)   Utility and public service buildings, without storage yards, but not
including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems.
   (B)   Private, non-commercial, institutional or community recreation parks
and recreation centers.
   (C)   Schools.
   (D)   Bed and breakfast inns.
   (E)   Hospitals, including associated offices and related uses, such as
pharmacies, clinics, and other similar uses integral to such use.
   (F)   Nursing or convalescent homes.
   (G)   Churches, synagogues, temples and other similar places of religious
worship.
   (H)   Lodges, and private clubs.
   (I)   Governmental buildings and libraries.
   (J)   State licensed residential group facilities.
   (K)   Day care, group homes.
   (L)   Funeral homes.
   (M)   Cemeteries.
   (N)   Multiple family dwellings. [Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.133 SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All permitted uses and special land uses are subject to the following site
development requirements:
   (A)   Site plan review is required in accordance with §§
152.190 through
152.195.
   (B)   Landscaping and screening are required in accordance with §§
152.225 through
152.230.
   (C)   Applicable general provisions of §§
152.050 through
152.083.
   (D)   Parking is required in accordance with §§
152.240 through
152.256.
   (E)   Signs are permitted in accordance with the requirements of §§
152.265 through
152.270.
   (F)   Unless not required by any other ordinance, sidewalks shall be
constructed on all sides of the property abutting a public street, in
accordance with village standards. The Planning Commission may waive the
requirement for a sidewalk when, in the opinion of the Commission, no purpose
would be served by the sidewalk.
   (G)   Setbacks, height, area, and lot dimensions are required as noted
below.
Residential Buildings - Single and Two Family Dwellings District
                                                        Regulations
Residential Buildings - Single and Two   District
Family Dwellings                         Regulations
Minimum lot area                         7,500 square feet per dwelling unit
Minimum lot width                        75 feet
Maximum height                           35 feet (2-1/2 stories)
Front yard setback                       25 feet
Side yard setback                        10 feet (each side)
Rear yard setback                        35 feet
Minimum floor area                       800 square feet (per dwelling unit)
Minimum floor area on ground floor if    720 square feet
greater than one story
Maximum lot coverage (includes accessory 35%
buildings)
Residential Buildings - Multiple Family Dwellings District
                                                  Regulations
Residential Buildings - Multiple Family  District
Dwellings                                Regulations
Minimum lot area                         10,000 square feet
Maximum density*                         12 dwelling units per acre*
Maximum height                           35 feet (2-1/2 stories)
Front yard setback                       25 feet, or equal to the height of the
                                         main building, whichever is greater
                                         15 feet (each side), or equal to the
Side yard setback                        height of the main building, whichever
                                         is greater
Rear yard setback                        35 feet
                                         1 bedroom - 600 square feet
Minimum floor area                       2 bedrooms - 720 square feet
                                         3 bedrooms - 850 square feet
                                         4 bedrooms - 1,000 square feet
Distance between buildings               25 feet, or equal to the height of the
                                         tallest building, whichever is greater
Maximum building length                  120 feet
Maximum lot coverage (includes accessory 40%
buildings)
* The area used for computing density shall be the total site area exclusive of
any dedicated public right-of-way of either interior or abutting streets.
 
Non-Residential Buildings                District Regulations
Minimum lot area                         10,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                        80 feet
Maximum height                           35 feet (2-1/2 stories)
                                         Same as for residential buildings or
All yard setbacks                        equal to height of main building,
                                         whichever is greater
Maximum lot coverage (includes accessory 35%
buildings)
 
C-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.140 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide a wide range of goods and services to
residents of Fowler as well as surrounding areas in a downtown setting. This
district is characterized by a compact shopping area with on-street, municipal,
and private parking areas. Emphasis is placed on pedestrian safety, convenient
access, and ease of vehicular circulation.
§ 152.141 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the C-1 District may be used for the following
purposes by right:
   (A)   Office buildings for any of the following occupations:
      (1)   Executive, administrative, professional, designers, accounting,
drafting, and other similar professional and service activities.
      (2)   Medical, optical, dental, and veterinary offices and clinics.
   (B)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, and other similar
uses, excluding those with drive-through facilities.
   (C)   Personal service establishments conducting services on the premises,
such as barber, beauty shops, shoe repair, tailoring and dry cleaning, fitness
centers, travel agencies, and other similar uses.
   (D)   Restaurants, excluding those with drive through facilities.
   (E)   Coin operated laundries.
   (F)   Governmental buildings, libraries, and public parks.
   (G)   Retail businesses conducting business entirely within an enclosed
building.
   (H)   Existing residential uses, subject to the setback requirements of the
R-1 District.
   (I)   Bed and breakfast inns.
   (J)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses (to the permitted and
special land uses).
§ 152.142 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the C-1 District may be used for the following
purposes when approved by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
requirements of the Special Land Use subchapter:
   (A)   Open air businesses.
   (B)   Restaurants with drive through facilities.
   (C)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, and other similar
uses with drive-through facilities.
   (D)   Vehicle service, towing, and repair facilities. [Amended 8-11-2008]
   (E)   Vehicle service and repair facilities.
   (F)   Churches, synagogues, temples and other similar places of religious
worship.
   (G)   Residential dwellings above retail businesses.
   (H)   Indoor theaters and commercial recreation centers, such as bowling
alleys, skating rinks, and other similar uses.
   (I)   Hotels and motels.
   (J)   Schools.
   (K)   Lodges and private clubs.
   (L)   Any non-conforming uses, structures, or lots in the C-1 Central
Business District may be permitted to rebuild, enlarge, or expand if the
requirements of §
152.069(B)(5) are complied with. [Amended 12-9-2013]
§ 152.143 SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All permitted uses and special land uses are subject to the following site
development requirements:
   (A)   Site plan review is required in accordance with §§
152.190 through
152.195.
   (B)   Landscaping and screening are required in accordance with §§
152.225 through
152.230.
   (C)   Applicable general provisions of §§
152.050 through
152.083.
   (D)   Parking is required in accordance with §§
152.240 through
152.256. No parking or material storage shall be permitted in the front yard
unless approved by the Planning Commission as part of a site plan review.
[Amended 8-11-2008]
   (E)   Signs are permitted in accordance with the requirements of §§
152.265 through
152.270.
   (F)   Unless not required by any other ordinance, sidewalks shall be
constructed on all sides of the property abutting a public street, in
accordance with village standards.
   (G)   Setbacks, height, area, and lot dimensions are required as noted below
unless greater setbacks are required by the Landscape subchapter.
C-1 DISTRICT REGULATIONS
C-1 DISTRICT REGULATIONS
                               Commercial uses - 2,000 square feet;
Minimum lot size               Mixed residential uses - 2,000 square
                               feet;
                               Residential uses - 7,500 square feet.
Minimum lot width              None required
Maximum height                 35 feet
                               None except for corner lots (see general
Front setback                  provisions) and existing residential
                               uses (use R-1 standards)
Side setback                   None required - see Landscape subchapter
Rear setback                   25 feet
Maximum lot coverage (includes Residential uses - 35%
accessory buildings)
 
C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.150 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide a wide range of goods and services to
the residents of Fowler as well as surrounding areas. These uses will generally
be more intensive and less compatible with residential uses. These uses will
have appropriate signs, adequate lighting levels, attractive landscaping, and
convenient parking areas. Special attention will be given to the location of
access points and other traffic and pedestrian conditions to ensure that such
businesses are operated in a safe and efficient manner. Where possible, access
points, parking areas, and other common features will be combined to serve more
than one business.
§ 152.151 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the C-2 District may be used for the following
purposes by right:
   (A)   All permitted uses in the C-1, including accessory buildings,
structures and uses.
   (B)   Existing residential uses, subject to the setback requirements of the
R-1 District.
§ 152.152 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the C-2 District may be used for the following
purposes when approved by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
requirements of §§
152.280 through
152.287:
   (A)   All special land uses allowed in the C-1 District and:
   (B)   Open air businesses, including building materials, supplies, and
similar uses.
   (C)   Vehicle wash establishments.
   (D)   Commercial storage warehouse.
   (E)   State licensed residential group facility.
   (F)   Nursing or convalescent homes.
   (G)   Veterinary hospital, clinic and indoor kennels.
   (H)   Day care, group or commercial.
   (I)   Greenhouses or nurseries.
§ 152.153 SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All permitted uses and special land uses are subject to the following site
development requirements:
   (A)   Site plan review is required in accordance with §§
152.190 through
152.195.
   (B)   Landscaping and screening are required in accordance with §§
152.225 through
152.230.
   (C)   Applicable general provisions of §§
152.050 through
152.083.
   (D)   Parking is required in accordance with §§
152.240 through
152.256. No parking or material storage shall be permitted in the front yard
unless approved by the Planning Commission as part of a site plan review.
[Amended 8-11-2008]
   (E)   Signs are permitted in accordance with the requirements of §§
152.265 through
152.270.
   (F)   Unless not required by any other ordinance, sidewalks shall be
constructed on all sides of the property abutting a public street, in
accordance with village standards. The Planning Commission may
waive the requirement for a sidewalk when, in the opinion of the Commission, no
purpose would be served by the sidewalk.
   (G)   Setbacks, height, area, and lot dimensions are required as noted below
unless greater setbacks are required by the Landscape subchapter.
C-2 DISTRICT REGULATIONS
C-2 DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Minimum lot area     10,000 square feet
Minimum lot width    100 feet
Maximum height       35 feet (2-1/2 stories)
Front yard setback   25 feet - see Landscape subchapter
Side yard setback    15 feet (each side) see Landscape subchapter
Rear yard setback    25 feet - see Landscape subchapter
Maximum lot coverage 40% - does not include parking and landscaping
 
I - INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.160 INTENT.
   This district is intended to provide exclusive areas for industrial uses in
areas served by adequate infrastructure. Uses in this district are to provide
for various types of light industrial and manufacturing uses, wholesale
businesses, warehouses, and other uses compatible with one another and with
surrounding land uses and with an absence of objectionable external effects.
These uses are characterized by moderate lot coverage, adequate setbacks,
environmental sensitivity, and creative site design. The regulations are
defined to exclude uses which would have a detrimental effect upon the orderly
development and functioning of the district, as well as surrounding land uses.
§ 152.161 PERMITTED USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the I District may be used for the following
purposes by right:
   (A)   Industrial plants manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
treating, or assembling the following:
      (1)   Agricultural products, including but not limited to, the production
in greenhouses of flowers, plants, shrubs, trees, or other similar living
products.
      (2)   Food and kindred products including meat, dairy, fruit, vegetable,
seafood, bakery, confectionery, beverage, and similar products (but not
including slaughtering of animals, or rendering or refining of fats and oils).
      (3)   Furniture and fixtures.
      (4)   Printing, publishing, and allied industries.
      (5)   Electrical machinery, equipment and supplies, electronic components
and accessories.
      (6)   Engineering, measuring, optical, medical, scientific, photographic,
and similar instruments and goods.
      (7)   Cut stone and stone products related to monuments.
   (B)   Industrial plants manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
treating, or assembling materials or products from previously prepared
materials including the following:
      (1)   Textile mill products, including woven fabric, knit goods, dyeing
and finishing, floor coverings, yard and thread, and other similar products.
      (2)   Apparel and other finished products including clothing, leather
goods, furnishing and canvas products.
      (3)   Lumber and wood products including mill work, prefabricated
structural work products and containers.
      (4)   Paper and paperboard containers and products.
      (5)   Biological products, drugs, medicinal chemicals and pharmaceutical
preparations.
      (6)   Glass products.
      (7)   Jewelry, silverware and plated ware, musical instruments and parts,
toys, amusement, sporting and athletic goods, pens, pencils, and other office
and artist supplies and materials, notions, signs, and advertising displays.
      (8)   Pottery, figurines, and other ceramic products using only
previously pulverized clay.
      (9)   Fabricated metal products, except heavy machinery and
transportation equipment.
   (C)   Wholesale businesses, including automotive equipment, drugs,
chemicals, dry goods, apparel, food, farm products, electrical goods, hardware,
machinery, equipment, metals, paper products and lumber.
   (D)   Warehousing, refrigerated and general storage.
   (E)   Laundries, laundry services, and dry cleaning and dyeing plants,
excluding retail/service outlets serving the general public.
   (F)   Office buildings for executive, administrative, professional,
accounting, drafting, and other similar professional activities.
   (G)   Research and development facilities, including production activities,
which shall be limited to 50% of the floor area of the main building.
   (H)   Trade or industrial schools.
   (I)   New building materials sales and storage, outdoor storage yards,
including building trade contractors, and related storage yards.
   (J)   Body shops.
   (K)   Utilities and communications installations such as electrical
receiving or transforming stations, microwave towers, and television and radio
towers.
   (L)   Utility and public service buildings, including storage yards, but not
including essential public services such as poles, wires, and underground
utility systems.
   (M)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, and other similar
uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator, including those with drive-
through facilities.
   (N)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses (to the permitted and
special land uses).
   (O)   Commercial storage warehouses. [Amended 11-2-2014]
§ 152.162 SPECIAL LAND USES.
   Land and/or buildings in the I District may be used for the following
purposes when approved by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
requirements of the Special Land Use subchapter:
   (A)   Truck and freight terminals, including truck/trailer storage and
maintenance.
   (B)   Bulk oil, propane, and gasoline storage and distribution.
   (C)   Junkyards.
   (D)   Adult uses.
   (E)   Slaughtering of animals.
   (F)   Stamping plants.
   (G)   Heavy machinery.
   (H)   Fiberglass fabricating.
   (I)   Composting centers.
§ 152.163 SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All permitted uses and special land uses are subject to the following site
development requirements:
   (A)   Site plan review is required in accordance with §§
152.190 through
152.195.
   (B)   Landscaping and screening are required in accordance with §§
152.225 through
152.229. [Amended 4-17-2017]
   (C)   Applicable general provisions of §§
152.050 through
152.083.
   (D)   Parking is required in accordance with §§
152.240 through
152.256. No parking shall be permitted in the required front yard.
   (E)   Signs are permitted in accordance with the requirements of §§
152.265 through
152.270.
   (F)   Unless not required by any other ordinance, sidewalks shall be
constructed on all sides of the property abutting a public street, in
accordance with village standards. The Planning Commission may waive the
requirement for a sidewalk when, in the opinion of the Commission, no purpose
would be served by the sidewalk.
   (G)   Setbacks, height, area, and lot dimensions are required as noted below
unless greater setbacks are required by the Landscape subchapter.
I DISTRICT REGULATIONS
I DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Minimum lot area     1 acre (43,560 square feet)
Minimum lot width    100 feet
                     40 feet + 1 foot additional height for each 1 foot of
Maximum height       additional setback (all yards) beyond the setback required
                     by this section
Front yard setback   25 feet - see Landscape subchapter
Side yard setback    0 feet (each side) see Landscape subchapter
Rear yard setback    0 feet - see Landscape subchapter
Maximum lot coverage 70%
[Amended 4-17-2017]
PUD - PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 152.170 INTENT.
   (A)   Planned unit developments are promoted in the Village of Fowler as a
way for the village to encourage high quality development with an emphasis on
enhanced architectural and site design, landscaping, pedestrian, motorized and
non-motorized activities. In creating a "win-win" situation, the developer may
expect a cooperative working relationship from the village by receiving relief
from typical zoning ordinance standards, such as setbacks and parking
requirements.
   (B)   Planned unit developments (PUDs) may be established as distinct zoning
districts when approved by the Village Council in accordance with the ordinance
procedures. It is the intent of this district to provide for flexibility in the
regulation of land development; to encourage innovation in land use and variety
in design, layout, and type of structures; to achieve economy and efficiency in
the use of land, natural resources, energy, and the provision of public
services and utilities; to encourage useful open space; and to create better
living, working, and shopping environments. In order to accomplish these
objectives, this subchapter permits the relaxation of the conventional
requirements found in other zoning districts. The use of land and the
construction and use of buildings and other structures as planned unit
developments shall be in conformance with the procedures, standards,
requirements, and conditions for eligibility contained in this subchapter.
§ 152.171 QUALIFYING CONDITIONS.
   Any development which fails to meet the following qualifying conditions, at
a minimum, shall not be considered for the PUD District:
   (A)   The PUD site shall not be less than three acres of fully contiguous
property not separated by a public street, railroad right-of-way, or other such
feature or barrier. If the PUD is to contain a mixture of residential and non-
residential uses, the minimum required area shall be 12 acres. The Planning
Commission may consider a PUD on lesser acreage if it is clear that the
proposed PUD substantially provides for the intent of a PUD as stated in this
subchapter. In addition, the Planning Commission may use the same intent
section of the Zoning Ordinance when considering a PUD with property that may
be separated by a public road, railroad, or other such feature or barrier. It
would be up to the applicant to prove why, for example, the state highway (M-
21) separating the acreage owned by the applicant, would not restrict the
applicant's ability to develop a cohesive PUD. Recreational amenities such as
golf courses and health clubs, and ancillary commercial activities such as club
houses and pro shops, shall not be considered non-residential uses for purposes
of this section.
   (B)   All PUD's shall be served by public water and sanitary sewer
facilities.
   (C)   The tract of land for which a PUD application is received must be
either in one ownership or the subject of an application filed jointly by the
owners of all properties.
   (D)   If the Village of Fowler establishes a Master Plan, then the proposed
uses of the PUD must be substantially consistent with the Master Plan
descriptions for the subject property.
   (E)   The PUD must provide for integrated, safe and abundant pedestrian
access and movement within the PUD and to adjacent properties.
   (F)   The PUD should provide for coordinated and innovative architectural
styles, building forms and building relationships.
   (G)   The PUD should provide for enhanced landscaping efforts by the
development. Examples include efforts to preserve the natural landscape,
providing for tree lined streets, decorative landscaping around structures and
focal landscape areas.
   (H)   Open space requirements:
      (1)   The PUD development shall contain usable open space in an amount
equal to at least 20% of the total PUD site. The Planning Commission may
consider a PUD with a lesser amount of open space if it is clear that the
proposed PUD substantially provides for the intent of a PUD as stated in this
subchapter. It is noted that open space is a very important element of a PUD
and reductions to the open space provision should be granted only as a result
of specific, clearly documented reasons (i.e. the PUD may have already been
reduced from 7.5 acres to 2 acres and since the project will be located in the
downtown, the 20% open space provision would detract from building continuity,
historic preservation efforts, etc.).
      (2)   Usable open space shall not include required yards or buffers,
parking areas, drives, rights-of-way, utility or road easements, storm water
detention ponds, and structures.
      (3)   Such open space shall be permanently set aside for the benefit,
use, and enjoyment of present and future occupants of the PUD through covenant,
deed restriction, open space easement, or similar legal instrument acceptable
to the village; or, if agreed to by the Village Council, the open space may be
conveyed to the village for the use of the general public.
§ 152.172 PERMITTED USES.
   Any permitted or special land uses otherwise allowed in the existing
district, in which the PUD is to be located may be approved within a PUD. If
the applicant desires to provide a use that is not a permitted or special land
use, then the applicant must prove that the proposed use would enhance the
development and the surrounding uses of the district and adjoining districts.
If the village develops a Master Plan, then the applicant would need to show
that the proposed use is consistent with the intent of the Master Plan.
§ 152.173 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   A pre-application conference will be held with the Village of Fowler
Planning Commission for the purpose of exchanging information, providing
guidance to the applicant and determining the eligibility of the request for
consideration as a PUD.
   (B)   A request for a pre-application conference shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator. As part of the pre-application conference, the applicant shall
submit copies of a conceptual plan, at a reasonable time period in advance of
the pre-application conference, which shows the property location, boundaries,
significant natural features, vehicular and pedestrian circulation, and land
use for the entire site.
   (C)   The Village Planning Commission shall advise the applicant of the
conformance of the PUD concept with the intent and objectives of a PUD in the
Village of Fowler, whether it qualifies under the minimum requirements of §
152.171. No formal action will be taken at a pre-application conference nor
will statements made at the pre-application conference be considered legally
binding commitments.
§ 152.174 PUD APPLICATION.
   (A)   Following the pre-application conference, applicants seeking approval
of a PUD District shall submit a complete application for review to the Zoning
Administrator who shall schedule a date and time for a public hearing and
Planning Commission review. Such application shall include the following:
      (1)   A completed application form, supplied by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Payment of a fee, as established by the Village Council.
      (3)   A narrative statement describing:
         (a)   The objectives of the PUD and how it relates to the intent of
the PUD District, as described in §
152.170.
         (b)   The relationship of the PUD to the Village of Fowler Master Plan
(if the village develops a Master Plan).
         (c)   Phases of development and approximate time frame for each phase.
         (d)   Proposed deed restrictions, covenants, or similar legal
instruments to be used within the PUD.
         (e)   Anticipated start and completion of construction.
         (f)   Location, type, and size of areas to be dedicated for common
open space.
   (B)   Sufficient copies of a preliminary development plan shall be provided
to the Zoning Administrator. If the PUD is to be developed in phases, the
preliminary development plan shall show all phases. The preliminary plan shall
contain the same information required in §§
152.190 through
152.195, under site plan review procedures, §
152.192(B)(1)(b).
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for PUD approval, the Zoning
Administrator shall cause notice to be given, in accordance with the PUD
rezoning requirements of the Zoning Act.
§ 152.175 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Following notice, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the proposed PUD, for the purpose of receiving public comment on the
application.
   (B)   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall review the
PUD request and preliminary development plan based on the conformance with the
standards of §
152.180; and shall make a recommendation to the Village Council to approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the PUD rezoning.
   (C)   In its recommendation to the Council, the Planning Commission shall
include the reasons for such recommendation, specifically citing appropriate
standards and sections of the chapter and identifying those specific
conditions, if any, on the preliminary plan that it considers necessary for the
PUD.
§ 152.176 VILLAGE COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   After receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
Village Council shall review the application package, preliminary development
plan, the record of the Planning Commission proceedings and the recommendation.
   (B)   The Council shall then make its findings based on the standards for
approval of §
152.179 as to approval, approval with conditions, or denial.
   (C)   An approval with conditions shall not be considered final until the
applicant submits a written acceptance of the conditions and all necessary
revisions to the preliminary development plan to the Village Council.
   (D)   Upon receipt by the Village Council of the applicant's written
acceptance of conditions and a revised preliminary development plan
incorporating all required changes and conditions, the rezoning shall become
effective.
§ 152.177 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPLICATION.
   (A)   Within 12 months of the Village Council's approval of the PUD
District, including the preliminary development plan, the applicant shall
submit a request to the Zoning Administrator for final PUD approval. If the
project includes phases, then the applicant must submit a request within 12
months of the Village Council's approval of the PUD District for final approval
of any phase.
   (B)   If the applicant fails to submit a request within 12 months as stated
above, then the preliminary site plan (not the PUD rezoning) shall be
determined to be invalid. If a preliminary plan includes phases, the applicant
must submit each subsequent phase within 24 months of the approval date of the
initial phase. If the applicant fails to submit the next phase within this time
period, then the preliminary site plan incorporating all phases not approved
for final site plan shall be determined to be invalid. Upon request to the
Village Council and in accordance with §
152.182(A)(1) and (A)(2), the time frames may be extended for a reasonable
period of time.
   (C)   A final development plan application shall consist of the following:
      (1)   A completed application form, supplied by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Payment of a fee, as established by the Village Council.
      (3)   A written response to the findings, review comments, and
conditions, if any, from the Village Council's review and approval of the
preliminary development plan and a narrative explanation of the changes made to
the plan in response to those items.
   (D)   A site plan containing all of the information required in this PUD
subchapter and as stated in §§
152.190 through
152.195, under final site plan review, §
152.192(B)(2)(a). If the plan consists of phases, then the above mentioned
information is only required for the specific phase(s) being presented for
final approval. Each subsequent phase shall be reviewed in the same manner.
§ 152.178 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the final development plan in
relation to its conformance with the preliminary development plan and any
conditions of the PUD rezoning. If it is determined that the final plan is not
in substantial conformance with the preliminary development plan, the review
process shall be conducted as a preliminary development plan review, in
accordance with the procedures of §
152.174 through
152.176.
   (B)   If the final development plan is consistent with the approved
preliminary development plan, the Planning Commission shall review the final
plan in accordance with the standards for approval stated in §
152.179.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall prepare a record of its findings and
shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the final development plan.
   (D)   Any zoning ordinance regulatory modification (i.e. setbacks) shall be
approved through a finding by the Planning Commission that the deviation shall
result in a higher quality of development than would be possible using
conventional zoning standards. Regulatory modifications are not subject to
variance approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals. No part of a PUD plan may be
appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals. This provision shall not hamper an
individual lot owner from seeking a variance (e.g. a residential garage
variance related to setbacks) following final approval of the PUD, provided
such variance does not involve alterations to open space areas as shown on the
approved PUD site plan.
   (E)   A table shall be provided on the final site plan which specifically
details all deviations from the established zoning area, height and setback
regulations, off-street parking regulations, general provisions, or subdivision
regulations which would otherwise be applicable to the uses and development
proposed in the absence of this PUD article and rezoning.
§ 152.179 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL (BOTH PRELIMINARY AND FINAL).
   Preliminary and final PUD's shall be approved only if they comply with each
of the following standards:
   (A)   The proposed PUD complies with all qualifying conditions of §
152.171.
   (B)   The uses to be conducted within the proposed PUD are substantially
consistent with the Village of Fowler Master Plan (if the village develops a
Master Plan).
   (C)   The proposed PUD is compatible with surrounding uses of land, the
natural environment, and the capacities of public services and facilities
affected by the development.
   (D)   The proposed uses within the PUD will not possess conditions or
effects that would be injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare of the
community.
   (E)   The proposed project is consistent with the spirit and intent of the
PUD District, as described in §
152.170 and represents an opportunity for improved or innovative development
for the community that could not be achieved through conventional zoning.
   (F)   The proposed PUD meets all the review standards of §
152.192(B)(2)(a).
§ 152.180 PUD AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of any building permits or commencement of
construction on any portion of the PUD, the applicant shall enter into an
agreement with the village in recordable form, setting forth the applicant's
obligations with respect to the PUD.
   (B)   The agreement shall describe all improvements to be constructed as
part of the PUD and shall incorporate, by reference, the final development plan
with all required revisions, other documents which comprise the PUD, and all
conditions attached to the approval by the Village Council.
   (C)   A phasing plan shall also be submitted describing the intended
schedule for start and completion of each phase and the improvements to be
undertaken in each phase.
   (D)   The agreement shall also establish the remedies of the village in the
event of default by the applicant in carrying out the PUD, and such remedies
shall be binding on all successors in interest to the applicant.
   (E)   All documents shall be executed and recorded in the office of the
Clinton County Register of Deeds.
§ 152.181 CHANGES TO AN APPROVED PUD.
   Changes to an approved final PUD shall be permitted only under the following
circumstances:
   (A)   The holder of an approved PUD final development plan shall notify the
Zoning Administrator of any desired change to the approved PUD.
   (B)   Minor changes may be approved by the Zoning Administrator upon
determining that the proposed revision(s) will not alter the basic design and
character of the PUD, nor any specified conditions imposed as part of the
original approval. Minor changes shall include the following:
      (1)   Reduction of the size of any building and/or sign.
      (2)   Movement of buildings and/or signs by no more than ten feet.
      (3)   Landscaping approved in the final development plan that is replaced
by similar landscaping to an equal or greater extent.
      (4)   Changes in floor plans, of up to 5% of the total floor area, which
do not alter the character of the use or increase the amount of required
parking.
      (5)   Internal rearrangement of a parking lot which does not affect the
number of parking spaces or alter access locations or design.
      (6)   Changes required or requested by the village, Clinton County, or
other state or federal regulatory agency in order to conform to other laws or
regulations.
   (C)   A proposed change not determined by the Zoning Administrator to be
minor shall be submitted as an amendment to the PUD and shall be processed in
the same manner as the original PUD application for the final development plan.
§ 152.182 TIME LIMIT FOR APPROVED PUD DISTRICT.
   Each approved final PUD must be under construction within 12 months after
the date of approval of the PUD final development plan, except as noted in this
section.
   (A)   The Village Council may grant one extension of up to an additional 12
month period from the expiration date of the PUD of phase of a PUD if the
applicant applies for such extension prior to the date of the expiration of the
PUD or PUD phase and provided that:
      (1)   The applicant presents reasonable evidence that said development
has encountered unforeseen difficulties beyond the control of the applicant;
and
      (2)   The PUD requirements and standards, including those of the Zoning
Ordinance and Master Plan, that are reasonably related to said development have
not changed.
   (B)   Should neither of the provisions of division (A) of this section be
fulfilled, or an extension has expired without construction underway, the PUD
preliminary plan approval(s) shall be null and void. This does not include any
phases that may have received final PUD approval.
   (C)   Should the PUD District become null and void, then the Village Council
has the right to rezone the property back to the prior zoning classification(s)
or to rezone it to any other zoning classification(s). If the property is not
rezoned, then the subject property remains zoned as a PUD, but the preliminary
or final PUD plans previously approved become null and void. In order to
utilize the property as a PUD, an applicant would have to submit plans for
preliminary and final PUD site plan approval as stated in this subchapter, but
would not require PUD rezoning action from the Council.
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 152.190 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to require site plan review approval
for certain buildings, structures, and uses that can be expected to have a
significant impact on natural resources, environmental quality, traffic
patterns and the character of future development in the vicinity. It is typical
for applicants to request that a planning commission accept a "napkin" type
site plan drawing for site plan approval. Unfortunately, it is difficult to use
informal methods as a proper way of providing for the health, safety and
welfare of village residents. The Village Council and Planning Commission
realize that suitable site plans require an applicant to spend some time and
money. It is the village's belief that the end result of suitable site plan
development will allow plans to be properly reviewed for health, safety and
welfare issues. In addition, many problems that may have been encountered in or
after the project development process are often averted. Averting problems
through a planning process can save the applicant and community time and money.
The requirements for site plans in this subchapter are intended to reduce
hazards to life and property due to fire, flooding, soil erosion, inadequate
surface water drainage, inadequate sewage disposal systems, pollution, dust,
fumes, noise, vibration, noxious odors, and other hazards; and to facilitate
the provision of a system of roads, streets, parking, municipal sewage
disposal, storm sewers, municipal water supply, public education, and other
public needs. These requirements are further intended to promote orderly
development and harmonious design in order to conserve the value of existing
development and property.
§ 152.191 USES SUBJECT TO SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   A building permit for any proposed use or building requiring a site
plan shall not be issued until a site plan has been reviewed and approved in
accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Final site plan approved by the Planning Commission shall be required
under the following conditions:
      (1)   All uses permitted by special land use.
      (2)   All uses required by this chapter to provide more than five new
off-street parking spaces or two or more loading spaces.
      (3)   Developments of more than one main building or use on a single lot
or parcel, submitted as a site condominium.
      (4)   For any use which, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator,
should be reviewed by the Planning Commission for site plan approval because of
the intensity of development proposed and potential effects on properties in
the general vicinity.
   (C)   The uses listed below do not require Planning Commission site plan
review and approval. The uses listed below require review and approval only by
the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Single and two family dwellings (unless submitted as a site
condominium under the provisions of division (B)(3), above).
      (2)   State licensed residential family care facilities.
      (3)   Day care, family homes.
      (4)   Accessory uses or structures.
      (5)   Home occupations (home occupation must be obtained).
§ 152.192 PROCEDURE FOR SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Application procedures. An application for site plan review shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least 30 days prior to the next
Planning Commission meeting. If the Zoning Administrator deems that the
application is complete per the requirements of division (A)(2) of this section
then the plans will be reviewed and submitted to the Planning Commission for
their consideration. The Zoning Administrator has the ability to reduce or
extend the 30 day period if it is deemed appropriate (e.g. the submitted site
plan is very basic and review can be performed in less than 30 days or the site
plan requires additional time due to the high level of detail and size of the
project).
      (1)   An application for either a preliminary or final site plan review
shall consist of the following:
         (a)   A completed application form, as provided by the village. The
application shall be signed by an owner of, or person having an interest in the
property to be developed, or an authorized representative.
         (b)   A suitable number of copies of the preliminary or final site
plan at a scale drawing of not less than one inch = 40 feet for parcels less
than three acres and one inch =100 feet for parcels three acres or more.
         (c)   Payment of a fee, in accordance with a fee schedule, as
determined periodically by a Village Council resolution.
         (d)   A legal description, including the permanent parcel number, of
the subject property.
         (e)   Other materials as may be required in this subchapter, by the
Zoning Administrator or by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   An application shall not be accepted until all required materials
are provided. Incomplete applications shall be returned to the applicant with
an indication of the items necessary to make up a complete application.
   (B)   Workshop meeting. Prior to performing site plan review procedures, an
applicant may request a workshop meeting of the Planning Commission. The
purpose of the workshop meeting is to allow the applicant to present a
conceptual plan, such as in the case of a PUD. In return, the Planning
Commission can inform the applicant of the general acceptability of the
proposed plans with little or no real costs to the applicant.
   (C)   Preliminary site plan review procedures.
      (1)   If desired by the applicant, a preliminary site plan may be
submitted to the Planning Commission for review prior to final site plan
review. The purpose of the preliminary site plan review is to allow further
discussion between the applicant and the Commission prior to incurring
extensive engineering and other costs which may be necessary for the review of
the final site plan.
      (2)   Preliminary site plans shall include the following, unless deemed
unnecessary by the Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission.
         (a)   Small scale sketch of an area within one-quarter mile of the
subject property showing the property location.
         (b)   Existing adjacent streets and proposed streets and existing curb
cuts within 100 feet of the property.
         (c)   All lot lines with dimensions.
         (d)   Parking lots (including required parking calculations) and
access points.
         (e)   Proposed buffer strips or screening.
         (f)   Significant natural features; and other natural characteristics,
including but not limited to open space, stands of trees, flood plains, hills,
and other significant natural features.
         (g)   Location of any signs not attached to the building.
         (h)   Existing and proposed buildings, including existing buildings or
structures within 100 feet of the boundaries of the property.
         (i)   Number of acres allocated to each proposed use and gross area in
building, structures, parking, public and/or private streets and drives, and
open space.
         (j)   Dwelling unit densities by type, if applicable.
         (k)   Proposed method of providing sewer and water service, as well as
other public and private utilities.
         (l)   Proposed method of providing storm drainage.
      (3)   The Commission shall review the preliminary site plan and make such
recommendations to the applicant that will cause the plan to be in conformance
with the review standards required by this subchapter and this chapter.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may request from the applicant any
additional graphics or written materials, prepared by a qualified person or
persons, to assist in determining the appropriateness of the site plan. Such
material may include, but need not be limited to, aerial photography,
photographs; traffic impacts; impact on significant natural features and
drainage; soil tests; and other pertinent information.
   (D)   Final site plan review procedures.
      (1)   A final site plan, including those provided in conjunction with a
special land use request, shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the site
plan, stating the reasons (use the standards provided in §
152.193) for such action in the Planning Commission minutes.
      (2)   Final site plans shall include the following information, unless
deemed unnecessary by the Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission:
         (a)   Small scale sketch of an area within one-quarter mile of the
subject property showing the property location.
         (b)   Date of preparation/revision.
         (c)   Name, address, and professional seal of the preparer.
         (d)   The topography of the site at a minimum of five foot intervals
and its relationship to adjoining land.
         (e)   Existing man-made features.
         (f)   Dimensions of setbacks, locations, heights and size of buildings
and structures, including the locations of existing buildings or structures
within 100 feet of the boundaries of the property.
         (g)   Street rights-of-ways, indicating proposed access routes,
internal circulation, relationship to existing rights-of-ways, and curb cuts
within 100 feet of the property.
         (h)   Proposed grading.
         (i)   Location, sizes, and type of drainage, sanitary sewers, water
services, storm sewers, and fire hydrants.
         (j)   Location, sizes, and type of fences, landscaping, buffer strips,
and screening.
         (k)   Location, sizes, and type of signs and on-site lighting,
including information regarding lighting levels at the edges of the site.
         (l)   Proposed parking areas and drives. Parking areas shall be
designated by lines showing individual spaces and shall conform with the
provisions of the subchapter on parking.
         (m)   Any public and private easements.
         (n)   Dimensions and number of proposed lots.
         (o)   Significant natural features, and other natural characteristics,
including but not limited to open space, stands of trees, flood plains, hills,
and other significant natural features.
         (p)   Building elevations.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may request from the applicant any
additional graphics or written materials, prepared by a qualified person or
persons, to assist in determining the appropriateness of the site plan. Such
material may include, but need not be limited to, aerial photography,
photographs; traffic impacts; impact on significant natural features and
drainage; soil tests; and other pertinent information.
   (E)   Staff, professionals, agency reviews. Prior to the Planning Commission
taking action on an applicant's final site plan, the Zoning Administrator and/
or Planning Commission may have village staff, support professionals or
governmental agencies provide reviews on the plans. Reviews may also be placed
as a condition of approval (e.g. wetland mitigation approval by a state
agency).
§ 152.193 STANDARDS FOR SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission in making its determination shall review the
final site plan and find the following prior to approval:
      (1)   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter and other
applicable village ordinances.
      (2)   Compliance with any applicable comments received from reviewing
village officials, support professionals or public agencies.
      (3)   Compliance with other applicable state and federal statutes and
standards.
   (B)   General standards. In reviewing an application for final site plan
review, the following standards shall be met:
      (1)   The site shall be developed so as not to hinder the normal and
orderly development or improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in this chapter.
      (2)   All buildings or groups of buildings shall be arranged as to permit
emergency vehicle access by some practical means to all sites. Safe,
convenient, uncongested, and well-defined vehicular and pedestrian circulation
shall be provided for ingress/egress points and within the site. Drives,
streets and other circulation routes shall be designed to promote safe and
efficient traffic operations within the site and at ingress/egress points.
      (3)   Every structure or dwelling unit shall have access to a private
street, public street, walkway or other areas dedicated to common use. The
arrangement of public or private vehicular and pedestrian connections to
existing or planned streets in the area shall be planned to provide a safe and
efficient circulation system for traffic within and around the Village of
Fowler.
      (4)   Appropriate measures shall be taken to ensure that removal of
surface waters will not adversely affect neighboring properties, the village,
or the county's storm drainage system.
      (5)   Provisions shall be made for the construction of storm sewer
facilities including grading, gutters, piping and treatment of turf to handle
storm water, prevent erosion and the formation of dust. Surface water on all
paved areas shall be collected at intervals so that it will not obstruct the
flow of vehicle or pedestrian traffic or create standing water in paved areas.
      (6)   Secondary containment for above ground areas where hazardous
substances are stored or used shall be provided. Secondary containment shall be
sufficient to store the substance for the maximum anticipated period of time
necessary for the recovery of any released substances.
      (7)   General purpose floor drains shall only be allowed if they are
approved by the Village's Department of Public Works for a connection to a
public sewer system, an on-site closed holding tank (not a septic system), or
regulated through a State of Michigan groundwater discharge permit.
      (8)   State and federal agency requirements for storage, spill
prevention, record keeping, emergency response, transport and disposal of
hazardous substances shall be met. No discharges to groundwater, including
direct and indirect discharges, shall be allowed without permits and approvals.
      (9)   Removal or alteration of significant natural features shall be
restricted to those areas which are reasonably necessary to develop the site in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter. The Planning Commission may
require that landscaping, buffers, and/or greenbelts be preserved and/or
provided to ensure that proposed uses will be adequately buffered from one
another and from surrounding public and private property.
§ 152.194 APPROVED PLANS AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Upon approval of the final site plan, the Planning Commission Chair,
or the Chair's designee, shall sign three copies. One signed copy shall be made
a part of the village's files; one copy of the final site plan shall be
forwarded to the Building Official for issuance of a building permit; and one
copy shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Each development shall be under construction within one year after the
date of approval of the final site plan, except as noted in this section.
      (1)   An applicant may request from the Planning Commission one six month
extension of the final site plan approval. Any request for extension must be
applied for in writing prior to the date of the expiration of the final site
plan. Such request may only be granted provided that:
         (a)   The applicant presents reasonable evidence that development has
encountered unforeseen difficulties beyond the control of the applicant; and
         (b)   The site plan requirements and standards, including those of the
Zoning Ordinance, that are reasonably related to said development have not
changed.
      (2)   Should neither of the provisions of division (B) of this section be
fulfilled, or a six month extension has expired without construction having
been started and proceeding meaningfully, the final site plan approval shall be
null and void.
   (C)   Amendments to an approved final site plan may occur only under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The holder of a valid final site plan approval shall notify the
Zoning Administrator of any proposed amendment to such approved site plan.
      (2)   Minor changes may be approved by the Zoning Administrator upon
certification in writing to the Planning Commission that the proposed revision
does not alter the basic design nor any specified conditions of the plan as
agreed upon by the Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator shall consider
the following to be a minor change:
         (a)   Reduction of the size of any building and/or sign.
         (b)   Movement of buildings and/or signs by no more than ten feet,
provided that such movement does not cause a violation of this chapter.
         (c)   Landscaping approved in the site plan that is replaced by
similar landscaping to an equal or greater extent.
         (d)   Changes in floor plans which do not alter the character of the
use or increase the amount of required parking.
         (e)   Internal rearrangement of a parking lot which does not affect
the number of parking spaces or alter access locations or design.
         (f)   Changes required or requested by the village as it relates to
their roads within the village or a Clinton County department for safety
reasons.
      (3)   Should the Zoning Administrator determine that the requested
modification to the approved final site plan is not minor, a new site plan
shall be submitted and reviewed as required by this subchapter.
   (D)   Certification of compliance. At final inspection or at other
appropriate times the Zoning Administrator shall certify whether all conditions
and other requirements of the Planning Commission in its approval of the final
site plan have been fulfilled.
§ 152.195 APPEAL OF DECISIONS.
   A person aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Commission with respect
to an action regarding the final site plan may have that decision reviewed by
the Board of Zoning Appeals; provided the petition for appeal is filed with the
Village Clerk within 20 days of the Planning Commission decision.
SPECIAL LAND USES
§ 152.210 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter is intended to respond to the functions and
characteristics of an increasing number of new kinds of land uses, combined
with conclusive experience regarding some of the older, familiar kinds of uses,
which call for a more flexible and equitable procedure for properly
accommodating these activities in the community. Rather than assigning all uses
to special, individual, and limited zoning districts, it is important to
provide control and reasonable flexibility in requirements for certain kinds of
uses that will allow practical latitude for the applicant, but will maintain
adequate provision for the security of the health, safety, convenience, and
general welfare of the community's inhabitants.
   (B)   In order to accomplish this dual objective, provisions are made in
this chapter for a more detailed consideration of each specified activity as it
may relate to proposed conditions of location and design, size, operation,
intensity of use, generation of traffic and traffic movements, concentration of
population, processes and equipment employed, amount and kind of public
facilities and services required, together with many other possible factors.
   (C)   Land and structure uses possessing these particularly unique
characteristics are designated as special land uses and may be authorized by
the issuance of a special land use permit, which contains conditions and
safeguards necessary for the protection of the public welfare.
   (D)   The following sections, together with previous references in other
subchapters of this chapter, designate those uses requiring a special land use
permit. With any noted exceptions, the procedures for obtaining such a special
land use permit shall apply to all special land uses indicated.
§ 152.211 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application procedures.
      (1)   An application for a special land use deemed to be complete,
according to the requirements of division (A)(2) of this section shall be
submitted within a reasonable period of time, determined by the Zoning
Administrator, prior to the next scheduled Planning Commission meeting through
the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, or appointee, will review
the application materials to ensure that the requirements of this section are
met, then transmit it to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   An application for a special land use shall not be considered
complete until all of the following materials have been submitted and deemed
complete by the Zoning Administrator or appointee:
         (a)   A completed application form, as provided by the village. The
application shall be signed by an owner of, or person having an interest in,
the property to be developed, or an authorized representative.
         (b)   Suitable number of copies of the preliminary or final site plan
meeting the requirements of §
152.192.
         (c)   Payment of a fee, in accordance with a fee schedule, as
determined by Village Council resolution.
         (d)   A legal description, including the permanent parcel number, of
the subject property.
         (e)   A statement with supporting evidence regarding the required
findings as specified in §
152.213.
         (f)   Other materials as may be required in this subchapter, the
Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or Village Council.
      (3)   An application shall not be accepted until all required materials
are provided. Incomplete applications shall be returned to the applicant with
an indication of the items necessary to make up a complete application.
§ 152.212 REVIEW AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Public hearing.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall review the application at its next
regular meeting following filing and shall set a date for public hearing within
45 days thereafter.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be published one notice of public
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the village not less than
15 days before the date the application will be considered for approval, and
shall provide notice by regular mail or personal delivery to all persons to
whom property is assessed within 300 feet of the subject property and to the
occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the property, regardless of
whether the property or occupant is located within the village. If the name of
an occupant is not known, the term "occupant" may be used in making
notification.
      (3)   Such notice shall describe the nature of the request, identify the
property that is the subject of the request, and shall include a listing of all
street addresses within the property, if such addresses exist.
      (4)   The notice shall also state when and where the request will be
considered, and indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, and after time for deliberation, the
Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the Village Council for
approval, approval with conditions, or denial. The Commission shall state its
reasons for such recommendation in its minutes for submission to the Council.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a report and summary of hearing comments from the
Planning Commission, the Village Council may hold an additional public hearing,
if it considers a further hearing necessary, using the same hearing
requirements as the hearing held before the Planning Commission. The Village
Council, upon approval of an application for special land use permit, shall
authorize the Zoning Administrator to issue the permit subject to the
conditions specified by the Village Council.
[Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.213 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR MAKING DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission and Village Council shall review the
particular facts, circumstances and evidence presented. The Planning Commission
and Village Council decisions shall be based on the general standards of this
section and the applicable specific requirements contained in §
152.215.
   (B)   It shall be incumbent upon the representatives of the applicant for a
special land use permit to provide documentation and evidence in support of the
proposal. It shall also be the obligation of the applicant to furnish evidence,
or proof of compliance with the specific and general criteria contained in this
chapter.
   (C)   General standards. The general standards are basic to all special land
uses; and the specific requirements of §
152.215 is in addition to and shall be required in all applicable situations.
      (1)   The proposed use shall be designed, constructed, operated, and
maintained so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the
existing character of the general vicinity.
      (2)   The proposed use is served by necessary public facilities which are
adequate or can be made adequate to serve the proposed use. Specifically,
existing streets, storm water drainage, water supply, fire protection, police,
emergency medical care, sanitary sewer disposal, solid waste disposal, and
public recreation shall be adequate to serve the proposed project.
      (3)   The proposed use shall not be hazardous or disturbing to
neighboring uses or cause any conflict to the existing use and quiet enjoyment
of surrounding property.
      (4)   The proposed use shall not involve activities, processes, materials
and equipment and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any
person, property, or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of
traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors.
      (5)   The proposed use shall be consistent with the intent and purpose of
this chapter.
§ 152.214 CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   (A)   Before granting a special land use permit, the Village Council may
impose reasonable conditions or limitations upon the establishment, location,
construction, maintenance, or operation of the use authorized by the special
land use permit as may be necessary for the protection of the public interest.
   (B)   Such conditions may include those necessary to insure that public
services and facilities affected will be capable of accommodating increased
demand and facility loads; to protect the natural environment and conserve
natural resources and energy; to insure compatibility with adjacent uses of
land; to promote the use of land in a socially and economically desirable
manner and be consistent with the general standards as established in this
chapter and are necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the regulations
contained in this chapter.
   (C)   The conditions imposed shall be recorded in the minutes of the Village
Council and shall remain unchanged except upon mutual consent of the Village
Council and the owner of the property affected. The Village Council shall
record in its minutes any changes in conditions of approval of special land use
permits.
   (D)   Conditions and requirements stated as part of special land use permit
authorization, including all plans, specifications and statements submitted
with the application for a special land use permit, shall be a continuing
obligation of its holder. The Zoning Administrator shall make periodic
investigations of uses authorized by special land use permits to determine
compliance with all requirements.
   (E)   Certification of compliance. At final inspection or at other
appropriate times the Zoning Administrator shall certify whether all conditions
and other requirements of the Village Council in its approval of the special
land use have been fulfilled.
   (F)   An application for a special land use permit which had been denied
wholly or in part by the Village Council shall not be resubmitted until the
expiration of one year or more from the date of denial, except in the case of
newly discovered evidence or changed conditions found to be sufficient to
justify reconsideration by the Village Council.
§ 152.215 SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements set forth in this section relate to particular special land
uses and specific requirements which must be met in addition to the standards
of §
152.213.
   (A)   Above ground storage of flammable liquids.
      (1)   The minimum lot size shall be five acres.
      (2)   The lot shall be located so that at least one side abuts a major
street (as defined by Act 51) and all access shall be from such street.
      (3)   The main and accessory buildings and any storage facilities shall
not be located nearer than 300 feet to any adjacent residential district or
use.
      (4)   Proper containment facilities shall be constructed to ensure that
accidental spills or ruptures will not cause the contamination of any
groundwater source.
      (5)   No advertising or other signs, other than required regulatory or
warning signs, shall be permitted on any tank or other storage facility.
   (B)   Adult entertainment activities.
      (1)   Intent. It is the intent of this division to provide regulations
controlling those uses which are recognized as having serious, objectionable,
operational characteristics inducing a deleterious impact on adjacent uses and
areas. Special regulations of these uses are necessary to insure that the
anticipated adverse impacts will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading
of the surrounding neighborhood. Uses subject to these controls include: adult
bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult motels, nightclubs, and
massage parlors, as herein defined.
      (2)   Definitions. For purposes of this division, the adult entertainment
activities listed above shall have the meanings as noted in the definitions
subchapter of this chapter.
      (3)   General requirements and restrictions. Establishments where uses
subject to the control of this division are located shall not be expanded in
any manner without first applying for and receiving the approval of the Village
Council as provided herein. The Village Council shall only issue a special land
use permit for adult entertainment activities which comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Adult entertainment activities shall not be located in any
zoning district except the industrial district.
         (b)   Adult entertainment activities shall not be allowed within 500
feet of another existing adult entertainment use, or within 500 feet of any
residential zoning district, or within 500 feet of an existing church, school,
park or playground.
         (c)   All persons massaging any client or customer must be certified
as a massage therapist by the American Massage Therapy Association or be a
graduate of a school of massage therapy that is certified by the State of
Michigan, or have such other similar qualifications which must be submitted to
and approved by the Planning Commission.
            1.   All massage clinics are subject to inspection from time to
time by the Building Inspector and shall be required to file reports as may be
required by the village, at least annually, as to the names and qualifications
of each person who administers massages under the authority or supervision of
the massage establishment.
            2.   This definition shall not be construed to include a hospital,
nursing home, medical clinic, or the office of a physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath, or physical therapist duly licensed by the State of
Michigan, nor barber shops or beauty salons in which massages are administered
only to the scalp, the face, the neck or the shoulder.
            3.   This definition shall not be construed to include a non-profit
organization operating a community center, swimming pool, tennis court, or
other educational, cultural, recreational, and athletic facilities for the
welfare of the residents of the area.
         (d)   Any sign or signs proposed for the adult use business must
comply with the requirements of this chapter, and shall not include
photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any type,
nor include any animated illumination or flashing illumination.
         (e)   No person younger than 18 years of age shall enter into or be
permitted to remain on the premises of a sexually oriented business at any time
the sexually oriented business is open for business.
         (f)   A sexually oriented business that offers live entertainment
shall provide:
            1.   A dressing area for performers that has direct access to and
from the dressing area and the performance area or stage so that the performer
may enter the performance area or stage without entering the area from which
the patrons view the performance. The dressing area must be separate from, and
not freely accessible to, areas of the business to which patrons or customers
have ready access, and must contain hot and cold running water, toilet
facilities, and must also be handicap accessible to the extent required by the
American with Disabilities Act, as amended.
            2.   A performance area or stage that is at least 12 inches above
the area from which patrons view the performance.
            3.   Signs must be posted on both that notify patrons of the
sexually oriented business that contact between the patrons and any employee,
owner, independent contractor, or performer who displays specified anatomical
areas or who performs specified sexual activities is prohibited. At a minimum,
two such signs must be displayed on the premises of the sexually oriented
business. The required sign must be situated in the area of the sexually
oriented business in which patrons are admitted and in which patrons are served
beverages, if any. The signs must be at least 24 inches by 36 inches in size,
and contain the following notice: "NOTICE: Physical contact between patrons and
performers who display specified anatomical areas or who perform specified
sexual activities is prohibited by Ordinance of the Village of Fowler.
Violators will be prosecuted." This notice must be printed in bold face types
that is at least 24 point in lettering size.
         (g)   An employee, owner, independent contractor, or performer of any
kind who displays specified anatomical areas or performs specified sexual
activities shall not have any physical contact with a patron of the sexually
oriented business in regards to, or the receipt of, tips or gratuities.
Physical contact with patron includes, but is not limited to, any contact
between the employee, owner, independent contractor, or performer of the
sexually oriented business and a patron in which the patron touches any part of
the employee's, owner's, independent contractor's, or performer's body, or if
the patron causes something in his or her direct control to touch any part of
the employee's, owner's, independent contractor's, or performer's body.
         (h)   A sexually oriented business shall meet all local, state, and
federal building code requirements. A sexually oriented business shall only be
located in the village as provided for by the Village Zoning Ordinance.
         (i)   An operator of a sexually oriented business shall permit the
Village Zoning Administrator and his/her agents, including any law enforcement
official or building inspector, to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented
business for the purpose of insuring compliance with the requirements of this
chapter, of any other village ordinances, or of any other law or regulation.
         (j)   No employee, owner, independent contractor, or performer shall
engage in any act of public nudity, unless that person is in or on the
performance area or stage area.
         (k)   No patrons shall be permitted to engage in any act of public
nudity.
         (l)   No product for sale or gift, nor any picture or other
representation of any product for sale or gift, shall be displayed so that it
is visible by a person of normal visual acuity from the nearest adjoining
roadway or adjoining property.
         (m)   No adult use shall be open for business prior to 10:00 a.m., nor
after 11:00 p.m. However, employees or other agents, or contractors of the
business are permitted to be on the premises at other hours for legitimate
business purposes such as maintenance, clean-up, preparation, record keeping,
and similar purposes.
   (C)   Automobile wash establishment, either self-serve or automatic.
      (1)   Sufficient stacking capacity for the drive-through portion of the
operation shall be provided to ensure that traffic does not extend into the
public right-of-way. Such vehicle stacking space shall be equivalent to five
times the wash capacity. Wash capacity shall be determined by dividing the
length of the mechanical wash/dry machinery by 25 feet. No less than 12
stacking spaces shall be provided. For self-service establishments, each stall
shall have at least two stacking spaces at the entrance to the wash. At least
two stacking spaces shall be provided at the exits of both self-serve and
automatic car washes.
      (2)   Vacuuming activities, if outdoors, shall be at least 300 feet from
any residential use or district property line. Wash bays for self-service
establishments shall be located at least 150 feet from any residential use or
district property line.
      (3)   Should self-service wash bays be located with openings facing an
adjacent street, they shall be screened and continuously maintained in good
condition.
      (4)   Only one access driveway shall be permitted on any single street.
Access driveways shall be located no less than 100 feet from street
intersections rights-of-way lines or 75 feet from any driveway throat edge.
      (5)   Where adjoining residentially zoned or used property, a solid wall
or fence, six feet in height shall be erected along any common lot line. Such
fence or wall shall be continuously maintained in good condition.
   (D)   Banks, credit unions and savings and loans with drive-through
facilities.
      (1)   Sufficient stacking capacity for the drive-through portion of the
operation shall be provided to ensure that traffic does not extend into the
public right-of-way. A minimum of three stacking spaces for each outdoor
service station shall be provided. Stacking spaces shall be located so as not
to interfere with vehicular circulation and egress from the property by
vehicles not using the drive-through portion of the facility.
      (2)   Parking areas shall have side and rear yard setbacks of at least
ten feet.
      (3)   Public access to the site shall be located at least 50 feet from
any intersection as measured from the nearest right-of-way line to the nearest
edge of said access.
      (4)   Where parking and maneuvering areas directly abut a residential
district or use they shall be fenced and screened from view by a decorative
fence or wall, or a landscaped equivalent.
      (5)   Outdoor speakers for the drive through facility shall be located in
a way that minimizes sound transmission toward neighboring property and uses.
   (E)   Bed and breakfasts.
      (1)   The property and residence exterior shall be maintained in a manner
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   The facility shall be in compliance with all applicable state
licensing requirements.
      (3)   Such uses shall only be established in a detached single family
dwelling.
      (4)   Parking shall be located to minimize negative effects on adjacent
properties.
      (5)   The total number of guest rooms in the establishment shall not
exceed five.
      (6)   Exterior refuse storage facilities beyond what might normally be
expected for a detached single family dwelling shall be screened from view on
all sides by a six foot solid, decorative fence or wall.
      (7)   The establishment shall contain the principal residence of the
operator.
      (8)   Accessory retail or service uses to a bed-and-breakfast
establishment shall be prohibited, including but not limited to gift shops,
antique shops, restaurants, bakeries, and other similar uses.
      (9)   Meals prepared for commercial use may only be served to overnight
guests.
   (F)   Building material suppliers.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be one acre.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 200 feet.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may require a six foot fence or wall to be
constructed along the rear and/or sides of the lot to keep trash, paper, and
other debris from blowing off the premises.
      (4)   The lot area used for parking, display or storage shall be a paved
surface and shall be properly graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water.
   (G)   Cemeteries.
      (1)   A cemetery is a privately or publicly owned property which provides
perpetual care of grounds used solely for the interment of human beings or
customary household pets.
      (2)   Cemeteries shall be established in compliance with Public Act 368
of 1978, as amended, M.C.L.A. 333.1101 et seq., Public Act 88 of 1875, as
amended M.C.L.A. 128.111 et seq., and other applicable state laws.
      (3)   Minimum property size shall be ten acres.
   (H)   Churches, synagogues and other similar places of worship.
      (1)   Minimum lot width shall be 150 feet.
      (2)   For every foot of height by which the building, exclusive of spire,
exceeds the maximum height limitation for the district, an additional (to the
minimum setback) foot of front, side and rear yard setback shall be provided.
      (3)   Lighting shall be prevented from spilling onto adjacent residential
uses.
   (I)   Commercial storage warehouses.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be two acres.
      (2)   An office for security personnel or operator may be permitted on
the premises.
      (3)   Parking and circulation:
         (a)   One parking space shall be provided for each ten storage
cubicles, and shall be equally distributed throughout the site. One additional
parking space per 20 storage cubicles, up to a maximum of ten spaces, shall be
located adjacent to the rental office for the use of customers.
         (b)   Two parking spaces shall also be required for the security or
operator's office located on the premises.
         (c)   All driveways, parking, loading, storage, and vehicular
circulation areas shall be paved.
   (J)   Composting centers.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit an impact assessment describing the
expected odors, aesthetics, environmental impacts, vehicular and truck traffic
impacts associated with the use, and any mitigation measures to be employed.
      (2)   The site plan shall clearly illustrate the layout of the composting
operation, including: buildings, staging area, parking, on-site truck
maneuvering (truck turning radii shall be illustrated), curing area, landscape
buffers, sales area and fencing.
      (3)   Commercial composting operations shall be at least 500 feet from
any residential district.
      (4)   The applicant shall describe procedures for managing stormwater
runoff and preventing pollution of surface water bodies or groundwater.
      (5)   The applicant shall use acceptable methods for control of odors.
      (6)   A landscaped major buffer, as described in §§
152.225 through
152.230 shall be provided on all sides adjacent to a residential district. A
landscaped minor buffer zone shall be provided on all other sides unless
specifically exempted by the Planning Commission in consideration of adjacent
uses and topographic features.
      (7)   Access shall be provided solely on Class A truck routes.
      (8)   Any materials stored or used on the premises that are not being
composted shall meet the standards of the outdoor storage yards in division (U)
of this section.
   (K)   Day care, group homes.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided for employees of the facility.
Client pickup and drop off areas shall be located in a manner that vehicles do
not stop in the travel lane of the adjacent roadway and vehicles are not
required to back into the roadway.
      (2)   The property and residence exterior shall be maintained in a manner
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
      (3)   There shall be provided, equipped and maintained, on the premises,
a minimum of 150 square feet of usable outdoor recreation area for each client
making up the licensed capacity of the facility.
      (4)   The outdoor recreation area shall be fenced and screened from any
abutting residential district or use by a decorative fence or wall, or a
landscaped equivalent.
      (5)   The applicant shall provide evidence of the ability to comply with
all applicable state licensing requirements.
   (L)   Funeral home or mortuary.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be one acre with a minimum width of 150
feet.
      (2)   A well designed and landscaped off-street vehicle assembly area
shall be provided to be used in support of funeral procession activity. This
area shall not obstruct internal circulation within the required off-street
parking area or its related maneuvering space.
      (3)   A caretaker's residence may be provided within the principal
building.
   (M)   Government and community service facilities, emergency services,
postal services, museums and libraries.
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be one acre. The lot shall provide direct
vehicular access to a public street.
      (2)   Ingress and egress shall be at least 50 feet from an intersection.
      (3)   Parking areas shall have a minimum front yard setback of 20 feet
and side and rear yard setbacks of at least ten feet.
      (4)   All principal buildings or outdoor activity areas shall be set back
at least 50 feet from any property line.
   (N)   Hospitals.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be at least two acres and have direct
access to a collector street as defined by this chapter.
      (2)   The emergency entrance, delivery area, and the refuse disposal
container area shall be obscured from the general view.
      (3)   No building shall be any closer than 75 feet to any property line
or street right-of-way.
      (4)   Safe pedestrian movement shall be provided within the site and onto
adjacent street sidewalks, including street crossings.
   (O)   Hotels and motels.
      (1)   Minimum floor area of each guest unit shall contain not less than
250 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum lot area shall be 25,000 square feet with a minimum
width of 100 feet, provided that there shall be at least 500 square feet of lot
for each lodging unit.
      (3)   The maximum lot coverage of all buildings, including accessory
buildings shall not exceed more than 35% of the lot.
      (4)   All parking areas shall have direct access to a major street as
defined by Public Act 51.
   (P)   Metal and wood stripping establishment.
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be two acres.
      (2)   The lot location shall be such that at least one property line
abuts a major street. The ingress and egress for all vehicles shall be directly
from said thoroughfare.
      (3)   The main and accessory buildings shall be set back at least 75 feet
from all property lines.
      (4)   Truck parking and staging areas shall be fenced and screened from
the view of any abutting residential district or use by a decorative fence or
wall, or a landscaped equivalent.
   (Q)   New and used vehicle or farm implement sales including incidental
servicing and minor repair.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be one acre.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 200 feet.
      (3)   The lot area used for parking shall be paved and the display or
storage areas shall be provided with a permanent, durable, and dust controlled
surface, and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all surface water.
      (4)   Ingress and egress shall be provided as far as practicable from two
intersecting streets and shall be at least 100 feet from an intersection.
   (R)   Nurseries and greenhouses.
      (1)   The storage or materials display areas shall meet all the yard
setback requirements applicable to any building in the district.
      (2)   All loading activities and parking areas shall be provided on the
same premises (off-street).
      (3)   The storage of any soil, fertilizer, or similar loosely packaged
materials shall be sufficiently contained to prevent any adverse effect upon
adjacent properties.
      (4)   The lot area used for parking shall be hard-surfaced and the
display or storage areas shall be provided with a permanent, durable, and
dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water.
   (S)   Open air businesses.
      (1)   The lot area used for parking, display, or storage shall be paved,
graded and drained so as to dispose of all surface water.
      (2)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 100 feet from street
intersections rights-of-way lines or 75 feet from any driveway throat edge.
      (3)   Lighting for parking and outdoor storage areas shall be shielded to
prevent light from spilling onto any residential district or use property line.
      (4)   Any display materials or equipment stored or displayed outside of
an enclosed building shall not extend into any required yard or occupy any
required parking or maneuvering areas for vehicles.
   (T)   Outdoor storage yards.
      (1)   All outdoor storage shall only be located in the rear or side yard.
If located in the side yard, landscape screening at least six feet tall shall
be provided to obscure vision from the front yard. All outdoor storage areas
shall be fenced with a six foot high chain link fence, screen wall, or
equivalent per the requirements of §
152.226(F)(3) through (F)(8).
      (2)   All outdoor storage yards shall be provided with a hard surface.
Asphalt or concrete is recommended, however, where practical other suitable
materials, such as compacted limestone may be approved conditionally by the
Planning Commission.
      (3)   Screening of outdoor storage yards shall be provided along all
property lines in accordance with the requirements of the Landscape subchapter.
      (4)   Outdoor storage yards shall only be permitted in conjunction with a
principal use on the property.
      (5)   All flammable or explosive liquids, solids, or gases shall be
stored in a manner as required by law.
      (6)   All outdoor storage shall be maintained in a safe manner.
   (U)   Private clubs and lodges.
      (1)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet to any property line or
street right-of-way.   
      (2)   No commercial, for profit enterprise shall be permitted to operate
on the premises, except that vending machines shall be permitted.
   (V)   Residential dwelling units, in the same building with commercial uses.
      (1)   No commercial uses, including storage, shall be located on the same
floor of the building as the dwelling unit.
      (2)   Two on-site parking spaces shall be required for each dwelling
unit.
      (3)   Principal access to dwelling units shall be from outside of the
building.
      (4)   No dwelling unit shall be located on the ground floor of the
building.
   (W)   Restaurants with drive through service.
      (1)   Sufficient stacking capacity for the drive-through portion of the
operation shall be provided to ensure that traffic does not extend into the
public right-of-way. A minimum of ten stacking spaces for the service ordering
station shall be provided. Stacking spaces shall be located so as not to
interfere with vehicular circulation and egress from the property by vehicles
not using the drive-through portion of the facility.
      (2)   In addition to parking space requirements, at least three parking
spaces shall be provided, in close proximity to the exit of the drive-through
portion of the operation, to allow for customers waiting for delivery of
orders.
      (3)   Parking areas shall have side and rear yard setbacks of at least
ten feet.
      (4)   Public access to the site shall be located at least 50 feet from
any intersection as measured from the nearest right-of-way line to the nearest
edge of said access.
      (5)   The parking and maneuvering areas of the site shall be fenced and
screened from the view of any abutting residential district or use by a
decorative fence or wall, or a landscaped equivalent.
      (6)   Outdoor speakers for the drive through facility shall be located in
a way that minimizes sound transmission toward neighboring property and uses.
   (X)   Shopping centers or shopping malls.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for a shopping center or mall shall be three
acres.
      (2)   The site shall have a minimum of 300 feet of frontage on a
collector street, as defined in this chapter.
      (3)   No building shall be located closer than 100 feet to a street
right-of-way line.
      (4)   Shopping centers or malls shall be served by public sanitary sewer
and water supply.
      (5)   Motor vehicle entrance and exit shall only be from a collector
street as defined in this chapter.
      (6)   Pedestrian movement between buildings shall be designed without the
need to cross drives or parking areas.
      (7)   No building within a shopping center or mall shall have a separate
access to a street.
      (8)   Where possible, existing trees and other significant vegetation on
the site shall be preserved. Greenbelts, buffer strips, and berms may be
required.
   (Y)   State licensed residential care group facilities.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be at least one acre.
      (2)   The proposed site shall have direct access to a major street as
defined by Act 51.
      (3)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet to any property line or
street right-of-way.
      (4)   Off-street parking shall be provided for family members and
employees of the facility. Client pickup and drop off areas shall be located in
a manner that vehicles do not stop in the travel lane of the adjacent roadway
and vehicles are not required to back into the roadway.
      (5)   The property and residence exterior shall be maintained in a manner
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
      (6)   The facility shall be in compliance with all applicable state
licensing requirements.
   (Z)   Truck terminals.
      (1)   Access driveways shall be located no less than 100 feet from the
centerline of the intersection of any street or any other driveway.
      (2)   Trucks and trailers parked overnight shall be setback from the
front lot line a minimum of 80 feet.
      (3)   The principal buildings and structures shall not be located within
150 feet from any residential district or use.
      (4)   The lot area used for parking, display, or storage shall be
provided with a permanent, durable, and dustless surface, and shall be graded
and drained so as to dispose of all surface water.
      (5)   Any vehicle or equipment stored outside of an enclosed building
shall not extend into any required yard. Other than trailers, no other
equipment may be stored or displayed in the front yard. (See definitions for
difference between required front yard and the front yard).
   (AA)   Vehicle repair and service station.
      (1)   Parking or storage of inoperative vehicles shall be completely
surrounded by an opaque fence of not less than six feet in height.
      (2)   A minimum lot frontage of 100 feet shall be required.
      (3)   In addition to the minimum lot area required by the zoning district
in which the use is located, the minimum lot area shall be increased 500 square
feet for each fuel pump unit in excess of four and 1,000 square feet for each
service bay in excess of two, and 300 square feet for each parking space
intended for the storage of inoperative vehicles.
      (4)   All buildings and accessory structures including gasoline pumps
shall be setback at least 50 feet from any lot line or street right-of-way.
      (5)   All equipment including hydraulic hoist, pits, and oil lubrication,
greasing and automobile washing, repairing equipment and body repair shall be
entirely enclosed within a building. There shall be no outdoor storage of
merchandise such as tires, lubricants and other accessory equipment.
      (6)   All activities, except those required to be performed at the fuel
pump, shall be carried on within a building.
      (7)   There shall be no above ground tanks for the storage of gasoline,
liquefied petroleum gas, oil or other flammable liquids or gases. In ground
storage of flammable liquids shall be in non-metallic containers, pressure
tested under the supervision of the Zoning Administrator or appointed designee
and annually approved thereafter by the applicable state agency.
   (BB)   Veterinary hospital, clinic or indoor kennel.
      (1)   Outdoor areas in which animals are kept, such as runs, pens, and/or
exercise areas shall not be located nearer than 100 feet to any residential
district and shall not be located within any required yard.
      (2)   Outdoor runs, pens, and/or exercise areas that face residential
districts shall be screened with a six foot high fence. Suitable shade,
including some natural vegetation shall be provided around these outdoor areas.
      (3)   All indoor and outdoor hospital and clinic areas, runs, pens, and/
or exercise areas shall be daily maintained, including the removal of animal
waste.
LANDSCAPING AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.225 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to require buffer zones, landscaping,
and screening to reduce the negative impacts between incompatible land uses and
to provide landscaping within parking areas. It is further intended to preserve
and enhance the aesthetic qualities, character, privacy, and environment of the
village.
§ 152.226 REQUIRED BUFFER ZONES.
   (A)   A buffer shall be required on any parcel proposed for development
which borders a different zone district, as indicated in division (E) of this
section. Where the adjacent zone district is more intensive, the required
buffer shall be installed only on the property which is in the more intensive
district.
   (B)   The specified buffer shall be required on the subject parcel even if
the adjacent parcel is unimproved land. A performance bond may be submitted in
lieu of the required buffer where adjacent land is unimproved. The buffer shall
be installed when the adjacent property begins development and completed prior
to any occupancy of the adjoining use.
   (C)   When any developed parcel existing as of the date of this chapter, or
as amended, is changed to a less restrictive zone district, any required buffer
shall be installed in compliance with this section within six months of the
effective date of the rezoning. This provision shall not apply to rezonings
initiated by the village.
   (D)   If two zoning districts requiring a buffer zone are separated by a
street, the design of the required buffer zone shall be reduced by one level;
for example, a required major buffer shall be reduced to a moderate buffer.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the minimum buffer installed shall be a minor
buffer, unless a buffer would otherwise not be required by division (E), below.
   (E)   The following chart defines the required buffers between adjacent zone
districts:
BUFFER ZONE ADJACENT DISTRICT
            R-1 R-2 C-1 C-2 I
BUFFER ZONE ADJACENT DISTRICT
            R-1      R-2   C-1 C-2      I
R-1         NR             Moderate     Major
R-2         NR             Minor        Major
C-1         Moderate Minor NR  Minor    Major
C-2         Moderate Minor     NR       Moderate
I           Major              Moderate NR
NR = None Required
 
   (F)   Buffer zone development standards.
      (1)   Required buffer zones shall comply with and be maintained to the
following standards:
 
Buffer Requirements                           Major   Moderate Minor
Minimum width                                 30 feet 20 feet  10 feet
Equivalent of 2 rows of approved canopy trees 20 foot interval 30 foot interval
staggered at a maximum of:
6 foot high continuous obscuring screen       Required
 
      (2)   If the adjacent district is located across a street and across a
required front yard, then the buffer shall be placed at a point that is between
the side yard and front yard, parallel to the street right-of-way.
      (3)   The required six foot high continuous obscuring screen may be
comprised of plant material, berming, screen walls or fences, or any
combination of these elements in addition to the required plant materials.
      (4)   If berming is used for all or part of the obscuring screen, all
required plant materials shall be placed on the top and both sides of the
slope. Where necessary the minimum buffer width shall be increased to
accommodate side slopes of a maximum of three feet in width to one foot in
height.
      (5)   If a screen wall or fence is used for all or part of the obscuring
screen the equivalent of four shrubs is required per 20 linear feet on each
side of the wall or fence, unless the wall or fence is constructed on the
property line, in which case all required plantings may be placed on the
interior of the lot.
      (6)   The balance of the required buffer shall be covered with grass or
approved ground cover in accordance with this section.
      (7)   Any plant material, berm, obscuring screen or other landscape
feature shall be installed in such a manner so as not to alter drainage
patterns on the site or on adjacent properties; obstruct vision for reasons of
safety, ingress or egress; or cause damage to utility lines (above and below
ground) and public roadways.
      (8)   Should the Village Council (or Zoning Administrator when Village
Council action is not required) determine, upon inspection, that adequate
landscaping screening on a site already exists or that a landscaping screen is
not required, the Council or Zoning Administrator may waive or reduce the
requirements of this section. Criteria which shall be used when considering a
waiver or reduction shall include, but shall not be limited to:
         (a)   Topography variations.
         (b)   Existence of natural vegetation.
         (c)   Existing and proposed building placement.
         (d)   Sight distances.
         (e)   Adjacent land uses.
         (f)   Existence of floodplain and areas of poor soils.
§ 152.227 GENERAL LANDSCAPE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum plant material standards.
      (1)   Landscaping may include plant materials such as trees, shrubs,
ground covers, perennial and annual plants; landscape elements such as rocks,
water features, fences, walls, paving materials, and site lighting; and site
furnishings such as benches, drinking fountains, trash receptacles, and
planters.
      (2)   All plant materials shall be certified to be hardy to Clinton
County, free of disease and insects and conform to the standards of the
American Association of Nurserymen. All landscaping shall be maintained in a
healthy, neat and orderly state, free from refuse and debris. Any dead or
diseased plants shall be replaced.
      (3)   Minimum plant sizes at time of installation:
 
Tree Type                 Minimum Size at Planting
Deciduous Canopy Tree     2½ inch caliper
Deciduous Ornamental Tree 2 inch caliper
Evergreen Tree            6 foot height
Deciduous Shrub           2 foot height
Upright Evergreen Shrub   2 foot height
Spreading Evergreen Shrub 18 - 24 inch spread
 
      (4)   Calipers are measured at six inches above the ground, for calipers
of four inches or less, and measured at 12 inches above the ground for calipers
of greater than four inches. Tree and shrub heights are measured from the
ground to the highest point where branches of the bush or tree begin.
      (5)   Plant materials shall not consist or more than 33% of any one plant
species.
      (6)   The following trees are not permitted as they split easily; their
wood is brittle and breaks easily; their roots clog drains and sewers; and they
are unusually susceptible to disease or insect pests:
 
Alder        Elm, Siberian
Birch, paper Maple, Silver
Black Locust Mulberry
Box Elder    Poplars
Buckthorn    Tree of Heaven
Catalpa      Willows
Cottonwood
 
   (B)   Minimum standards for berms.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1787.png]
 
      (1)   Berms shall maintain a side slope not to exceed a one foot rise to
a three foot in width ratio.
      (2)   Berm areas not containing planting beds shall be covered with grass
or living ground cover maintained in a healthy growing condition.
      (3)   If a berm is constructed with a retaining wall or by terracing, the
earthen slope shall face the exterior of the site.
   (C)   Minimum standards for obscuring screen walls and fences.
      (1)   All obscuring screen walls and fences shall be constructed with
new, durable, weather resistant and easily maintained materials. Chain link and
barbed wire fences are not permitted.
      (2)   The obscuring screen wall or fence may be constructed with openings
that do not exceed 20% of the wall surface. The openings shall not reduce the
intended obscuring effect of the wall.
   (D)   Retention areas. Detention/retention areas shall be permitted within
buffer zones provided they do not hamper the screening intent of the buffer or
jeopardize the survival of the plant materials.
   (E)   Dumpsters. Outdoor solid waste dumpsters shall be screened by a
continuous opaque screen at least six feet high. The screen may be comprised of
berming, plant material, screen walls or fences or any combination of these
elements. Dumpsters may be installed within buffer zones. If walls or fences
are used, some additional landscaping should be used to improve the aesthetic
look. Enclosure doors to the dumpsters should remain in the shut position when
not necessary for immediate access.
   (F)   Phases. If a project is constructed in phases, the landscape screen
may also be constructed in phases. The Zoning Administrator shall determine the
extent of landscaping required for each phase based on:
      (1)   Adjacent land uses.
      (2)   Distance between land uses.
      (3)   Operational characteristic both on and off site.
      (4)   Building heights.
      (5)   Physical characteristics of the site such as topography, existing
vegetation, etc.
   (G)   Performance guarantee. If weather conditions or other factors
determined by the Zoning Administrator are sufficient enough to warrant a delay
in installing landscaping, a performance guarantee of a sufficient amount to
insure the installation of all required landscaping shall be required in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter to ensure that landscaping is
installed within a reasonable period of time.
   (H)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan shall be submitted for any new
development and for any changes to existing development, except as may be noted
in this chapter. The following minimum information shall be provided:
      (1)   Existing and proposed topography, correlated with the grading plan.
      (2)   Location, size, type, and condition of existing plant materials to
be saved, or moved; proposed means of protecting plant material during
construction.
      (3)   Location of proposed planting materials; a planting list of
proposed materials (size, quantity, botanical and common names, spacing, and
root type).
      (4)   Sections, elevations, plans and details of landscape elements such
as berms, walls, ponds, retaining walls, and tree wells.
      (5)   Proposed planting dates.
      (6)   Planting and staking details.
   (I)   Public right-of-way. No landscaping, other than lawn, shall be
provided or extend into a public right-of-way without specific written approval
from the Zoning Administrator, or as may be approved by the Planning Commission
or Village Council as part of other approvals.
   (J)   Clear vision areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1789.png]
      (1)   No plantings shall be established or maintained on any lot which
will obstruct the view of a vehicle driver approaching a street intersection.
There shall be maintained an unobstructed triangular area formed by the street
property lines and a line connecting them at points 15 feet from the
intersection of the street lines. This shall not prohibit the planting or
landscaping which will be less than three feet in height at maturity and
maintained at that height or lower.
      (2)   No vegetation shall be maintained in any yard which in the opinion
of the Zoning Administrator, will obstruct the view of vehicles entering and/or
leaving a site from driveways or adjacent roadways.
§ 152.228 ADDITIONAL LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Where deemed appropriate by the Village Council, Planning Commission
or Zoning Administrator where screening is needed to minimize visual, noise, or
other impacts from the proposed development or where there may be some other
adverse effect caused by the use being reviewed, or where otherwise required by
this chapter, additional landscaping or screening may be required. Such adverse
effect may include, but shall not be limited to, noise, lighting, hazard,
traffic conflict, or other such effect.
   (B)   The nature of such landscaping or screening shall be that required by
§
152.226. The Village Council, Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator may
designate which buffer is appropriate for the required landscaping or
screening.
   (C)   All other provisions of this subchapter shall be met.
   (D)   Landscaping in parking areas is governed by the provisions of §§
152.240 through
152.256.
§ 152.229 RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Any site on which a use permitted by this chapter is established shall
install a lawn for all land areas not covered by impervious surfaces within six
months following the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (B)   A performance guarantee may be required by the village to ensure that
landscaping is installed within the six month period. No landscape materials
other than lawn and street trees approved by the Zoning Administrator shall be
planted within any untraveled portion of a public road right-of-way or public
easement for public utilities.
   (C)   Residential landscaping shall comply with the applicable provisions of
this subchapter.
§ 152.230 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Exterior building design.
      (1)   Buildings with exterior walls greater than 50 feet in horizontal
length shall be constructed using a combination of architectural features and a
variety of building materials and landscaping near the walls.
         (a)   Walls which can be viewed from public streets shall be designed
using architectural features and landscaping (abutting the building) for at
least 30% of the wall length.
         (b)   Other walls shall incorporate architectural features and
landscaping for at least 20% of the wall length.
         (c)   Window areas shall cover 15% or more of the exterior wall area
facing the principal street(s) from which access is gained.
      (2)   Architectural features.
         (a)   Architectural features include, but are not limited to the
following: recesses, projections, wall insets, arcades, window display areas,
awnings, balconies, window projections, landscape structures or other features
that complement the design intent of the structure and are acceptable to the
review authority.
         (b)   In addition, a portion of the on-site landscaping shall abut the
walls so that the vegetation combined with the architectural features
significantly reduce the visual impact of the building mass as viewed from the
street. Additional landscaping requirements of this chapter must also be
satisfied.
      (3)   Building materials.
         (a)   The predominant building materials should be materials that are
characteristic of Michigan such as brick, decorative tilt-up panels, wood,
native stone and tinted/textured concrete masonry units and/or glass products.
         (b)   Other materials such as smooth-faced concrete block, undecorated
tilt-up concrete panels, or pre-fabricated steel panels should only be used as
accents and not dominate the building exterior of the structure.
         (c)   Metal roofs may be allowed if compatible with the overall
architectural design of the building.
      (4)   Roof design.
         (a)   Roofs should be designed to reduce the apparent exterior mass of
a building, add visual interest and be appropriate to the architectural style
of the building.
         (b)   Architectural methods shall be used to conceal flat roof tops.
         (c)   Overhanging eaves, sloped roofs and multiple roof elements are
highly encouraged.
      (5)   Customer entrances. Clearly defined, highly visible customer
entrances using features such as canopies, porticos, arcades, arches, wing
walls, and integral planters are highly encouraged.
   (B)   Community amenities. Community amenities such as patio/seating areas,
water features, art work or sculpture, clock towers, pedestrian plazas with
park benches or other features located adjacent to the primary entrance to the
building(s) are highly encouraged and may be calculated as part of the
landscaping requirement.
   (C)   Building and sign colors. Exterior colors shall be of low reflectance,
subtle, neutral or earth tone colors. The use of high intensity colors such as
black, neon, metallic or flourescent for the facade and/or roof of the building
are prohibited except as approved for building trim. The use of trademark
colors will require approval.
   (D)   Lighting and flag poles.
      (1)   On site lighting shall be shielded with cut-off fixtures that
direct light downward and onto the site and not shine or glare onto adjacent
property or streets.
      (2)   Lighting shall not be attached to buildings or other structures
that permit light to be directed horizontally.
   (E)   Natural features. Buildings shall be sited to protect existing natural
areas such as steep natural grades, trees, significant groupings of healthy
vegetation (shrubs and trees) and rock outcroppings. These areas are encouraged
to be incorporated into the overall site plan and may be calculated as part of
the landscaping requirement if healthy and not damaged during construction.
   (F)   Building location and orientation. New buildings shall have at least
one principal building entrance oriented toward the front lot line.
   (G)   Pedestrian walkways.
      (1)   Walkways from the sidewalk to building entrances.
         (a)   A continuous pedestrian walkway shall be provided from any
adjacent street sidewalk for pedestrians to access building entrances.
         (b)   This internal walkway shall incorporate a mix of landscaping,
benches, and bicycle facilities for at least 50% of the length of the walkway.
         (c)   Walkways shall be connected to adjacent sites wherever
practicable.
      (2)   Walkways from parking areas to building entrances.
         (a)   Internal pedestrian walkways shall be developed for persons who
need access to the building(s) from internal parking areas. The walkways shall
be located within the parking areas and shall be designed to provide access
from these areas to the entrances of the building(s).
         (b)   The walkways shall be designed to separate people from moving
vehicles as much as possible.
         (c)   These walkways shall have a minimum width of five feet with no
vehicle overhang or other obstruction.
         (d)   The walkways must be designed for disabled access according to
the adopted Building Code for the Village of Fowler.
         (e)   The walkways shall be distinguished from the parking and driving
areas by use of any of the following materials: special pavers, bricks, raised
elevation or scored concrete. Other materials may be used if they are
appropriate to the overall design of the site and building and acceptable to
the review authority.
   (H)   Mechanical equipment and service areas. Mechanical equipment and
service areas shall be visually screened from adjacent properties, public
roadways, parks, or other public areas. The architectural design of the
building shall incorporate design features which screen, contain and conceal
all heating, ventilation, air conditioning units, trash enclosures, dumpsters,
loading docks and service yards.
   (I)   Parking lot landscaping. This division is applicable to parking lots
serving any nonresidential or multiple family use in any district. A parking
lot landscape plan shall be submitted with any application for a building
permit or when otherwise required by this chapter.
      (1)   Landscaping required by this division shall comply with the
applicable provisions of §§
152.240 through
152.256, except that the requirements of this division shall be waived if the
area normally required by this division to be landscaped is located in a
required buffer area.
      (2)   Existing parking areas.
         (a)   These requirements shall be met for any existing parking lot
which is expanded more than 25% of its original existing area, after the
adoption of this chapter, or when any parking area is substantially altered
(e.g., removal and replacement of existing pavement).
         (b)   Any landscaping existing within or bordering any existing
parking area shall not be removed unless replaced with landscaping meeting the
requirements of this section.
      (3)   General requirements.
         (a)   Landscaping shall be planted and installed such that, when
mature, it does not obscure traffic signs, fire hydrants, or lighting, and does
not alter drainage patterns on the site or on adjacent properties; obstruct
vision for reasons of safety, ingress or egress; or cause damage to utility
lines (above and below ground) and public roadways.
         (b)   Any landscaped area required by this division shall be
constructed outside any public street right-of-way.
         (c)   All landscaped areas, including perimeter areas, shall be
protected by a raised or rolled concrete curb.
      (4)   Frontage landscaping.
         (a)   Where any parking area directly abuts or faces a public street,
a screen shall be required between the parking area and the road right-of-way.
Such screen shall consist of, at a minimum, one of the following:
            1.   A strip of land at least five feet in width and a solid screen
comprised of a hedge or decorative wall, or any combination thereof, which
measures at least three feet in height; or
            2.   A strip of land at least ten feet in width containing
landscaping equivalent to a minor buffer, as described in §
152.226 except that the obscuring screen need not be provided.
         (b)   The required strip of land shall also be covered with grass or
other approved ground cover.
      (5)   Interior landscaping.
         (a)   Interior landscaping shall be provided for any parking area
containing 12 or more parking spaces.
         (b)   The interior of the parking lot shall begin at the outside
boundary of the parking area.
         (c)   The interior area of any parking lot shall incorporate one
planting island per each 12 parking spaces, or part thereof.
         (d)   Each planting island shall be at least 90 square feet in area
with a minimum single dimension of nine feet.
         (e)   Landscaped islands shall be dispersed evenly throughout the
parking lot and may be used to separate pedestrian areas, maneuvering areas,
and drives.
         (f)   Trees planted shall comply with the provisions of §
152.227(A).
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 152.240 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of this subchapter that off-street parking and loading
spaces shall be provided and adequately maintained by each property owner in
every district for the parking of motor vehicles for the use of occupants,
employees, vendors, and patrons of each building and premise constructed,
altered, or enlarged under the provisions of this chapter.
§ 152.241 JURISDICTION.
   At the time any building or structure is erected, enlarged, or increased in
capacity, or new uses established, off-street parking spaces shall be provided
in all districts according to the requirements specified in this subchapter.
§ 152.242 PARKING AND LOADING PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Whenever five or more vehicle parking spaces are required for a given
use of land, plans and specifications for the construction or alteration of an
off-street parking area shall be submitted for approval of the Village Council,
after receipt of a recommendation from the Planning Commission, before a
development permit is issued.
   (B)   Such plans and specifications shall indicate the location, precise use
of buildings, size, site, design, surfacing, marking, lighting, drainage, curb
cuts, entrances, exits, landscaping, and any other detailed features essential
to the complete design and construction of the parking area.
   (C)   Whenever 15 or more vehicle parking spaces are required for a given
use of land, plans and specifications for the construction or alteration of
off-street parking areas shall be submitted by a registered professional
engineer or other appropriate professional.
§ 152.243 LOCATION OF PARKING AREAS.
   All off-street parking and loading areas shall be located on the same lot,
or other lot in the same zoning district located not more than 200 linear feet
from the building intended to be served. On-street public parking may be
considered available to meet all or any portion of the needs of a non-
residential use, provided that the Planning Commission finds parking spaces are
reasonably available at the time of day needed.
§ 152.244 PARKING AREAS EXISTING BEFORE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHAPTER.
   A parking area, parking space, or loading area which exists at the time this
chapter becomes effective, or which subsequent thereto is provided for the
purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall not be
relinquished or reduced in any manner below the requirements established by
this chapter.
§ 152.245 USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The right-of-way of any village street, shall not be used for off-street
parking without the written permission of the Clinton County Road Commission,
the Village Council and/or the State of Michigan Department of Transportation
depending on the jurisdiction for the street.
§ 152.246 USES OF PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Parking spaces and loading areas shall be used exclusively for the
parking of vehicles associated with a building, structure or land use for which
whose employees and patrons it is designed to serve. No commercial activity,
special events, repair work, advertising, servicing, or selling of any kind
shall be conducted within required parking areas without permission being
granted by the Village Council. No portable structures, buildings, or equipment
shall be permitted within required parking areas, except as may otherwise be
permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   No signs shall be erected in parking areas except the following: no
more than one directional sign at each entrance or exit may be erected which
may also bear the name of the enterprise the lot is intended to serve; disabled
parking space signs, as provided by the Michigan Construction Code Act, Public
Act 230 of 1977, as amended, M.C.L.A. 125.1501 et seq. Such signs shall not
project beyond the property line of the premises.
§ 152.247 SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following table contains the parking requirements for individual uses
and activities within the Village of Fowler:
USE Number of Parking Spaces Required Per Unit of Measure*
USE                                     Number of Parking Spaces Required Per
                                        Unit of Measure*
Residential / Institutional / Recreational
                                        Three for each dwelling unit, one of
Single family or duplex dwellings       which shall be within an enclosed
                                        garage
                                        Three for each dwelling unit, one of
Multiple family dwellings               which shall be within a covered parking
                                        structure
Lodging and boarding house, fraternity,
or similar use, including bed and       One for each room
breakfasts
                                        One for every two dwelling units, plus
                                        one space for each five dwelling units.
Housing for the elderly                 However, should units revert to general
                                        occupancy, then three spaces per unit
                                        shall be provided, one of which shall
                                        be within a covered parking structure
                                        One space for each 100 square feet of
Community building, clubhouse, meeting  gross building area or one space for
facility, or any similar type of use.   each three persons permitted to occupy
                                        the building by law, whichever is
                                        greater
Churches, synagogues, temples or        One for each four seats in the main
similar places of worship               room for worship
Hospitals                               Two for each patient bed
Assisted living, skilled nursing, and   25 spaces for each patient bed and one
hospice for the aged and nursing home   space for each employee in the largest
                                        working shift
Day care centers, group                 Two spaces, plus one for every eight
                                        children licensed capacity
                                        Five spaces plus one space for each
Elementary and junior high schools      classroom in addition to the
                                        requirements of the auditorium
                                        Five spaces plus one space for each
                                        classroom plus one space for each ten
Senior high schools                     students, OR space required for the
                                        auditorium or stadium, whichever is
                                        greater
Theaters & auditoriums
Stadium, sports arenas or similar       One for each four seats
places of outdoor assembly
Dance halls, civic clubs, fraternal     One space for each 100 square feet of
orders, union halls, or any similar     gross floor area or one space for each
type of use                             three persons permitted to occupy the
                                        building by law, whichever is greater
Commercial
                                        Three standing spaces for each washing
Automobile washes                       bay if self-serve and seven standing
                                        spaces for an automatic wash
Vehicle repair and service stations     Two for each service bay and one for
                                        each washing bay
Miniature golf courses                  Five spaces plus three for each hole
                                        Five for each alley, in addition to any
Bowling alleys                          requirement for other uses such as bar,
                                        restaurant or billiard room
Funeral homes and mortuary              One for each 30 square feet of floor
establishments                          space
Personal service establishments         One space for each 50 square feet UFA
                                        One space for each 100 square feet UFA
                                        or one space for each two persons
Restaurants - without drive-through     allowed within the maximum occupancy
facilities                              load established by any applicable
                                        codes or ordinances, whichever is
                                        greater
                                        One space for each 100 square feet of
                                        UFA or one space for each one and one-
Restaurants with drive-through          half persons allowed within the maximum
facilities                              occupancy load established by any
                                        applicable codes or ordinances,
                                        whichever is greater
Retail stores not otherwise specified   One space for each 300 square feet GFA
Video rental stores                     One space for each 100 square feet UFA
                                        One for each occupancy unit plus extra
                                        spaces for dining rooms, ballrooms, or
Motels, hotels, or other commercial     meeting rooms as required by this
lodging establishments                  chapter. Should units revert to
                                        multiple-type use, then two spaces per
                                        unit shall be provided
Office
Business or professional offices        One for every 300 square feet of floor
                                        area
Medical offices and clinics             One for every 150 square feet of floor
                                        area
Industrial
                                        One space for each 1,000 square feet
Industrial or research establishments   plus those spaces required for offices
                                        located on the premises
Warehousing or wholesale establishments One for every 1,700 square feet of
                                        floor area
* For the purposes of this subchapter, a seat shall be a minimum of 20 inches
in width.
[Amended 12-9-2013]
§ 152.248 RULES FOR MEASUREMENT AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the case of a use not specifically mentioned, the requirements of
off-street parking for a use which is mentioned and which is most similar to
the use not listed, shall apply.
   (B)   When benches, pews, or other similar seating is used, each 22 inches
of said seating shall be counted as one seat.
   (C)   Requirements for parking stated in terms of employees shall be based
upon the maximum number of employees likely to be on the premises during the
largest shift.
   (D)   Floor area, unless otherwise noted, shall include the entire enclosed
floor area of a building as measured from the exterior surface of exterior
walls.
   (E)   Where units or measurement determining the number of required parking
spaces result in a fraction equal to or greater than one-half an additional
space shall be required.
§ 152.249 SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All off-street parking areas shall be designed, constructed and
maintained in accordance with this section.
   (B)   All required parking areas shall have a bituminous asphalt or concrete
surface. Areas that are not typically accessible to the general public may be
allowed an alternate surface material to eliminate impervious surface areas of
a site. Alternate surface material will be considered on a case by case basis
by the Planning Commission and be based upon the context of the site and
surrounding areas and may be subject to screening of such areas. [Amended 4-17-
2017]
   (C)   Ingress and egress to parking areas shall be provided by means of
clearly limited and defined drives as provided for below:
      (1)   All parking areas providing more than five parking spaces shall be
provided with a drive for ingress and egress of not less than 24 feet in width.
When one-way drives or boulevards are utilized, the minimum width of a lane
shall be 12 feet.
      (2)   All parking areas providing more than five parking spaces shall be
designed so as to not make it necessary for vehicles to back directly onto a
street.
   (D)   Each parking space shall be clearly identifiable. Parking spaces and
maneuvering lanes shall be sufficient in width to allow ease in turning
movements in and out of parking spaces. The minimum requirement for parking
spaces and maneuvering lanes shall be as follows:
      (1)   For parking patterns 75 to 90 degrees, the maneuvering lane width
shall be a minimum of 24 feet.
      (2)   For parking patterns 54 to 74 degrees, the maneuvering lane width
shall be a minimum of 15 feet.
      (3)   For parking patterns 30 to 53 degrees, the maneuvering lane width
shall be a minimum of 12 feet.
      (4)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one way traffic movement,
except for the 90 degree pattern which may provide for two way traffic
movement.
   (E)   Off-street parking facilities for trucks, buses, and recreational
vehicles at restaurants, motels, hotels, service stations, commercial garages,
and similar establishments shall be sufficient in size to adequately serve
large vehicles and trucks without interfering with other vehicles shall not be
less than 12 feet in width and 40 feet in length. Access drives for such
vehicles shall be designed with adequate turning radius and with special
provisions for slow entry onto public streets and highways.
   (F)   Commercial vehicles.
      (1)   The owner, tenant, or lessee of any lot, parcel, or tract of land
in a residential district or on a lot used for residential purposes shall not
permit or allow the storage or parking, at any time thereon, of trucks, semi-
trucks and tractor trailers, manufactured homes, tractors, bulldozers, earth
carriers, drag lines, cranes, steam shovels and/or any other heavy equipment or
machinery.
      (2)   It is provided, however, that the owner, tenant, or lessee of a
farm may openly store the machinery and equipment used on the farm; and it is
further provided that equipment necessary to be parked on a lot or parcel
during the construction work thereon shall be excepted from this restriction.
      (3)   This restriction shall not apply to pickup or panel trucks under 19
feet in length.
   (G)   Parking lots shall be adequately lit to ensure security and safety and
shall meet the following requirements:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1791.png]
      (1)   Light fixtures shall be no higher than 20 feet and shall be
provided with light cut-off fixtures that direct light downward.
      (2)   For parking lots serving a single building or groups of related
commercial, industrial, or office buildings in excess of 500 spaces the
Planning Commission may permit a higher light fixture in selected locations
within the parking lot where existing or planned residential areas will not be
affected.
      (3)   Lighting shall not be attached to buildings or other structures
that permit light to be directed horizontally. [Amended 12-9-2013]
§ 152.250 JOINT USE OF PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   The use of a single parking area by two or more uses which are
individually required to maintain more than ten parking spaces shall be
encouraged whenever such use is practical and when all requirements for
location, design, and construction are met.
   (B)   In computing capacities of any joint use of parking areas, the total
parking space requirement is the sum of the individual requirements that will
occur at the same time each day. When parking space requirements for individual
uses occur at distinctly different times during the day, the total required
parking spaces may be reduced by action of the Village Council, upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission, provided that no parking spaces
shall be counted which are more than 200 feet from any entrance to building
using joint parking areas.
   (C)   A copy of an agreement between the joint users of a parking area shall
be recorded with the Clinton County Register of Deeds. Such agreement shall
guarantee the long term use and maintenance of the parking facility by each
party.
§ 152.251 BUILDING ADDITIONS AND CHANGE OF USE.
   Whenever a building, structure, or use is modified, expanded, and changed in
use from one category to another, and such activity requires a permit pursuant
to this chapter, the parking space requirements shall be reviewed and made to
comply with the standards of this chapter.
§ 152.252 LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In order to prevent undue interference with the public use of streets,
every manufacturing, storage, warehouse, department store, wholesale store,
retail store, hotel, hospital, laundry, dairy, mortuary, and other uses
similarly and customarily receiving or distributing goods by motor vehicle
shall provide loading and unloading space on the premises for the number of
vehicles that will be at the premises at a particular time on an average day of
full use.
   (B)   Plans and specifications showing required loading and unloading spaces
including the means of ingress and egress and interior circulation shall be
submitted pursuant to §§
152.190 through
152.195, Site Plan Review.
   (C)   Loading spaces required under this section shall be provided as area
additional to off-street parking spaces required in this subchapter, and such
loading spaces shall not be considered as supplying off-street parking space.
   (D)   There shall be provided adequate space for standing, loading, and
unloading services not less than 12 feet in width, 40 feet in length, and 15
feet in height, open or enclosed, for uses listed in the following table:
Use Floor Area Required Spaces
    (Sq. Ft.)
Use                             Floor Area                      Required Spaces
                                (Sq. Ft.)
Commercial uses, such as retail First 2,000                     none
stores, personal services       Next 20,000 or fraction thereof 1
amusement, automotive service   Each additional 20,000 or       1
                                fraction thereof
                                First 2,000                     none
Hotels, offices                 Each additional 50,000 or       1
                                fraction thereof
Wholesale and storage,          First 20,000                    1
including building and          Each additional 20,000 or       1
contractor's yards              fraction thereof
                                First 20,000 or fraction        1
Manufacturing uses              thereof
                                Each additional 20,000 or       1
                                fraction thereof
                                First 5,000 or fraction thereof
Funeral homes and mortuaries    Each additional 10,000 or       1
                                fraction thereof
                                First 10,000                    none
                                Next 100,000 or fraction        1
Hospitals                       thereof
                                Each additional 200,000 or      1
                                fraction thereof
For similar use not listed      For each building 5,000 or over 1
 
   (E)   All off-street loading and unloading facilities that make it necessary
to back directly into a public road shall be prohibited. All maneuvering of
trucks and other vehicles shall take place on the site and not within a public
right-of-way.
   (F)   Design requirements.
      (1)   Off-street loading spaces and access drives shall be drained, and
shall have appropriate bumper or wheel guards where needed.
      (2)   Any light used for illumination shall be arranged to reflect light
away from adjoining premises and streets.
      (3)   Where any off-street loading space adjoins or abuts a lot or
premises used for residential or educational purposes, or abuts the residential
zoning district, a masonry wall or solid fence not less than four feet in
height shall be provided between the off-street loading and unloading space and
said uses or district.
§ 152.253 DEFERRED PARKING.
   The Village Council, upon recommendation from the Planning Commission, may
defer construction of a portion of the required number of parking spaces for
nonresidential uses if the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Deferred parking areas shall be shown on a site plan and shall be of
sufficient area to permit the construction of the total number of parking
spaces required by this section. Such areas shall not be used for any other
purpose required by this chapter (such as landscaped buffers, etc.) and shall
be kept open.
   (B)   Alterations to the deferred parking area to add parking spaces may be
initiated by the owner or required by the Zoning Administrator based on parking
needs and shall require the submission and approval of an amended site plan, as
required by §§
152.190 through
152.195.
§ 152.254 DISABLED PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street parking areas shall include spaces for the disabled in accordance
with the provisions of Act 230 of the Public Acts of the State of Michigan,
1972, as amended and shall be included in the count of required spaces.
§ 152.255 NONRESIDENTIAL AND MULTIPLE FAMILY ACCESS.
   (A)   The following shall apply to any new development proposed for
nonresidential and multiple family uses:
      (1)   A maximum of one driveway per street shall be permitted per
principal use, or collective principal use.
      (2)   A second driveway may be permitted provided that such drive is
constructed and permitted to share access with an adjoining principal use or
existing lot within the same zoning district, or such drive is part of a one-
way driveway system that permits a single point of ingress and a single point
of egress.
      (3)   The Village Planning Commission may permit additional driveways, if
justified by a professional traffic study provided by the applicant or owner
indicating the need for such additional driveways.
      (4)   The location of new driveways shall be determined by the Village
Planning Commission which shall take the following factors into consideration:
         (a)   The ability to share driveways with adjacent properties and the
general compatibility of those adjacent land uses;
         (b)   The proximity of the proposed driveways to existing driveways on
adjacent properties and properties on the opposite side of the street;
         (c)   Any provisions made for front or rear service drives that may
eliminate the potential for future driveways on nearby properties;
         (d)   The relationship of the proposed driveway location to the
internal circulation of the development site;
         (e)   The proximity of the proposed driveway to street intersections.
Driveways shall be located as far as practicable from any public or private
street intersection.
§ 152.256 PARKING AND STORAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Seasonal parking. Parking of a recreational vehicle in a residential
driveway is allowed during the customary season of use. Parking of out of
season recreational vehicles is considered in storage and would have to meet
the storage criteria as identified below. Parking time limits do not apply if
the vehicle's primary use is for transportation of the owner. Parking of
recreational vehicles shall not obstruct views of pedestrians and/or drivers
and shall be 15 feet from exterior edge of roadway and five feet from exterior
edge of sidewalk.
   (B)   Storage.
      (1)   Location. The recreational vehicle shall be parked on a lot with an
inhabited dwelling unit as follows:
         (a)   Rear yard: setback distance shall be five feet from the rear lot
line, or shall meet the setback requirements of an accessory building.
         (b)   Side yard: the recreational vehicle cannot project past the
front wall of the house. Setback distance from the side lot line shall be three
feet, or shall meet the setback requirements of an accessory building.
      (2)   Size. The space which can be dedicated to vehicular storage shall
not exceed one- half of the ground floor area of the main building.
   (C)   Condition of recreational vehicle. The recreational vehicle shall be
fully operational and display the current license plate/registration. It cannot
be used for living or housing purposes and shall not have any fixed connections
to electricity, water, gas, or sanitary sewer.
[Amended 10-13-2014]
SIGNS
§ 152.265 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote traffic safety, public safety,
and the conservation of property values through the application of reasonable
controls over the use, size, placement, and general appearance of signs.
§ 152.266 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions refer to this subchapter of this chapter and are
placed here for convenience:
   SIGN. Every individual announcement, declaration, demonstration, display,
illustration, insignia, surface or space when erected or maintained out of
doors in view of the general public for identification, advertisement or
promotion of the interests of any person.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. Any sign, displayed outdoors or visible from a public way,
which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract attention to
an object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event
or location not available on the lot on which the sign is located, or to
express a point of view, by any means, including words, letters, figures,
design, symbols, advertising flags, fixtures, colors, illuminations or
projected images. Each substantially different face of a billboard structure
shall constitute a separate billboard.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. Any sign erected for the purpose of advertising a business,
product, or subject related to the premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, DISPLAY AREA. Display area means the entire area enclosing the extreme
limits or writing, lighting, representation, emblem or any figure of similar
character, together with any frame or other material forming an integral part
of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the background against
which it is placed; excluding the necessary supports or uprights on which such
sign is placed.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. An advertising structure which is supported by one or
more uprights with all parts of the display surface of the sign eight feet or
more above the grade at the base of the sign.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign which is supported by one or more uprights in or upon
the ground where parts of the display surface are less than eight feet above
the grade to the bottom of the display area.
   SIGN, HOME OCCUPATION. A sign containing only the name and occupation used
for the purpose of advertising services in conjunction with a lawful home
occupation.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign giving the nature, logo, trademark or other
identifying symbol; address; or any combination of the name, symbol and address
of a building, business, development or establishment on the premises where it
is located.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A sign that identifies street address, entrances and
exits, safety precautions, identifying logos without text, and other such
incidental information, and which sets forth no other advertisement intended to
be read from the street.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A sign which is attached to or hung from the underside of a
marquee, awning, canopy, or other covered structure projecting from and
supported by a building and does not project horizontally beyond or vertically
above said marquee, awning, canopy, or covered structure.
   SIGN, NAME PLATE. A sign located on premises, giving the name or address, or
both, of the owner or occupant of a building or premises.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISE. A sign located on a different parcel of land or lot or
premise than where the business, product, service, event, or person or subject
is being advertised.
   SIGN, ON-PREMISE. A sign located on the parcel of land or lot advertising a
business, product, service, event, person or subject being offered on said
parcel of land or lot.
   SIGN, PLACARD. A sign not exceeding two square feet which provides notices
of a public nature, such as "No Trespassing" or "No Hunting" signs.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign that is not permanent, affixed to a building,
structure or the ground including signs supported on mobile chassis other than
motor vehicles.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign which is attached directly to the building wall,
and which extends more than 15 inches but not more than five feet from the face
of the wall.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign which is erected, constructed and maintained upon or
above the roof of a building, or parapet wall and which is wholly or partially
supported by the building.
   SIGN, SETBACK. The minimum linear distance as measured from the street
right-of-way line to the nearest part of the sign or advertising structure.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign that is attached directly to a wall, mansard roof, roof
overhang, parapet wall, or above a marquee of a building with the exposed face
of the sign in a plane parallel to the building wall or to the surface on which
it is mounted, and which projects not more than 18 inches from the building or
structure wall, and which does not have any part of such sign or sign supports
extending above the uppermost building line not including chimneys, flag poles,
electrical or mechanical equipment, TV antennas or any other similar equipment
and extensions.
§ 152.267 GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO SIGNS.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   No sign, name plate, marquee, or other advertising structure shall
be erected, replaced, structurally altered, enlarged, illuminated, changed in
purpose, or relocated without first obtaining a sign permit pursuant to this
subchapter, except those signs specifically exempted by division (D) of this
section.
      (2)   An application for a sign permit shall be made to the Village
Clerk, by the owner of the property on which the sign is proposed to be located
or by his or her agent, or lessee.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all properly filed
applications for sign permits and issue permits only for those applicants fully
meeting the criteria established in this chapter and the Village Building Code.
The Zoning Administrator shall approve or reject the application within a
reasonable time period of receipt of a completed application submittal.
      (4)   A schedule of permit fees shall be established and may be amended
from time to time by resolution of the Village Council.
   (B)   Determination of display area and height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46e22418e23b26249f25da64afce963bd00e14e4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1793.png]
      (1)   Except as noted in divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of this section, the
display area permitted for any sign shall be determined as the entire area
within a square, rectangle, circle, triangle or parallelogram enclosing the
extreme limits or writing, lighting, representation, emblem or any figure of
similar character, together with any frame or other material forming an
integral part of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the
background against which it is placed; excluding the necessary supports or
uprights on which such sign is placed.
      (2)   Where a sign has two or more faces, the area of all faces shall be
included in determining the area of the sign; except that where two such faces
are placed back to back and are at no point more than three feet from one
another, the area of the sign shall be taken as the area of one face if the two
faces are of equal area, or as the area of the larger face if the two faces are
of unequal area.
      (3)   The display area of signs painted directly on building wall
surfaces shall be limited to that area within a circle, square, rectangle,
triangle, or parallelogram enclosing the extreme limits of writing, letters or
numbers.
      (4)   Time and temperature displays including clock facings shall not
herein be counted toward the allowable sign display area.
      (5)   The height of a sign shall be measured to the maximum vertical
distance from the uppermost extremity of a sign or sign support to the average
ground level at the base of the sign. Berms or other supporting measures for
any sign shall be included in the computation for height.
      (6)   Buildings with multiple tenants.
         (a)   The sign areas for wall signs, marquee signs, projecting signs,
and awning signs shall be determined by taking that portion of the front wall
of the building, applicable to each tenant space, and computing sign
requirements for that portion of the total wall.
         (b)   In the case of a corner lot, the wall area adjacent to the
tenant space on the second street frontage shall be used to calculate the sign
area for a second wall sign, awning sign, or projecting sign.
         (c)   Each sign shall be attached to the same wall which is used to
determine its size.
   (C)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Any sign not expressly permitted is prohibited, including all signs
noted in this division.
      (2)   Roof signs. For the purpose of this subchapter, a sign that is
mounted on a mansard roof, roof overhang, parapet wall, above a marquee, or on
a wall with a roof below, shall not be considered as a roof sign, but shall
instead be considered as a wall sign for that side of the building, provided
that no part of such sign extends above the uppermost building line not
including chimneys, flag poles, electrical, mechanical equipment, TV antennas
and other similar equipment and extensions.
      (3)   No sign shall employ any flashing, moving, oscillating, blinking,
or variable intensity light or intermittent lights resembling the flashing
lights customarily used in traffic signals, or police, fire, ambulance, or
rescue vehicles, or lights so bright as to be blinding or distracting to a
vehicle driver. However, variable time-temperature signs and intermittent
electronic message boards may be permitted, provided each message shall not
change more often than once every three seconds.
      (4)   No sign shall contain any moving or animated parts nor have the
appearance of having any moving or animated parts.
      (5)   No sign shall use the words, "Stop," "Danger," or any other words,
phrases, symbols, or characters, in such a manner as to interfere with,
mislead, or confuse a vehicle driver.
      (6)   Billboards either as on or off-premise signs.
      (7)   Any sign which obstructs the ingress or egress from a required
door, window, or other required exit.
      (8)   Signs located in the right-of-way of public streets or highways,
except as may otherwise be permitted by the agency or governmental jurisdiction
having jurisdiction over such right-of-way which includes review and approval
by the Village of Fowler, or as otherwise may be permitted by this subchapter.
(Amended 10/10/11)
   (D)   Exempt signs. The following signs are permitted on premise with
permission of the landowner without a written sign permit.
      (1)   Real estate signs on premise for property to be sold or leased.
      (2)   Building construction signs.
      (3)   Political signs.
      (4)   Placards and directional signs, not exceeding six square feet in
display area on each side.
      (5)   Signs identifying a builder's address and/or the names of the
occupants, but not advertising an occupation or business and not exceeding two
square feet in display area on each side.
      (6)   Historic markers, signs identifying the name of a building or date
of erection of a structure and official notices of any court or public agency
not exceeding six square feet in display area on each side.
      (7)   Incidental signs located on the premises of a customary
agricultural operation as defined in this chapter which identify and advertise,
name of a farm, the operator's name, seed, fertilizer, herbicide, pesticide,
feed, feed supplements, livestock, test plots, farm organizations, awards, and
similar agricultural activities, including seed, feed, fertilizer, herbicide,
and pesticide dealers, but excluding equipment and implement dealers and
related repair facilities. Such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in total
display area including all such signs.
      (8)   Signs identifying the owner, operator, or name of a customary
agricultural operation when located on agricultural buildings without display
area limitations.
      (9)   Traffic control, directional, warning, or informational signs when
authorized by a public agency having appropriate jurisdiction which conforms to
the requirements of the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
      (10)   Flags, pennants, or banners bearing the official insignia of a
nation, state, county, municipality, or educational institution not to exceed
50 square feet in display area on each side and not used for the purposes of
advertisement.
   (E)   Residential subdivisions. Provided below is a list of additional
regulations applicable to ground signs and decorative walls for residential
subdivisions (see also §
152.269).
      (1)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, a sign identifying
entrances to a residential subdivision within the village may be permitted.
Such signs shall be permitted as noted in §
152.269, provided that they will not, by reason of their size, location,
construction, or manner of display, endanger persons or property, cause a
traffic hazard, be incompatible with adjoining property use, and shall
harmonize with aesthetic considerations of the subdivision.
      (2)   The location of subdivision identification signs may be within the
public street right-of-way, but not in the traveled portion thereof for
vehicular traffic. Written approvals of proposed sign placement and location
shall first be obtained from appropriate village or county officials.
      (3)   All such signs shall be maintained in good condition and be
visually attractive. The immediate area surrounding the sign shall be
landscaped.
      (4)   Maintenance of all signs shall be at the expense of the owner, or
owners, of the signs, which may be the subdivision property owners association,
proprietor of the plat or other responsible person or entity.
      (5)   The owner(s) of such signs shall obtain liability insurance
coverage for injury to persons and damage to property, arising out of their
ownership, use or maintenance, in limits suitable to the village. Such
insurance shall be primary to all other insurance coverage, shall include the
village as a named insured, and shall be maintained at all times while the sign
is located within the public street right-of-way. Proof of insurance shall be
furnished to the village.
      (6)   As a condition of approval of the placement of subdivision signs in
the public street right-of-way the owner(s) of the sign shall enter into an
agreement with the Village of Fowler in which the owner(s) covenants to hold
the village harmless from any injury to persons and/or property damage arising
out of the ownership, use and maintenance of the signs, and to indemnify the
village for any injury and/or damage it may sustain by reason of such
ownership, use or maintenance, including costs and attorney's fees.
      (7)   Removal and replacement of such signs shall be by application to
the Zoning Administrator. Approval shall be granted by the Zoning Administrator
unless safety conditions, sign modifications, utility placement or relocation,
street widening or relocation, need of other municipal improvements, or other
such changing conditions occur which may for reasons of public health, safety,
and welfare make replacement impractical. The village may require removal of
such signs in the public right-of-way, at the owner's expense in any such cases
where the public health, safety, or welfare is adversely affected by the
continued existence of the sign in its location.
§ 152.268 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ANY ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Construction signs. Signs identifying contractors, architects,
builders, or owners name during the period of construction are permitted
subject to the following restrictions:.
      (1)   Such signs shall not exceed 50 square feet in display area on each
side and eight feet in height.
      (2)   Signs designating the future site of a subdivision shall not exceed
32 square feet in display area on each side.
      (3)   Construction signs shall not be erected until a building permit has
been issued for the project which is the subject of the proposed sign and
construction activity has begun.
      (4)   Signs must be setback at least 15 feet from the front property
line.
      (5)   Construction signs shall be removed within 15 days of the issuance
of any occupancy permit for any building or structure which is the subject of
the construction sign.
   (B)   Directional signs. These signs are permitted subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   A directional sign may contain a logo of an on-premises
establishment, but no advertising copy.
      (2)   No such sign shall exceed six square feet in area or four feet in
height.
      (3)   Directional signs shall be limited to traffic control functions.
   (C)   Incidental signs. Signs pertaining to any conforming activity being
conducted on the premises are permitted in any district, subject to the
following restrictions:
      (1)   No individual sign shall exceed six square feet in area.
      (2)   Only those signs which, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator
are necessary to indicate entrances, exits, safety precautions, including
identifying logos without text, and other such incidental language shall be
permitted.
§ 152.269 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS, ILLEGAL SIGNS, AND SIGNS ACCESSORY TO NON-
CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Every permanent sign which does not conform to the height, size, area,
or location requirements of this section as of the date of the adoption of this
chapter, is hereby deemed to be non-conforming.
   (B)   Non-conforming signs may not be altered, expanded, enlarged, or
extended; however, non-conforming signs may be maintained and repaired so as to
continue the useful life of the sign.
   (C)   For purposes of this subchapter, a non-conforming sign may be
diminished in size or dimension or the copy of the sign amended or changed
without jeopardizing the privilege of non-conforming use. If a sign is non-
conforming in its setback, this section shall not apply, and the sign may not
be replaced.
   (D)   Any non-conforming sign destroyed by fire or other casualty loss shall
not be restored or rebuilt if the cost of reconstruction will constitute more
than 50% of the value of the sign on the date of loss.
   (E)   Any sign which for a period of 90 days or more no longer advertises a
bona fide business conducted, service performed, or product sold, shall be
removed by the owner of the building, structure, or property upon which such
sign is located, within 30 days of receipt of written notice by the Zoning
Administrator. This does not include activities that operate on a seasonal
basis, such as an ice cream stand, unless it is clear that the use has been
abandoned.
   (F)   A sign, accessory to a non-conforming use, may be erected in the
village in accordance with the sign regulations for the subject zoning
district.
§ 152.270 SIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Sign requirements for specific zoning districts are contained in the
following tables.
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS - PERMITTED SIGNS
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS - PERMITTED SIGNS
Ground signs for manufactured home parks, multiple family complexes, or other non-
residential uses allowed in the district
Number   1 per major entrance
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location Minimum of ½ of the front setback required for main buildings and a minimum of
         15 feet from any side or rear property line
Height   No higher than 8 feet
Ground signs and decorative walls for residential subdivisions (see also §
152.267(E))
Number   1 per street entrance
Size     No greater than 75 square feet (sign size only)
         Within a public street right-of-way, outside the traveled portion of the
Location roadway, unless permission from the owner of the property on which the sign is
         located grants permission. In this instance, the sign may be setback no more
         than 10 feet from the public right-of-way.
Height   No higher than 8 feet
Wall signs for home occupations
Number   1 per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 2 square feet
Location On wall of house facing street and non-illuminated
Wall signs for non-residential uses
Number   1 per street frontage
Size     No greater than 5% of the wall area to which the sign is affixed
Location On wall of building facing street
Political signs
Number   1 per issue or candidate per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 6 square feet
Location Minimum of 15 feet from any side or rear property line and no closer than the
         street right-of-way
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Real estate signs
Number   1 per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 6 square feet for lots or parcels under 1 acre; 32 square feet
         for vacant lots or parcels over 1 acre
Location Minimum of 15 feet from any side or rear property line and no closer than the
         street right-of-way
Height   No higher than 6 feet
 
(C-1) CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT - PERMITTED SIGNS
(C-1) CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT - PERMITTED SIGNS
Wall signs or projecting signs
Number   1 per street frontage plus 1 per side facing a parking lot to identify
         the location of any public entrance
         Street frontage - no greater than 10% of the wall area to which the
Size     sign is affixed; Parking lot frontage - no greater than 5% of the wall
         to which the sign is affixed
Location On wall of building facing street and wall facing public or private
         parking area
Height   Projecting sign: Minimum clear space of 8 feet from bottom of sign and
         not higher than the roof line of the building
Ground sign or freestanding sign, when no projecting signs are used
         1 street frontage (provided the frontage meets the required lot width
Number   for the district in which it is located), except that only 1 ground
         sign or 1 freestanding sign shall be permitted per street frontage
Size     No greater than 50 square feet per sign
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line or adjacent building
Height   Ground sign: No higher than 8 feet;
         Freestanding sign: No higher than 20 feet
Political signs
Number   1 per issue or candidate per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 6 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line or adjacent building
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Real estate signs
Number   1 per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 16 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from any property line or adjacent building and no
         closer than the street right-of-way
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Marquee signs
Number   1 per street frontage
Size     No greater than 50 square feet
Location On face of marquee
Height   Minimum clear space of 8 feet from bottom of marquee
Awning signs
Number   1 per awning face
Size     No greater than 20% of any awning face to which the sign is affixed
Location On face of awning
Height   Minimum clear space of 8 feet from bottom of awning
Portable signs
Number   1 per lot or parcel limited to a total display period of 90 days, in
         any 365 day period.
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location No closer than the street right-of-way
Height   No higher than 6 feet
 
(C-2) COMMERCIAL DISTRICT - PERMITTED SIGNS
(C-2) COMMERCIAL DISTRICT - PERMITTED SIGNS
Ground Signs
         1 per street frontage (provided the frontage meets the required lot width for
Number   the district in which it is located), except that only 1 ground sign or 1
         freestanding sign shall be permitted per street frontage
Size     No greater than 50 square feet
Location Minimum of 15 feet from any side or rear property line, minimum of 5 feet from
         the street right-of-way line
Height   No higher than 8 feet
Freestanding signs
         1 street frontage (provided the frontage meets the required lot width for the
Number   district in which it is located), except that only 1 ground sign or 1
         freestanding sign shall be permitted per street frontage
Size     No greater than 50 square feet
Location Minimum of 15 feet from any side or rear property line, minimum of 5 feet from
         the street right-of-way line
         No higher than 20 feet, except when the front setback of the sign exceeds 30
Height   feet 1 additional foot in height shall be allowed for each additional foot in
         setback beyond 30 feet
Wall signs
Number   1 per street frontage
Size     No greater than 10% of the wall area to which the sign is affixed.
Location On wall of building facing street
Political signs
Number   1 per issue or candidate
Size     No greater than 6 square feet
Location Minimum of 15 feet from any side or rear property line
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Real estate signs
Number   1 per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 16 square feet
Location Minimum of 10 feet from the street right-of-way line, 15 feet from all other
         property lines
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Portable signs
Number   1 per lot or parcel limited to a total display period of 90 days, in any 365
         day period.
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location Minimum of ½ the required setback for the main building from any property line
         and street right-of-way line
Height   No higher than 6 feet
 
(I) INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT - PERMITTED SIGNS
(I) INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT - PERMITTED SIGNS
Ground signs
Number   1 per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 32 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from the street right-of-way line, 15 feet from all
         other property lines
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Wall signs
Number   1 per street frontage
Size     No greater than 5% of the wall area to which the sign is affixed
Location On wall of building facing street
Political signs
Number   1 per issue or candidate per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 6 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from the street right-of-way line, 15 feet from all
         other property lines
Height   No higher than 6 feet
Real estate signs
Number   1 per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 16 square feet
Location Minimum of 5 feet from the street right-of-way line, 15 feet from all
         other property lines
Billboard signs
Number   1 per lot or parcel
Size     No greater than 150 square feet
         Minimum of 35 feet from the street right-of-way line, no closer than
Location 50 feet to any other property line, and no closer than 1,500 feet to
         any other billboard on the same of opposite side of the street
Height   No higher than 20 feet
 
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 152.280 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The role of the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) as authorized by
Michigan's zoning statutes is a unique and important one. The ZBA is empowered
to hear and decide appeals from any person or board aggrieved by an
administrative decision. An administrative decision is one made by a zoning
administrator or the planning commission, or by a legislative body acting in an
administrative capacity. The ZBA has significant authority relative to
interpreting and ultimately enforcing the legislative intent of zoning
regulations. This "quasi-judicial" responsibility is separate from the duties
carried out by the Village Council, Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator,
and others involved in zoning.
   (B)   No other body or individual in the village has the power to waive or
vary the requirements of the community's zoning law. For this reason, the
exercise of that authority must be carried out in conformance with prescribed
procedures to ensure to the extent possible that there is uniform application
of the zoning laws throughout the community.
   (C)   Obtaining a variance from the village's zoning laws should be
difficult, at best, to accomplish. Only the rarest of situations should qualify
and each must satisfy a number of prescribed tests in order to be granted
relief from the regulations that are ultimately intended to protect the general
health, safety, and welfare of the community. Each time a waiver of the rules
is granted, there is potential to erode the integrity of the community's zoning
regulations.
   (D)   As with all the village's boards, commissions, and committees, the
Zoning Board of Appeals is often asked to make tough choices. It is sometimes
difficult to remain entirely objective, not allowing emotion, compassion, and
personal preferences to influence a decision. But as a quasi-judicial body, the
ZBA must not be persuaded by likes and dislikes, personalities, or personal
feelings. Whether the ZBA agrees or disagrees with any provision in the
ordinance is irrelevant. Decisions must be based solely on the applicable
provisions of the zoning ordinance and the applicant's ability to qualify for
some relief from those provisions based on the standards of the ordinance.
   (E)   Unless caution is exercised, actions of the ZBA may sometimes have the
effect of amending the ordinance and violating the intent of its provisions.
The ZBA cannot amend the zoning ordinance, including providing rezonings or
text changes. The Board must function solely to provide relief for the rare
exception situation where conformance to the zoning requirements is either
impossible or would be extremely difficult. Secondarily, the Board must be the
"arbiter" of disputes or questions regarding the enforcement or interpretation
of the ordinance provisions. This job must be undertaken with a genuine
commitment to uphold the intent and spirit of the village zoning regulations.
§ 152.281 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Village Council consisting of the President and six Trustees, is
hereby established as the Zoning Board of Appeals and shall perform the duties
and exercise the powers as provided in P.A. 110 of 2006, and in such a way that
the objectives of this chapter shall be observed.
   (B)   (1)   One member shall be a member of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The creation, membership, and reappointment of a Zoning Board of
Appeals shall meet the requirements of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act of
2006.
   (C)   A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals who also serves a member of
the Planning Commission must abstain from voting on a matter being considered
by the Zoning Board of Appeals that he or she voted on as a member of the
Planning Commission where the facts and circumstances associated with the
particular decision under review make abstention necessary to satisfy the due
process requirement of impartial decision making.
[Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.282 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Rules of procedure. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt rules and/
or procedures for the conduct of its meetings and the performance of its powers
and duties. The procedures shall be in accord with the provisions of this
chapter and applicable state law. The Board shall annually elect a chairperson,
a vice chairperson, and a secretary.
   (B)   Meeting times. Meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held
at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may specify
in its rules of procedure. The applicable provisions of Public Act 267 of 1976,
as amended, M.C.L.A. 15.261 et seq. (Open Meetings Act) shall apply.
   (C)   Quorum. A majority of the total membership of the Board shall comprise
a quorum.
   (D)   Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of each meeting and the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall record into the minutes all findings, conditions, facts, and
other relevant factors, including the vote of each member upon each appeal
case. All meetings and records shall be open to the public. All minutes shall
be filed in the office of the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk, or the Clerk's
agent, shall act as recording secretary to the Zoning Board of Appeals,
including recording the minutes, publishing legal notices, and providing
notices to property owners and others required by law.
   (E)   Application to Zoning Board of Appeals. Applications shall not be
accepted unless all of the following information is submitted:
      (1)   A completed application form (provided by the village);
      (2)   An accurate, scaled site plan (if appropriate) with enough
information to clearly indicate the nature of the issue being considered. The
Zoning Administrator shall determine the completeness of such plans.
      (3)   An application fee as may be determined by the Village Council from
time-to-time.
      (4)   A written explanation from the applicant indicating why the
application meets the applicable review standards of this chapter.
   (F)   Public hearing. Upon receipt of an application as required by this
subchapter, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable date, time, and
place for a hearing and shall publish a notice of hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation within the village, and shall send such notice to the
applicant not less than 15 days before the hearing date. Notice shall also be
sent to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the
property involved in the appeal and to the occupants of all structures located
within 300 feet of the property, including properties and occupants located
outside of the village. The Board may adjourn any meeting held in order to
allow the obtaining of additional information, or to provide further notice as
it deems necessary. If the name of an occupant is not known, the term
"occupant" may be used in making notification. [Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.283 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear only those matters which it is
authorized to hear by Public Act 110 of 2006, and render its decision based
upon the criteria contained in this chapter. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
hear the following applications in accordance with the indicated standards:
   (A)   Administrative appeals.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals where it
is alleged that there is an error in fact, judgment, procedure, or
interpretation in any order, requirement, permit, or decision made by the
Zoning Administrator or other body enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Site plan review.
         (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review and make final
determination on properly filed appeals from action by the Planning Commission
with respect to site plan reviews conducted pursuant to §§
152.190 through
152.195.
         (b)   The Zoning Board of Appeals has the power to sustain, reverse or
remand for further consideration the decision of the Planning Commission when
it is found that the decision is inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter or that there was an error of fact involved in the decision. In making
this determination, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall examine the application
and all accompanying data as well as the records of the actions with respect to
the site plan review.
   (B)   Interpretations.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to make an
interpretation of the provisions of this chapter when it is alleged that
certain provisions are not clear or that they could have more than one meaning.
In deciding upon the request, the Board shall insure that its interpretation is
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter and the subchapter in
which the language in question is contained.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may also make a determination of the
precise location of the boundary lines between zoning districts in accordance
with §§
152.090 through
152.095, and records, surveys, maps, and aerial photographs.
      (3)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may determine the classification of any
use of land not specifically mentioned as a part of the provisions of any
district, so that it conforms to a comparable permitted or prohibited use of
land in accordance with the purpose and intent of each district.
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may issue a determination of the off-
street parking and loading requirements of a use of land not specifically
mentioned in §§
152.240 through
152.095 such that it conforms to a comparable use of land.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, after public hearing, shall have the
power to grant requests for variances from the provisions of this chapter where
it is proved by the applicant that there are practical difficulties in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the chapter relating to the construction,
equipment, or alteration of buildings or structures so that the spirit of the
chapter shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
      (2)   Non-use variance (practical difficulty). A non-use variance may be
allowed by the Zoning Board of Appeals only in cases where there is reasonable
evidence of practical difficulty in the official record of the hearing and that
all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applying to the property in question that do not apply generally to
other properties in the same zoning district. Exceptional or extraordinary
circumstances or conditions include:
            1.   Exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific
property on the effective date of this chapter;
            2.   By reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other
extraordinary situation on the land, building or structure;
            3.   By reason of the use or development of the property
immediately adjoining the property in question; whereby the literal enforcement
of the requirements of this chapter would involve practical difficulties; or
            4.   Any other physical situation on the land, building or
structure deemed by the Zoning Board of Appeals to be extraordinary.
         (b)   That the condition or situation of the specific parcel of
property for which the variance is sought is not of so general or recurrent a
nature as to make reasonably practical the formulation of a general regulation
for such conditions or situations.
         (c)   That such variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right similar to that possessed by other
properties in the same zoning district and in the vicinity. The possibility of
increased financial return shall not of itself be deemed sufficient to warrant
a variance.
         (d)   The variance will not be significantly detrimental to adjacent
property and the surrounding neighborhood.
         (e)   The variance will not impair the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
         (f)   That the immediate practical difficulty causing the need for the
variance request was not created by any affirmative action of the applicant.
[Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.284 VOTING REQUIREMENTS, EFFECT OF VARIANCES, RESUBMISSION.
   (A)   Non-use variance, interpretation or administrative appeal. The
concurring vote of a majority of the entire membership of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be necessary to decide in favor of the applicant for a non-use
variance or other matter upon which the Board is required to pass.
   (B)   Finality of decisions. All decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall become final when the Board certifies its decision in writing or approves
the minutes of its decision.
   (C)   Variance time limit. Every non-use variance granted under the
provisions of this chapter shall become null and void unless the construction
authorized by such variance has been commenced within six months after the
granting of the variance.
      (1)   An applicant may, at no cost, request up to one six month extension
of said variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals, if applied for in writing
prior to the expiration of the variance approval.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant such extension provided that
the original circumstances authorizing the variance have not changed and that
the circumstances creating the need for the extension were beyond the control
of the applicant.
   (D)   Resubmission. No application for a variance which has been denied
wholly or in part by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be resubmitted for a
period of one year from the date of the denial, except on the grounds of newly
discovered evidence or proof of changed conditions found, upon inspection by
the Board, to be valid.
[Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.285 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose, in writing, specific conditions with
an affirmative decision pursuant to PA 110 of 2006. The breach of any such
condition shall be a violation of this chapter. [Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.286 BONDING.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals may require that a bond be furnished to insure
compliance with certain conditions imposed with the granting of any appeal or
variance.
§ 152.287 CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   The Zoning Administrator shall certify whether all conditions and other
requirements of the variance have been fulfilled, as a precondition to the
issuance of any permit required for development, construction, occupancy or use
within the area governed by the variance.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.295 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Deputy Administrator. Where the provisions of this chapter authorize
or direct the Zoning Administrator to perform any act or carry out any
function, such act or function may also be carried out by a deputy or deputies
designated by the Village Council.
   (B)   Basic duties. The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to grant
certificates of zoning compliance and to make inspections of premises necessary
to carry out his/her duties in the enforcement of this chapter, and to
otherwise carry out the duties assigned herein.
   (C)   Official Zoning Map. The Zoning Administrator or designee shall be
responsible for maintaining the Official Zoning Map.
   (D)   Violations. The Zoning Administrator shall order discontinuance of
illegal uses of land, buildings, or structures; removal of illegal buildings or
structures; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any
other action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with, or prevent
violations of its provisions.
§ 152.296 ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS, INITIATION.
   (A)   Time frame for application submittal. All applications for amendments
to the Zoning Ordinance shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least
30 days prior to the first consideration by the Village Planning Commission.
[Amended 3-10-2008]
   (B)   Initiation of amendments and application requirements. Requests for
amendments to the Zoning Ordinance may be initiated in writing by the owner of
the property requested for rezoning, or his/her authorized representative.
Requests may also be made by the Village Planning Commission or the Village
Council through official action of the Commission or Council taken at a public
meeting which has been properly noticed as required by law. In the case of an
amendment requested by a property owner or his/her authorized representative,
the request shall include the following:
      (1)   Completion of a zoning amendment application as provided by the
Zoning Administrator. Said application to include:
         (a)   The name and address of the person making the request and all
persons having a legal or equitable interest in any land which is requested to
be rezoned.
         (b)   In the case of a text amendment, the specific section to be
amended and the proposed text change.
         (c)   If the requested amendment requires a change in the zoning map,
the common address, legal description of the area requested for change, and
present and proposed district classifications shall be provided. The applicant
shall also indicate by map form, the location of the property requested for
rezoning.
         (d)   If, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, Planning
Commission, or Village Council, the information submitted does not provide a
clear delineation of the specific area to be rezoned, said Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission, or Village Council shall require the
applicant to submit a boundary survey of the property in question. Said survey
to include a written legal description and drawing of the area to be rezoned.
The boundary survey, including legal description and map, shall be completed by
a land surveyor registered by the State of Michigan.
         (e)   The nature of the amendment shall be fully identified in
writing.
         (f)   Payment of all fees as required by the Village of Fowler.
§ 152.297 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   After submission of the application and fee, amendments to this chapter
shall be processed as provided for in the Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110
of 2006. [Amended 3-10-2008]
§ 152.298 CONSIDERATION OF AMENDMENT.
   The following guidelines shall be used by the Planning Commission and
Village Council pursuant to consideration of amendments to the Zoning
Ordinance:
   (A)   Text amendment.
      (1)   The proposed text amendment would correct an error in the
ordinance.
      (2)   The proposed text amendment would clarify the intent of the
ordinance.
      (3)   The proposed text amendment would address changes to the state
legislation, recent case law or opinions from the Attorney General of the State
of Michigan.
      (4)   The proposed text amendment would promote compliance with changes
in other village ordinances and county, state or federal regulations.
      (5)   In the event the amendment will add a use to a district, said use
shall be fully consistent with the character of the range of uses provided for
within the district.
      (6)   The amendment shall not result in problems of incompatibility among
land uses within a zoning district, or among adjacent districts.
      (7)   The proposed text amendment is supported by the findings of
reports, studies, or other documentation on functional requirements,
contemporary building practices, environmental requirements and similar
technical items.
      (8)   As applicable, the proposed change shall be consistent with the
village's ability to provide adequate public facilities and services.
      (9)   The proposed change shall be consistent with the village's desire
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the community.
   (B)   Map amendment (rezoning).
      (1)   Consistency with the goals, policies and future land use map of the
Village of Fowler. If conditions have changed since the Master Plan was
adopted, the consistency with recent development trends in the area.
      (2)   Compatibility of the site's physical, geological, hydrological and
other environmental features with the uses permitted in the proposed zoning
district. The potential uses allowed in the proposed zoning district shall be
compatible with surrounding uses in terms of land suitability, impacts on the
community, density, potential influence on property values and traffic impacts.
      (3)   Capability of the existing or planned infrastructure including
streets, sanitary sewers, storm sewer, water, sidewalks, and street lighting to
sufficiently support those uses provided for within the proposed zoning
district classification.
      (4)   Existing village facilities and services including, but not limited
to, police and fire protection, recreational facilities, educational
facilities, and waste collection shall have sufficient capacity to support
those uses provided for within the proposed zoning district classification.
      (5)   The proposed change shall be governed by sufficient standards to
ensure that the potential for problems of incompatibility between the proposed
and adjoining districts shall be minimal.
      (6)   The requested rezoning will not create an isolated and unplanned
spot zone.
      (7)   The proposed change shall not endanger the public health, safety,
or welfare.
      (8)   Other factors deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission.
§ 152.299 CONSIDERATION OF AMENDMENT BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   Upon receipt of a report and summary of hearing comments from the Planning
Commission as provided for in the Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006,
the Village Council may hold an additional public hearing, if it considers it
necessary, or may proceed to adopt or amend the proposed amendment. If the
Village Council proposes to amend the amendment, then the procedures described
in the Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, shall be followed. [Amended
3-10-2008]
§ 152.300 ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMITS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise exempted by this chapter, the construction, erection,
alteration, expansion, moving, repair, or use of any land, building, or
structure shall require receipt of a zoning permit and issuance of a
certificate of zoning compliance. No building permit shall be issued for the
construction, erection, alteration, expansion, moving or repair of any building
or other structure until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued
therefor. Issuance of such a certificate shall indicate that the use and plans
for which the permit is requested comply with this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy
of any building, structure, or premises, or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use
as permitted under the terms of this chapter, until a certificate of zoning
compliance shall have been issued hereunder by the Zoning Administrator. The
certificate shall state that the building, structure, and lot and use thereof,
conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all certificates
of zoning compliance.
   (D)   Certificates of zoning compliance authorize only the use, arrangement
and construction set forth in the application and any appended plans, and no
other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and
is punishable as provided by law. Any change in approved plans shall occur as
provided for in this chapter and shall require the issuance of an amended
certificate of zoning compliance.
§ 152.301 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a site plan, special land use, planned
unit development, variance, or other such zoning action, the Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission, Village Council, or Zoning Board of
Appeals, as appropriate, may require a bond or other financial guarantee of
sufficient sum to assure the installation of those features or components of
the approved activity or construction which are considered necessary to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the public and of users or inhabitants of the
proposed development. Such features or components, hereafter referred to as
"improvements," may include but shall not be limited to roadways, curbs,
landscaping, fences, walls, screens, lighting, drainage facilities, sidewalks,
utilities and similar items.
   (B)   Performance guarantees shall be processed in the following manner:
      (1)   The applicant shall prepare an itemized cost estimate of the
required improvements, which shall then be reviewed and approved by the Zoning
Administrator. The amount of the performance guarantee shall be 100% of the
following costs:
         (a)   Purchase and/or construction of improvements.
         (b)   Installation of improvements.
         (c)   Architectural and/or engineering design or related professional
costs.
         (d)   Reasonable amount for contingencies, but in no case less than 5%
of total costs for divisions (B)(1)(a) through (c) above.
      (2)   The required performance guarantee shall be in the form of an
irrevocable bank letter of credit, surety bond, or other form of guarantee
acceptable to the party requiring said guarantee.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the required performance guarantee, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue a certificate of zoning compliance for the subject
development or activity.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator, upon the written request of the
applicant, shall rebate portions of the performance guarantee upon
determination that the improvements for which the rebate has been requested
have been satisfactorily completed. The portion of the performance guarantee to
be rebated shall be in the same amount as stated in the itemized cost estimate
for the applicable improvement.
      (5)   When all of the required improvements have been completed, the
applicant shall send written notice to the Zoning Administrator of completion
of said improvements. Thereupon, the Zoning Administrator shall inspect all of
the improvements and shall recommend to the Planning Commission, Village
Council, or Zoning Board of Appeals, as appropriate, approval, partial
approval, or rejection of the improvements with a statement of the reasons for
any rejections.
      (6)   The Planning Commission, Village Council, or Zoning Board of
Appeals, as appropriate, shall either approve, partially approve, or reject the
improvements. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of
the action of the Planning Commission, Village Council, or Zoning Board of
Appeals, as appropriate, within 30 days after the official action of said
Commission, Council, or Zoning Board of Appeals. Where partial approval is
granted, the applicant shall be released from liability pursuant to relevant
portions of the performance guarantee, except for that portion sufficient to
secure completion of the improvements not yet approved.
      (7)   A record of authorized performance guarantees shall be maintained
by the Zoning Administrator.
§ 152.302 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any building or structure moved, erected, razed, converted, or used
and any use of land or premises which is carried on in violation of this
chapter is declared to be a nuisance per se. All buildings, structures, and
land uses considered to be in violation of this chapter shall be reported to
the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   After an order to correct the violation has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator, the property owner (owner of the property upon which the
violation is located) shall have 30 days to correct the violation. If the
violation cannot be corrected within this time, the Zoning Administrator may,
with just cause, extend the correction period for an appropriate amount of time
up to a period of six months. The approved extension period shall be at the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator. In the event a longer period of time is
required:
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, upon petition, may grant up to six
additional months to correct the violation if conditions warrant such an
extended period of time. The six period shall commence at the end of the
extended period as approved by the Zoning Administrator (as referenced above).
      (2)   If the violation involves a special land use or planned unit
development, the request for the extended period of time shall be made to, and
approved by, the Village Council. Any violation not corrected within the
required time frame shall be reported to the Village Council.
   In all cases, a request for extending the period of time for correcting a
violation shall be made by the applicant. Said request shall be in writing to
the Zoning Administrator and shall include specific detail on why the violation
occurred, the requested time frame for correcting the violation, and actions to
be pursued by the land owner to ensure correction of the violation. The written
request shall be delivered to the Zoning Administrator no less than 21 days
prior to the expiration of the extended time frame as originally approved by
the Zoning Administrator.
   In the event the Zoning Administrator determines the violation poses an
imminent threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the occupants of the
premises on which the violation is located or to the general public, the Zoning
Administrator may require that immediate measures be taken to correct the
violation.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, or organization who violates, disobeys,
omits, or refuses to comply with any provisions of this chapter or lawful order
of the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, or
Village Council issued in pursuance of this chapter shall be responsible for a
civil infraction punishable by the sanctions as set forth below. Each day which
a violation continues, may be deemed a separate infraction.
   (D)   The sanction for any violation of this chapter which is a municipal
civil infraction shall be a civil fine as provided herein, plus any costs,
damages, expenses, and other sanctions authorized under Act 12 through 26,
Public Acts of Michigan of 1994.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator, the Building Inspector, together with law
enforcement officers, are authorized officials to issue municipal civil
infraction citations and municipal civil infraction violation notices for
violation of this chapter.
   (F)   A violation of this Zoning Ordinance shall be a municipal civil
infraction subject to a fine. Increased civil fines will be imposed for
repeated violations that occur within a six month period. Civil fines for first
offenses, repeat first offenses and repeat second offenses will be established
from time to time by the Village Council. The village shall also be entitled to
equitable relief to abate the violations and to such other relief as may be
available to the village pursuant to Chapters 83 and 87 of the Michigan Revised
Judicature Act, as amended at the present time or in the future.
§ 152.303 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   This chapter and the various subchapters, sections and clauses thereof, are
hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section,
clause or word is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining
portions or applications of this chapter which can be given effect without the
invalid portion or application, provided such remaining portions are not
determined by the court to be inoperable.
§ 152.304 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Where a provision of this chapter conflicts with a provision of another
ordinance, the strictest provision shall prevail.
§ 152.305 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall not impair or affect any act done, offense
committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or liability, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time this chapter takes effect,
but the same may be enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as
fully and to the same extent as if this chapter had not been adopted.
   (B)   Such proceedings may be consummated under and according to the
ordinance in force at the time such proceedings are or were commenced. All
prosecution, or other actions, pending at the effective date of this chapter,
or offenses or acts committed prior to the effective date of this chapter, may
be continued or instituted under and in accordance with provisions of the
ordinance in force at the time of such offense.
§ 152.306 REPEAL OF PREVIOUS ZONING ORDINANCE.
   This chapter, when effective, repeals Ordinance No. 20 of the Village of
Fowler Code of Ordinances, and all amendments, are now repealed.
§ 152.307 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is hereby adopted at a regular meeting of the Village Council
held on the 9th day of September 2002, and shall be effective September 22nd,
2002.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§ 152.315 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish regulations and conditions
for wind energy conversion systems which are applicable to all districts of
this chapter unless otherwise indicated. This subchapter is intended to provide
for the safe, effective, and efficient regulation of small and large wind
energy conversion systems whether they are tower mounted or structure mounted.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
§ 152.316 SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS).
   The following standards shall apply to all small WECS as defined herein.
   (A)   Small WECS are permitted by right, subject to conditions, in all
zoning districts regulated by the Village of Fowler Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   A zoning compliance certificate (division (O) of this section) and all
applicable permits required by the Building Official are required prior to
construction (installation) of a small WECS.
   (C)   For all zoning districts other than the C-2 Commercial and the I
Industrial Districts, the total height for a tower mounted small WECS, which
includes the tower and the rotor (blade), shall not be greater than 35 feet.
The total height for a tower mounted small WECS in the C-2 Commercial and I
Industrial Districts shall not be greater than 60 feet. The total height shall
be measured from the ground level at the base of the tower to the maximum
vertical extension of the blade.
   (D)   The total height for a structure mounted vertical axis small WECS
shall not exceed 15 feet as measured from the highest point of the adjacent
roof or structure to which it is attached, excluding chimneys, antennae or
other similar features.
   (E)   The minimum site area for a tower mounted small WECS shall be equal to
the minimum lot area requirements of the zoning district in which the small
WECS is located plus any additional lot area required to meet setback
requirements of this section.
   (F)   The minimum site area for a structure mounted small WECS shall be
equal to the minimal lot area requirements of the zoning district in which it
is located.
   (G)   For structure mounted small WECS, documentation shall be submitted by
a registered design professional, with details pertaining to the structure's
ability to sustain all loads imposed.
   (H)   Setbacks. A tower mounted small WECS shall be set back a distance
equal to one and one-half times the height of the tower measured from the top
of its blade in vertical position from all adjoining property lines, easements,
or rights-of-way, and no part of a small WECS may extend into any adjacent yard
or property unless an easement has been recorded for that purpose. A structure
mounted small WECS shall meet the setback requirements of the zoning district
in which it is located.
   (I)   Ground clearance. A tower mounted small WECS must have a minimum
ground clearance of 20 feet between the lowest extension of the rotor blade and
the average grade at the base of the structure.
   (J)   Noise. The sound pressure level shall not exceed 55 dB(A) measured at
the property line or the lease unit boundary, whichever is farther from the
source of the noise. This sound pressure level shall not be exceeded for more
than three minutes in any hour of the day. If the ambient sound pressure level
exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard shall be ambient dB(A) plus 5 dB(A).
   (K)   Wind turbine structural plans. A building permit application for a
small WECS shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the wind turbine
structure, including the tower, base, and footings. If structure-mounted, an
engineering analysis demonstrating compliance with the State Building Code and
certified by a licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted.
   (L)   WECS removal. The WECS owner shall advise the village of
discontinuance of WECS use or abandonment within 60 days of such discontinuance
or abandonment. Any WECS that is not operated for a continuous period of 12
months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of such WECS shall remove
the same within 90 days of receipt of notice from the village notifying the
owner of such abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned WECS within said 90
days shall be grounds for the village to remove the WECS at the owner's
expense.
   (M)   Structure mounted small WECS shall meet the following additional
requirements: shall not be attached to that portion of a structure facing a
public road, may be attached to principal or accessory structures providing all
other requirements of this section are met, shall not utilize guy wire
supports, and may not contain commercial advertising.
   (N)   There may be more than one tower and/or structures mounted small WECS
systems per lot or parcel if the total combined rated output of all turbines on
the site does not exceed ten kW and the additional units are permitted by
special land use approval.
   (O)   The zoning compliance certificate permit application for any small
WECS must include:
      (1)   A project summary, including: (1) a general description of the
project, including its approximate name plate capacity, the potential equipment
manufacturer(s), type(s), of the WECS(s), number of WECS(s) and capacity of
WECS, the maximum height and diameter of the WECS rotors, a professional
analysis of the shadow flicker impact, the general location of the project; (2)
a description of the applicant, owner and operator, including their respective
business entities.
      (2)   The name(s), address(s) and phone number(s) of the applicant(s) and
property owner(s).
      (3)   A description for the location of the WECS tower and/or structure
mounted system and the location of property lines of adjoining property owners.
      (4)   A site plan for the installation of the WECS, showing location of
each WECS tower, primary structures, property lines, setback lines, height,
ancillary equipment and layout of all structures within geographical boundaries
of any applicable setbacks.
      (5)   All required studies, reports, certifications and approvals
demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Any other information required to demonstrate compliance with this
chapter or any other ordinance or law of the village, county, state, or federal
government.
   (P)   Small WECS system shall not utilize guy wires for support, shall not
contain or display commercial advertising, and shall utilize non-reflective
surfaces and neutral colors to the maximum extent feasible.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
§ 152.317 LARGE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS).
   The following standards shall apply to all large wind energy conversion
systems (WECS) as defined herein.
   (A)   Large WECS require a special land use permit, a zoning compliance
certificate, and a building permit prior to construction/installation and
operation.
   (B)   Large WECS are permitted by special land use only in the C-
2 Commercial and I Industrial Zoning Districts.
   (C)   The application for a special land use permit must be accompanied by:
      (1)   An evaluation prepared by certified professionals of the likely
impact of the proposed WECS in the following areas:
         (a)   Noise and vibration impacts at any property line.
         (b)   Potential impact on wildlife, including native and migrating
birds.
         (c)   Shadow flicker and glare impacts on adjacent properties.
         (d)   Aesthetic impact of the WECS on adjoining properties.
      (2)   The following information must be detailed to supplement the site
plan required for a special use permit application:
         (a)   Property lines, dimension, acreage and contours with appropriate
intervals for site evaluation.
         (b)   Location and elevation of the proposed large WECS.
         (c)   Locations and dimensions of all existing structures and uses on
the lot within 300 feet of the system.
         (d)   Height of any structures or trees over 35 feet within a 500 foot
radius, on-site or off-site of the proposed large WECS.
         (e)   Surrounding land use and structures, irrespective of height,
within 500 feet of the large WECS location.
      (3)   Additional information required:
         (a)   Standard drawings of the structural components of the large
WECS, including structures, tower, base and footings. A registered engineer
shall certify drawings and any necessary calculations demonstrating that the
system complies with all applicable local, state and federal building,
structural and electrical codes.
         (b)   Certification from a registered engineer or qualified person
that the rotor and overspeed control have been designed for the proposed use on
the proposed site.
         (c)   Registered engineer's certification of the design and safety for
the proposed tower to withstand any high wind speeds, and that the large WECS
can be operated successfully on the subject property.
   (D)   Setbacks. A large WECS shall maintain a minimum setback of one and
one-half times the total height of the tower to the top of the blade in its
vertical position from any property line, easements, or rights-of-way, and no
part of a large WECS may extend into any adjacent yard or property unless an
easement has been recorded for that purpose.
   (E)   Dimensions.
      (1)   A large WECS shall not exceed a total tower and blade height of 100
feet.
      (2)   In all cases, the minimum height of the lowest position of the
large WECS blade shall be at least 30 feet above the ground.
      (3)   An approved large WECS is exempt from the height restrictions of
the zoning district in which it is located.
      (4)   A large WECS shall be located on a minimum site area of one acre or
larger plus any additional area required to meet the setback requirements of
this section.
   (F)   Noise. On-site use wind energy systems shall not exceed 55 dB(A) at
the property line closest to the wind energy system. This sound pressure level
may be exceeded during short term events such as utility outages and/or severe
wind storms. If the ambient sound pressure level exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard
shall be ambient dB(A) plus 5 dB(A).
   (G)   General siting and design standards. A large WECS shall meet all
federal, state and local aviation requirements, which shall include, but not be
limited to, air traffic warning lights or other marking lights, and shall be
positioned to avoid undue visual impact on neighboring properties.
   (H)   Safety measures.
      (1)   Each large WECS shall be equipped with both manual and automatic
controls to limit the rotation or speed of the rotor blade so it does not
exceed the design limits of the rotor.
      (2)   Each large WECS shall be properly grounded to safely sustain
natural lightning strikes.
      (3)   A large WECS shall not include any sign or advertising of any kind,
except for an informational sign no larger than two square feet in area posted
at the base of the tower, which shall contain the following information:
         (a)   "WARNING: HIGH VOLTAGE";
         (b)   Manufacturer's name;
         (c)   Operator's name;
         (d)   Emergency telephone number;
         (e)   Emergency shutdown procedures.
   (I)   Radio and television interference. A large WECS shall be designed and
constructed so as not to cause radio and television interference.
   (J)   Removal of a large WECS. The WECS owner shall advise the village of
discontinuance of WECS use or abandonment within 60 days of discontinuance. Any
WECS that is not operated for a continuous period of 12 months shall be
considered abandoned and the owner of such WECS shall remove the same within 90
days of receipt of notice from the village notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned WECS within said 90 days shall be
grounds for the village to remove the WECS at the owner's expense. The village
may, as a condition of special use permit approval, require a financial
guarantee in the form of a performance bond, cash deposit or irrevocable letter
of credit to provide sufficient funds for the removal of an abandoned WECS and
facilities associated therewith.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
§ 152.318 UTILITY SCALE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   Utility scale wind energy systems are not permitted by the Village of Fowler
Zoning Ordinance.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
§ 152.319 WIND ENERGY MONITORING STATION.
   A wind energy monitoring station is permitted by right in all zoning
districts, shall not exceed the maximum height permitted for any potential WECS
permitted in that zoning district, shall require a building permit if required
by the building official, and shall be removed within 14 months from the
installation date.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
§ 152.320 CONSTRUCTION CODES, TOWERS, INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS.
   Small and large WECS shall comply with all applicable state construction and
electrical codes and local building permit requirements. WECS shall comply with
Federal Aviation Administration requirements, the Michigan Airport Zoning Act,
and the Michigan Tall Structures Act.
[Amended 3-14-2011]
ZONING CODE PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section  Code Section
15.261 et seq.    152.282
125.1501 et seq.  152.246
128.111 et seq.   152.215
325.1001 et seq.  152.032
333.1101 et seq.  152.215
333.12701 et seq. 152.032
333.26423(a)      152.029
333.7106          152.029
559.101 et seq.   152.019
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
                        152.051,
                        152.069,
                        152.117,
                        152.131,
                        152.212,
                        152.281,
—      3-10-2008      152.282,
                        152.283,
                        152.284,
                        152.285,
                        152.296,
                        152.297,
                        152.299
                        152.022,
                        152.032,
—      8-11-2008      152.071,
                        152.142,
                        152.143,
                        152.153
                        152.020,
                        152.034,
                        152.036,
—      3-14-2011      152.038,
                        152.051,
                        152.062,
                        152.315 -
                        152.320
—      10-10-2011     152.267
                        152.069,
—      12-9-2013      152.142,
                        152.247,
                        152.249
—      10-13-2014     152.256
—      11-2-2014      152.069,
                        152.161
—      4-17-2017      152.063,
                        152.249
         12-11-2017     152.051
 
 
CHAPTER 153: VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
153.01   Planning commission created
   
153.02   Officers; meetings; quorum; rules
   
153.03   Employees; contracts; expenses
   
153.04   Adoption of master plan
   
153.05   Procedures for adoption of master plan
   
153.06   Submission of proposed plan to Village Council
   
153.07    Public hearing; submission of plan to Village Council; final adoption
   
153.08   Plan amendment or adoption of new plan
   
153.09   Zoning
   
153.10   Recommendation to Village Council
§ 153.01 PLANNING COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   In accordance with Act No. 285 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1931, as
amended (M.C.L.A. §§125.31 et seq.), a Village Planning Commission consisting
of five members is hereby established. All of the members shall be residents of
the village, and shall insofar as possible, represent different trades,
occupations, and professions, four of whom shall not hold any other municipal
office. One member shall be a member of the Village Council, ex officio,
selected by the Council.
   (B)   The Village President shall appoint four members of the Commission,
subject to the approval of Village Council by majority vote. The terms of such
members shall commence on May 1 and shall be for three years, except that one
member of the first Planning Commission to be appointed shall serve for a term
of one year, two for a term of two years and two for a term of three years. The
Council member shall be selected by resolution of the Council and shall serve
for a term of one year, but the term shall not exceed the member's term of
office as a member of the Council.
   (C)   All members of the Commission shall have full voting rights. All
members shall hold office until their successors take office. Members of the
Commission other than the member selected by the Council may, after a public
hearing, be removed by the President for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance in office. The Council may, for like cause, remove the member
selected by the Council. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of term shall be filled for the remainder of the term, by the
President in the case of a member appointed by the President and by the Council
in the case of the member appointed by the Council.
   (D)   Members of the Planning Commission shall be compensated at a rate
determined by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.02 OFFICERS; MEETINGS; QUORUM; RULES.
   (A)   Chairperson and vice-chairperson. The Planning Commission, at its
first meeting, shall elect a chairperson from among the appointed members, and
may elect a vice-chairperson, each of whom shall hold office for one year, with
eligibility for re-election.
   (B)   Secretary. The Planning Commission shall appoint or hire a secretary
who need not be a member of the Planning Commission. The Secretary shall keep
an accurate record of all resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations, which record shall be a public record. The Planning Commission
shall annually file a report with the Village President and Council.
   (C)   Meeting; quorum. Four members of the Planning Commission shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Planning Commission
shall make and adopt rules for the transaction of business consistent with the
laws of this state, and with village ordinances. The Planning Commission shall
hold at least one regular meeting in each month, at such time and place as may
be fixed by the Commission. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson
or by three members by written notice served upon each member of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.03 EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS; EXPENSES.
   The Planning Commission may appoint such employees and contract for
consulting advice on municipal problems as it may deem necessary for its work.
Expense for such services and any other expenses as the Commission may lawfully
incur, including the necessary expenditures incurred by its members in the
performance of their duties as members of the Planning Commission, shall be
paid for with the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Village Council,
which shall provide the funds, equipment and accommodations necessary for the
Planning Commission's work.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.04 ADOPTION OF MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make and approve a master plan for the
physical development of the village, including any areas outside of its
boundaries which, in the Commission's judgment, bear relation to the planning
of the village. The Planning Commission may meet with other governmental
planning commissions to deliberate.
   (B)   The municipal plan shall address land use issues and may project 20
years or more into the future. The plan shall include maps, plats, charts, and
descriptive, explanatory, and other related matter and shall show the Planning
Commission's recommendations for the physical development of the village. The
plan shall also include those of the following subjects which reasonably can be
considered as pertinent to the future development of the village:
      (1)   A land use plan and program, in part consisting of a classification
and allocation of land for agriculture, residences, commerce, industry,
recreation, ways and grounds, public buildings, schools, soil conservation,
forest, woodlots, open space, wildlife refuges, and other uses and purposes.
      (2)   The general location, character, and extent of streets, railroads,
airports, bicycle paths, pedestrian ways, bridges, waterways, and water front
developments; flood prevention works, drainage, sanitary sewers and water
supply systems, works for preventing pollution, and works for maintaining water
levels; and public utilities and structures.
      (3)   Recommendations as to the general character, extent, and layout for
the redevelopment or rehabilitation of blighted areas; and the removal,
relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, or changes or use or
extension of ways, grounds, open spaces, buildings, utilities, or other
facilities.
      (4)   A zoning plan for the control of the height, area, bulk, location,
and use of buildings and premises.
      (5)   Recommendations for implementing any of its proposals.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.05 PROCEDURES FOR ADOPTION OF MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   Before preparing a plan the Planning Commission shall mail by first-
class mail a notice, explaining that the Planning Commission intends to prepare
a plan and requesting the recipient's cooperation and comment, to all of the
following:
      (1)   The planning commission, or if there is no planning commission, the
legislative body, of each township or other municipality contiguous to the
village.
      (2)   The Clinton County Planning Commission.
      (3)   Each public utility company and railroad company owning or
operating a public utility or railroad within the village, and any government
entity, that registers its name and mailing address for this purpose with the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   The notice to an entity under divisions (1) and (2) may request
permission for the village to submit electronically any information required to
be submitted to that entity under Sections 7b or 8 of Act No. 285 of Michigan
Public Acts of 1931. If the entity to which the notice is sent grants this
permission, information submitted to or by that entity under Section 7b or 8
may be submitted electronically. Otherwise, such information shall be submitted
in writing by first-class mail or personal delivery.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.06 SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED PLAN TO VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   A municipal plan may be adopted as a whole or by successive parts
corresponding with major geographical areas of the village or with functional
subject matter areas of the plan.
   (B)   After preparing a proposed plan, the Planning Commission shall submit
the proposed plan to the Village Council for review and comment. The process of
adopting a plan shall not proceed further unless the Council approves the
distribution of the proposed plan.
   (C)   If the Council approves the distribution of the proposed plan, it
shall notify the Secretary of the Planning Commission and the Secretary shall
submit a copy of the proposed plan, for review and comment, to all of the
following:
      (1)   The planning commission and the legislative body, of each
municipality located within or contiguous to the municipality.
      (2)   The Clinton County Planning Commission. The Secretary of the
Village Planning Commission shall concurrently submit to the County Planning
Commission a statement, signed by the Secretary, that the requirements of
division (1) have been met. The statement shall include the name and address of
each planning commission or legislative body to which a copy of the proposed
plan was submitted and the date of submission.
      (3)   Each public utility company and railroad company owning or
operating a public utility or railroad within the village, and any government
entity that registers its name and address for this purpose with the Secretary
of the Planning Commission. An entity that, pursuant to this division, receives
a copy of a proposed plan, or of a plan as provided in §
153.07(E) shall reimburse the village for any copying and postage costs thereby
incurred by the village.
   (D)   An entity described in division (C)(1), (2), or (3) may submit
comments on the proposed plan to the Planning Commission within 65 days after
the proposed plan was submitted to that entity under division (C). A planning
commission or legislative body described in division (C)(1) shall concurrently
submit a copy of the comments to the Clinton County Planning Commission.
   (E)   Not less than 75 days or more than 95 days after the date the proposed
plan was submitted to the County Planning Commission under division (C), the
County Planning Commission shall submit to the Village Planning Commission its
comments on the proposed plan. The comments shall include, but need not be
limited to, both of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A statement whether the County Planning Commission after
considering any comments received under division (D) considers the proposed
plan to be inconsistent with the plan of any city, village, township, or region
described in division (C)(1).
      (2)   A statement whether the County Planning Commission considers the
proposed plan to be inconsistent with the county plan.
   (F)   The statements provided for in division (E)(1) and (2) are advisory
only.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.07 PUBLIC HEARING; SUBMISSION OF PLAN TO VILLAGE COUNCIL; FINAL ADOPTION.
   (A)   Before approving a proposed municipal plan, the Village Planning
Commission shall hold not less than one public hearing on the proposed plan.
The hearing shall be held after the expiration of the deadline for comment
under §
153.06. The Commission shall give notice of the time and place of the public
hearing not less than 15 days before the hearing by one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village and in the official gazette, if
any, of the village. The Planning Commission shall also submit notice to each
entity described in §
153.05(A).
   (B)   The approval of the plan shall be by resolution of the Planning
Commission carried by the affirmative votes of not less than two-thirds of the
members of the Planning Commission. The resolution shall refer expressly to the
maps and descriptive and other matter intended by the Planning Commission to
form the whole or part of the plan, and the action taken shall be recorded on
the map and plan and descriptive matter and signed by the chairperson or the
secretary of the Planning Commission. Following approval of the proposed plan
by the Planning Commission, the secretary shall submit a copy of the proposed
plan to the Village Council.
   (C)   Approval of the plan by the Planning Commission under division (B) is
the final step for adoption of the plan, unless the Village Council by
resolution has asserted the right to approve or reject the plan. In that case,
after approval of the plan by the Planning Commission, the Council shall
approve or reject the plan.
   (D)   If the Council rejects the proposed plan, the Council shall submit to
the Planning Commission a statement of its objections to the proposed plan. The
Planning Commission shall consider the Council's objections. The procedures
provided in divisions (A) through (C) and this division shall be repeated until
a proposed plan is approved by the Council.
   (E)   Upon final adoption of the plan, copies of the adopted plan shall be
submitted in the same manner as provided for submitting copies of the proposed
plan under §
153.06(C).
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.08 PLAN AMENDMENT OR ADOPTION OF NEW PLAN.
   (A)   An extension, addition, revision, or other amendment to the municipal
plan shall be adopted under the same procedure as a plan or a successive part
of a plan under §§
153.05,
153.06 and
153.07. However, for an amendment other than a revision of the plan, both of
the following apply:
      (1)   The 65-day period otherwise provided for in §
153.06(D) shall be 40 days.
      (2)   The 75- to 95-day period otherwise provided for in §
153.06(E) shall be 55 to 75 days.
   (B)   At least every five years after adoption of the plan, the Planning
Commission shall review the plan and determine whether to commence the
procedure to amend the plan or adopt a new plan.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.09 ZONING.
   The Planning Commission shall perform such duties and serve in the
capacities prescribed in the zoning ordinance. It shall be the function of the
Planning Commission to recommend to the Village Council appropriate regulations
and the boundaries of district or zones, in accordance with Act No. 207 of the
Public Acts of Michigan of 1921 (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 et seq.) as amended, which
will be designed to limit the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue congestion
of population, to facilitate adequate provision for a system of transportation,
sewage disposal, water, education, recreation and other public requirements,
and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare. Amendments or
supplements to the zoning ordinance and maps adopted by the Village Council,
may be made only after a report has been made thereon by the Planning
Commission to the Village Council.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
§ 153.10 RECOMMENDATION TO VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The Planning Commission may make recommendations to the Village Council, to
public officials (including the Zoning Board of Appeals) and to citizens
regarding all matters relating to the planning and development of the village
and the surrounding area. The Planning Commission may make studies, hold
hearings and prepare reports and recommendations on its own initiative or at
the request of the Village Council.
(Ord. 42, passed 4-14-03)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   BONDS
   
II.   FRANCHISES
   
III.   VACATED PROPERTY
   
IV.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
   
V.   REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Providing for acquiring improvements and replacements for
21       5-22-78     the water supply system of the village and providing for
                     the issuance of revenue bonds to pay part of the cost
                     thereof.
                     Repealing Ordinance No. 21 so as to provide for the
28       2-13-89     retiring of certain water supply system bonds and
                     providing for the issuance of revenue bonds to pay the
                     cost thereof.
–      - -94       Bonds related to village streets
                     Amending Ordinance No. 21 to provide for water and sewer
21A      8-12-96     service to any two-family dwelling, apartment, or
                     multiple-family dwellings located within the village
                     limits.
                     Amending Ordinance No. 28 to provide for water and sewer
28A      2-10-97     rates and charges to any two-family dwelling, apartment,
                     or multiple-family dwellings located within the village
                     limits.
                     Authorizing the construction of improvements to the
37       6-9-97      existing sanitary sewage lagoon treatment system in the
                     village and providing for the issuance of revenue bonds to
                     pay part of the cost thereof.
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a non-exclusive franchise to Consumers Power
                     Company, its successors and assigns, for the right, power
                     and authority to lay, maintain and operate gas mains,
32       10-11-93    pipes and services on, along, across and under the
                     highways, streets, alleys, bridges and other public
                     places, and to do a local gas business in the village for
                     a period of 30 years.
                     Granting to Consumers Energy Company, its successors and
                     assigns, the right, power and authority to construct,
                     maintain and commercially use electric lines consisting of
                     towers, masts, poles, crossarms, guys, braces, feeders,
51       9-14-09     transmission and distribution wires, transformers and
                     other electrical appliances on, under, along and across
                     the highways, street, alleys, bridges, waterways, and
                     other public places, and to do a local electric business
                     in the village for a period of 30 years.
 
TABLE III: VACATED PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating the alley of Block 19 according to the original
                     plat of the village, lying eight feet north and south
34       11-27-95    running east on either side of a line commencing eight
                     feet south of the southwest corner of Lot 10 thence
                     easterly to a point eight feet south of the southeast
                     corner of Lot 1.
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            Rezoning the following parcel of land from the “O-C” Outer Commercial District to
20-1 11-14- the “I” Industrial District: commencing at NW corner of east ½ of NW ¼, Section
     83     13, T7N, R4W, thence east 150 feet, south 150 feet, west 150 feet, north 150 feet
            to the beginning.
 
TABLE V: REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     11-14- The sale by the village of its parcels of real property described as
53   11     Lots 5, 6, 7, and 8, Block 1, Lance’s Addition, to the Township of
            Dallas, Clinton County, Michigan.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section  Code Section
15.231            111.16
15.231 - 15.246   111.03
54.211            151.27
61.1 et seq.      Ch. 10
62.1              32.01
66.2(5)           10.99
67.26             30.06
125.31 et seq.    153.01
125.581 et seq.   153.09
125.45            151.09
125.1508          150.01
141.101 et seq.   50.04,
                  50.15
141.103 et seq.   50.04
141.103           50.15
                  50.03,
141.121           50.04,
                  50.15
215.246           111.16
257.252a et seq.  92.02
257.951 - 257.954 70.01
484.2102          111.02
484.2251          111.03,
                  111.04
                  Ch. 151,
                  151.01,
560.101 et seq.   151.18,
                  151.37,
                  151.55
560.267           151.58
600.113           130.01
600.3801 et seq.  91.03
722.751 et seq.   130.01
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1        9-14-81     10.13
2        9-14-81     70.02
5        9-14-81     130.02
6        9-14-81     90.01 -
                     90.08
6A       1-5-96      90.04 -
                     90.08
8        9-14-81     92.02
9        9-14-81     91.03
10       9-14-81     70.03
12       9-14-81     110.01 -
                     110.03
13       9-14-81     70.01
14       9-14-81     93.01
15       9-14-81     93.02
17       9-14-81     50.16 -
                     50.25
19       9-14-81     50.15
19A      3-9-98      50.15
20-1     11-14-83    T.S.O. IV
21       5-22-78     T.S.O. I
21A      8-12-96     T.S.O. I
22       9-14-81     50.02
23       9-14-81     150.01
24       9-14-81     92.01
27       2-11-85     91.01
28       2-13-89     T.S.O. I
28A      2-10-97     T.S.O. I
32       10-11-93    T.S.O. II
33       12-12-93    130.01
34       11-27-95    T.S.O. III
– -    -94         T.S.O. I
35       7-21-97     93.02
36       7-21-97     50.01
37       6-9-97      T.S.O. I
38       10-8-00     30.01 -
                     30.23
39       10-8-01     Adopting Ordinance
                     111.01 -
41       11-8-02     111.18,
                     111.99
42       4-14-03     153.01 -
                     153.10
43       4-14-03     91.15 -
                     91.21
44       5-12-03     31.01
45       9-8-03      91.02,
                     91.04
                     50.35 -
46       9-8-03      50.45,
                     50.99
47       9-8-03      92.03
                     31.10 -
48       9-8-03      31.20,
                     31.99
                     151.01 -
49       3-14-05     151.28,
                     151.99
                     112.01 -
--       7-11-05     112.11,
                     112.99
--       8-8-05      32.01,
                     32.02
50       9-11-06     91.05
--       3-12-07     50.04
--       3-12-07     151.29
51       9-14-09     T.S.O. II
--       10-10-11    90.02
--       6-13-11     93.02
53       11-14-11    T.S.O. V
--       5-5-14      151.16
--       10-26-14    110.02
                    
 
