CITY OF FREMONT, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. O-23-08, passed 12-4-23
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor - James Rynberg
Mayor Pro Tem - Sandra Siegel
City Council
Robert Johnson
Lola Harmon-Ramsey
Eric Johnson
City Manager/Finance Director - Todd Blake
Clerk - Vicci TerVeer
Treasurer - Joyce Winchel
Fire Chief - Brian Hettinger
Police Chief - Timothy Rodwell
Assessor - Seth Lattimore
Zoning/Economic Development -
Andy Harrington
Supervisor of Public Works - Brian Hettinger
 
ADOPTION OF CODE
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A REVISION AND CODIFICATION OF THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY
OF FREMONT ENTITLED "THE CODE OF THE CITY OF FREMONT, MICHIGAN,"; AND TO
PROVIDE A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE PROVISIONS THEREOF.
THE CITY OF FREMONT ORDAINS: -
   Section 1. The City Council hereby adopts a municipal code for the City of
Fremont entitled "The Code of the City of Fremont, Michigan,", pursuant to the
authority granted by Act No. 46 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1960, containing
ordinances of a general and permanent nature, as complied, consolidated,
codified and indexed in Chapters 1 to 22, both inclusive, of which code, at
least three complete copies have been and are now filed in the office of the
City Clerk, and shall there remain for public use and inspection.
   Section 2. The provisions of such code shall be in force on and after
November 1, 1974, and all ordinances of a general and permanent nature adopted
on final reading and passage on or before June 5, 1973, and not contained in
such code are hereby repealed from and after November 1, 1974, except as
hereinafter provided.
   Section 3. The repeal provided for in the preceding section of this
Ordinance shall not affect any offense or act committed or done or any penalty
or forfeiture incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before
November 1, 1974; nor shall it affect any prosecution, suit or proceeding
pending or any judgment rendered prior to November 1, 1974; nor shall such
repeal affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the City or authorizing the issue of any bonds of the City or any
evidence of the City's indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by
the City; nor shall it affect the annual tax levy; nor shall it affect any
right or franchise conferred by ordinance or resolution of the City on any
person or corporation; nor shall it affect any ordinance adopted for purposes
which have been consummated; nor shall it affect any ordinance which is
temporary, although general in effect, or special, although permanent in
effect; nor shall it affect any ordinance relating to the salaries of the City
officers or employees; nor shall it affect any ordinance annexing territory to
the City; nor shall it affect any ordinance naming, renaming, opening,
accepting or vacating streets or alleys in the City; nor shall it affect any
ordinance relating to the zoning map; nor shall it affect any ordinance adopted
on final reading and passage after June 5, 1973; nor shall it affect any of the
following ordinances or amendments thereto: Those ordinances relating to the
regulation and licensing of taxicabs dated February 9, 1948; November 8, 1954;
February 13, 1956; and September 15, 1952.
   Section 4. Whenever in the Code adopted by this ordinance or in any other
ordinance or resolution of the City or in any rule, regulation or order
promulgated by any officer or agency of the City under authority duly vested in
him or it any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to
do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
such Code or any other ordinance or resolution of the City or such rule,
regulation or order shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding ninety days or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   Except where otherwise provided, every day any violation of such Code or any
other ordinance or resolution of the City or such rule, regulation or order
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   Section 5. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council
that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this ordinance
and the Code hereby adopted are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence,
paragraph or section of this ordinance or the Code hereby adopted shall be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree
of a court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs
and sections of this ordinance or the Code hereby adopted.
   Councilmember Silverwood moved the adoption of the foregoing ordinance which
was supported by Councilmember DeJong, and thereupon unanimously adopted by the
City Council of the City of Fremont at a regular. meeting thereof held
September 24, 1974.
                        /s/ Fred W. Billerbeck
                           Mayor
                        /s/ Fred Dawe, Jr.
                           Clerk
PART I.
THE CHARTER
Editor's note. – The Charter contained in this part was passed by the electors
of the City of Fremont, Michigan on April 3, 1972. The effective date of this
Charter was April 17, 1972. A uniform system of capitalization has been
utilized, obvious misspellings have been corrected and catchlines and
subcatchlines have been modified in some cases to make them more accurate and
to facilitate editorial and indexing requirements. Otherwise no changes have
been made. Amendments to the Charter are indicated by historical citations
following the amended section.
Preamble.
Chapter I.
Names and Boundaries.
§ 1.1   Name.
§ 1.2   Boundaries.
§ 1.3   Wards.
Chapter II. Municipal Powers.
§ 2.1   General powers.
§ 2.2   Specific powers.
§ 2.3   Intergovernmental contracts.
Chapter III. Elections.
§ 3.1   Qualifications of electors.
§ 3.2   Procedure.
§ 3.3   Precincts.
§ 3.4   Date of regular city elections.
§ 3.5   Date of special elections.
§ 3.6   Notice.
§ 3.7   Voting hours.
§ 3.8   Nominations -- Generally.
§ 3.9   Same -- Form of petition.
§ 3.10   Same -- Approval of petition.
§ 3.11   Same -- Candidate to run for only one office.
§ 3.12   Same -- Withdrawal of candidate.
§ 3.13   Same -- Public inspection of petitions.
§ 3.14   Election commission created; composition; duties; compensation.
§ 3.15   Form of ballot.
§ 3.16   Board of canvassers.
§ 3.17   Custody and safekeeping of registration books and supplies
§ 3.18   Absentee ballots.
§ 3.19   Determination of election ending in tie vote.
§ 3.20   Recount.
§ 3.21   Purity of election; lawful and unlawful acts.
Chapter IV. Organization of Government.
§ 4.1   Form.
§ 4.2   City council composition and power.
§ 4.3   Qualifications of council members.
§ 4.4   Election and terms of office of mayor and councilmen.
§ 4.5   Compensation of mayor and councilmen; reimbursement of expenses.
§ 4.6   Organizational meeting of council; selection of mayor pro tem.
§ 4.7   Powers and duties of mayor; mayor pro tem.
§ 4.8   Council's dealings with administration services; council's ordering of
subordinates of city manager.
Chapter V. General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel.
§ 5.1   Eligibility for office.
§ 5.2   Financial interest of officer in contract with city; officer standing
as surety or giving bail required by Charter or city ordinance.
§ 5.3   Holding of appointive office or employment by relative of elective or
appointive officer.
§ 5.4   Oath of office and bond required.
§ 5.5   Surety bonds.
§ 5.6   Delivery of effects of office to successor or superior when officer or
employee ceases to hold the office.
§ 5.7   Declaration of vacancy in elective office.
§ 5.8   Declaration of vacancy in boards or commissions.
§ 5.9   Removal from office.
§ 5.10   Resignations of elective and appointive officers.
§ 5.11   Filling vacancy in council.
§ 5.12   Filling vacancies in offices.
§ 5.13   Changes in term of office or compensation.
§ 5.14   Compensation of employees not provided for by Charter; bona fide
expenses incurred in service of city.
§ 5.15   Group insurance for officers and employees.
§ 5.16   Employees retirement system.
§ 5.17   Merit system for employees.
Chapter VI. Council: Procedures, Powers and Duties.
§ 6.1   Regular meetings.
§ 6.2   Special meetings.
§ 6.3   Business of special meetings.
§ 6.4   Meetings to be public.
§ 6.5   Quorum.
§ 6.6   Attendance; conduct; sergeant-at-arms.
§ 6.7   Organization, rules and order of business.
§ 6.8   Investigation into conduct of office, employee, etc.; power to summon
and compel attendance of witnesses and production of evidence.
§ 6.9   Public peace, health and safety; composition and powers of board of
health.
Chapter VII. Administrative Services.
§ 7.1   Administrative officers generally.
§ 7.2   City manager -- Appointment; removal; compensation.
§ 7.3   Same -- Functions and duties.
§ 7.4   Clerk.
§ 7.5   Treasurer.
§ 7.6   Assessor.
§ 7.7   Attorney.
§ 7.8   City planning commission; zoning.
§ 7.9   Advisory boards or committees.
Chapter VIII. Legislation.
§ 8.1   Prior legislation.
§ 8.2   Ordinances and resolutions generally.
§ 8.3   Ordinances -- Identification; repeal; amendment; record; Code.
§ 8.4   Same -- Publication; effective date; adoption by reference.
§ 8.5   Penalties.
§ 8.6   Initiatory and referendary petitions -- Generally.
§ 8.7   Same -- Contents; signatures; affidavit of petitioner; verification.
§ 8.8   Same -- Action by council upon receipt.
§ 8.9   Same -- Submission to electors.
§ 8.10   Same -- Suspension of operation of ordinance in referendum; amendment
or repeal; adoption of conflicting ordinances at the same election.
§ 8.11   Recall.
Chapter IX. Finances and Budgets.
§ 9.1   Fiscal year.
§ 9.2   Budget -- Recommended budget.
§ 9.3   Same -- Public hearing.
§ 9.4   Same --Adoption.
§ 9.5   Same -- Capital improvement bonds.
§ 9.6   Same -- Appropriations; charging of expenditures; interim accounting;
end of year surplus.
§ 9.7   Depository.
§ 9.8   Investments.
§ 9.9   Independent audit and report.
§ 9.10   Withdrawal of funds.
Chapter X. Taxation.
§ 10.1   Power of city; maximum ad valorem levy; procedure for levy and
collection.
§ 10.2   Tax status day.
§ 10.3   Assessment roll.
§ 10.4   Board of review -- Composition; secretary; chairman; quorum.
§ 10.5   Same -- Functions and duties.
§ 10.6   Same -- Notice of meeting.
§ 10.7   Same -- Meetings; examination of persons appearing.
§ 10.8   Assessment of taxes.
§ 10.9   Warrant commanding collection by treasurer.
§ 10.10   Liens.
§ 10.11   Statement to taxpayer.
§ 10.12   Collection of city taxes.
§ 10.13   State, county and school taxes.
§ 10.14   Failure to pay personal property taxes.
§ 10.15   Acceleration of due date for personal property taxes.
§ 10.16   Failure to pay real estate taxes.
§ 10.17   Inequitable assessment or tax.
   Chapter XI. Special Assessments.
§ 11.1   Power of council to assess.
§ 11.2   Procedure ordinance.
§ 11.3   Assessment lien.
§ 11.4   Contest of assessment.
   Chapter XII. Borrowing.
§ 12.1   General power.
§ 12.2   Limitation.
§ 12.3   Use of borrowed funds.
§ 12.4   Separation of special assessment collections; payment of deficiency in
special assessment fund.
§ 12.5   Bond interest rates.
§ 12.6   Execution of bonds.
§ 12.7   Records of bonds and other evidence of indebtedness; cancellation.
   Chapter XIII. Contracts and Purchases.
§ 13.1   Establishment of procedures by ordinance; city manager responsible for
purchases; authority; competitive prices.
§ 13.2   Funds to finance public improvements.
§ 13.3   Installment contracts.
   Chapter XIV. Utilities, Franchises and Permits.
§ 14.1   General powers.
§ 14.2   Administration of municipally owned and operated utilities.
§ 14.3   Utility rates.
§ 14.4   Ordinances for collection of public utility charges.
§ 14.5   Disposal of utility plants and property.
§ 14.6   Accounts and finances of public utility.
§ 14.7   Public utility franchises -- Granting.
§ 14.8   Same -- Conditions.
§ 14.9   Same -- Provisions for rates, fares and charges.
§ 14.10   Use of public places by utilities.
§ 14.11   Temporary permits.
§ 14.12   Existing franchises and permits.
   Chapter XV. Miscellaneous.
§ 15.1   Liability of city; procedures for filing claim.
§ 15.2   Records.
§ 15.3   Estoppel against city.
§ 15.4   Processes against city.
§ 15.5   Trusts for municipal purposes.
§ 15.6   Quorum generally.
§ 15.7   Sundays and holidays.
§ 15.8   Chapter, section and subsection headings of Charter.
§ 15.9   Amendment of Charter.
§ 15.10   Severability of Charter provisions.
§ 15.11   Penalties for misconduct in office.
§ 15.12   Definitions generally.
§ 15.13   Definitions of publication and mailing of notices.
PREAMBLE.
   We, the people of the City of Fremont, by the Grace of Almighty God,
pursuant to authority granted by the Constitution and the laws of the State of
Michigan, in order to secure the benefits of efficient self-government and to
promote our common welfare, do hereby ordain and establish this Charter.
CHAPTER I.
Names and Boundaries.
Section 1.1. Name.
   The municipal corporation now existing and known as the City of Fremont, as
its limits now are or may hereafter be established, shall be and continue a
municipal corporation under the laws of the State of Michigan, and shall be
known by the name of City of Fremont.
Section 1.2. Boundaries.
   (a)   The city shall embrace the territory constituting the City of Fremont
on the effective date of this Charter, together with such annexations thereto
and less such detachments therefrom as may be made thereafter. Upon annexation
or detachment of territory, the boundaries shall be deemed changed without
amendment of this section.
   (b)   The clerk shall maintain and keep available in his office for public
inspection the official description and map of the current boundaries of the
city.
Section 1.3. Wards.
   The city shall consist of one single ward.
CHAPTER II.
Municipal Powers.
Section 2.1. General powers.
   Unless otherwise provided or limited in this Charter, the city and its
officers shall have all the powers, privileges and immunities, expressed or
implied, which cities are or hereafter may be permitted by law to use or to
include in their charters.
   The city and its officers shall have the power to manage and control its
finances, (including inter-fund borrowing) rights, interests, buildings and
property; to enter into contracts; to do any act to advance the interest, good
government and prosperity of the city and its residents; to protect the public
peace, health, morals, safety and general welfare; and to prevent and restrain
crime and vice.
   In the use of such powers, the city may enact and enforce ordinances, rules
and regulations and take such other needed action not inconsistent with law.
   The listing of particular powers, privileges or immunities in this section
or elsewhere in this Charter shall not be held to be exclusive.
Section 2.2. Specific powers.
   The powers of the city shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
   (1)   Acquisition of property for public use. The acquisition by purchase,
gift, condemnation, lease, construction, or in any manner permitted by statute,
of private property of every type and nature for pubic use, which property may
be located within or without the City of Fremont and which may be required for
or incidental to the present or future exercise of the purposes, powers and
duties of the city, either proprietary or otherwise;
   (2)    Maintenance, operation, disposal, etc., of city property. The
maintenance, development, operation, leasing, sale, conveyance and disposal of
city property, real or personal, subject to any restrictions placed thereon by
statute or this Charter;
   (3)   Special assessment refunds. The refunding of money advanced or paid on
special assessments;
   (4)   Purchase or condemnation of franchise, etc. The purchase or
condemnation of the franchises and of the property used in the operation of
companies or individuals engaged in the cemetery, hospital, electric light,
gas, heat, water and power business;
   (5)   Streets, alleys, etc. -- Use, regulation, etc., generally. The use,
regulation, improvement, and control of the surface of its streets, alleys,
public ways and other public places and of the space above and beneath them;
   (6)   Same -- Use by public utility. The use of property located in streets,
alleys and public places in the operation of a public utility;
   (7)   Same -- Plan. The providing of a plan of streets and alleys within and
for a distance beyond the municipal limits as permitted by state law;
   (8)   Public parking facilities. The acquisition, establishment, operation,
extension and maintenance of facilities for the storage and parking of vehicles
within its corporate limits, including the fixing and collection of charges for
services and use thereof on a public utility basis, and for such purpose to
acquire by gift, purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, the land necessary
therefore;
   (9)   Steams, waters and water courses. The use, control and regulation of
streams, waters and water courses within its boundaries, subject to any
limitations imposed by statute;
   (10)   Zoning. The establishing of districts or zones within which the use
of land and structures, the height, the area, the size and location of
buildings and required open spaces for light and ventilation of such building
and the density of population may be regulated by ordinance in accordance with
statutory provisions governing zoning;
   (11)   Trades, occupations, amusements, etc. The regulation and licensing of
trades, occupations, amusements, businesses and establishments within the city,
not inconsistent with state and federal laws, and for the prohibition of such
trades, occupations, amusements, businesses and establishments as are
detrimental to the health, morals, safety, or welfare of its inhabitants;
   (12)   Signs and billboards. The licensing, regulating, restricting and
limiting the number and locations of advertising signs or displays and
billboards within the city;
   (13)   Dangerous, offensive or unhealthy things; nuisances. The preventing
of injury or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city from anything which is
dangerous, offensive or unhealthful, and to prevent and abate nuisances and
punish those occasioning them or neglecting or refusing to abate, discontinue,
or remove the same;
   (14)   Licenses. The prescribing of the terms and conditions upon which
licenses may be granted, suspended or revoked; requiring payment of reasonable
sums for licenses; and requiring the furnishing of a bond to the city for the
faithful observance of the conditions under which licenses are granted and
otherwise conditioning such licenses as the council may prescribe;
   (15)   House trailers and mobile homes. The prohibiting or regulating the
use, occupancy, sanitation and parking of house trailers or mobile homes within
the city, and the right of the city to so regulate any house trailer shall not
be abrogated because of any detachment thereof from its wheels or because of
placing it on, or attaching it to, the ground by means of any temporary or
permanent foundation, or in any manner whatsoever;
   (16)   Sidewalks. The requiring an owner of real property within the city to
construct or repair sidewalks abutting upon such property, and if owner fails
to comply with such requirements, to construct or repair sidewalks and assess
the cost thereof against the property abutting upon said sidewalks;
   (17)   Public hazards and nuisances. The requiring an owner of real property
within the city to abate public hazards and nuisances which are dangerous to
the health or safety of inhabitants of the city within a reasonable time after
the council notified said owner that such hazard or nuisances exists, and if
the owner fails to comply with such requirements, or if the owner is unknown,
to abate or demolish such hazards and nuisances and assess the cost thereof
against the property;
   (18)   Snow, ice or other obstructions on sidewalks. The compelling of
owners of real property within the city to keep sidewalks abutting upon their
property clear from snow, ice or other obstructions, and if the owner fails to
comply with such requirements, to remove such snow, ice or other obstructions
and assess the cost thereof against the abutting property;
   (19)   Trees and shrubs. The control over all trees, shrubs and plants in
the public streets, highways, parks or other public places in the city, all
dead and diseased trees on private property, and trees on private property
overhanging the streets, sidewalks or public places and the removal thereof,
and assessing the cost thereof, against the property; and to regulate the
planting of trees, plants and shrubs on private property which obstructs vision
in or upon the public right-of-way so as to be a hazard to public safety;
   (20)   Subdivision platting. The requiring of the platting of all land or
premises within the city hereafter subdivided, in accordance with the terms and
conditions as may be provided by ordinance, subject to any limitations imposed
by statue;
   (21)   Street lighting. The providing for and regulating the lighting of
streets and alleys;
   (22)   Building numbers. The providing for and regulating the numbering of
buildings upon property abutting streets and alleys and compelling the owners
and occupants thereof to affix numbers thereto.
   (23)   Combustibles or explosives; open fires. The regulating and
prohibiting the use of firearms, fireworks, combustible or explosive substances
or materials within the city, and to regulate and prohibit the making of fires
in the streets or other open spaces in the city;
   (24)   Fences. The regulating the height and construction and location of
all fences now or hereafter to be built within the city;
   (25)   Traffic and parking. The regulating of traffic and the parking of
automobiles and other vehicles, regulating the speed of vehicles, upon or
across the streets within the provisions and limitations of law, and the
stopping and parking of the same upon the streets and at street crossings, and
to provide for impounding all vehicles parked in violation of such regulations;
   (26)   Junkyards. The licensing and regulating of junk yards and places for
the dismantling, wrecking and disposing of the junk and/or refuse material of
automobiles; prescribing rules, regulations and conditions for the operation of
the same; providing penalties for the operation of the same without a license
and for the violation of any rule, regulation or condition;
   (27)   Refuse and garbage accumulation. The regulating, limiting or
prohibiting the private keeping, storing and/or accumulation of ashes, rubbish,
garbage, junk and parts of old automobiles or other refuse material upon the
streets or alleys of the city or on unenclosed private property, and to provide
for declaring the same to be a public nuisance;
   (28)   Buildings; fire zones. The regulating, limiting or prohibiting the
construction, erection, alteration, equipment, repair, moving removal, use and
demolition of buildings and structures and their appurtenances and service
equipment; and create and enforce fire zones or districts in the city for the
diminishing and control of the hazards of fire in such zones or districts;
   (29)   Refuse and garbage collection. The collecting and disposing of
garbage and rubbish and licensing, regulating and prohibiting the same when
done by others than the city;
   (30)   Fire protection. The providing of fire protection for all properties
within the city, public or private by establishing and providing a fire
department together with all its needs and requirements or by contracting with
other corporations, firms or persons, municipal, public or private for the
furnishing of adequate faire protection;
   (31)   City services outside city. The furnishing of city services to
persons, firms, corporations or governing bodies outside the corporate limits
of the city;
   (32)   Construction, operation, etc., of structure, etc., intended for
public purposes. The constructing, providing, maintaining, extending,
operating, regulating and improving any structure or facility which is devoted
to or intended for public purposes within the scope of the powers of the city;
   (33)   Pollution. The abatement of air, water, land, noise, or other types
of pollution which would be contrary to the best interest of the City of
Fremont.
Section 2.3. Intergovernmental contracts.
   The city shall have the power to join with any other governmental unit or
agency or with any number or combinations thereof, by contracts or otherwise,
as may be permitted by law, for the ownership, operation or performance,
jointly or by any one or more, on behalf of all, of any property, facility or
service which each would have the power to own, operate or perform separately.
CHAPTER III.
Elections.
Section 3.1. Qualifications of electors.
   The residents of the city having the qualifications of electors in the State
of Michigan shall be electors in the city.
Section 3.2. Procedure.
   The election of all city officers shall be on a non-partisan basis. The
general election statutes shall apply to and control all procedures relating to
city elections, including qualification of electors, establishment of
precincts, verification or petitions, registration of voters and voting hours.
The clerk shall give public notice of each city election in the same manner as
is required by law for the giving of public notice of general elections in the
state.
Section 3.3. Precincts.
   The election precincts of city shall remain as they existed on the effective
date of this Charter unless altered by the elections commission in accordance
with statutes.
Section 3.4. Date of regular city elections.
   A non-partisan regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday
following the first Monday of November of the odd numbered years.
Section 3.5. Date of special elections.
   Special city elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
council at least sixty days in advance of such election, or when required by
law. Any resolution calling a special election shall set forth the purpose of
such election.
Section 3.6. Notice.
   Notice of the time and place of holding any city election and of the
officers to be nominated or elected and the questions to be voted upon shall be
given by the clerk as provided in the state election law for the giving of
notice by city clerks.
Section 3.7. Voting hours.
   The polls of all elections shall be opened and closed at the time prescribed
by law for the opening and closing of polls at state elections.
Section 3.8. Nominations -- Generally.
   The method of nomination for all candidates for city elections shall be by
petitions. Such petitions for each candidate shall be signed by not less than
fifteen registered electors of the city. No person shall sign his name to a
greater number of petitions for any one office than there are persons to be
elected to said office at the following regular city election. Where the
signature of any individual appears on more petitions than he is permitted to
sign, the signatures bearing the most recent date shall be invalidated.
Nomination petitions shall be filed with the clerk up to 4:00 p.m. eastern
standard time of the first Tuesday following the first Monday in August of the
odd numbered years. The clerk shall publish notice of the last day permitted
for filing nomination petitions and of the number of persons to be elected to
each office at least one week and not more than three weeks before such last
day.
Section 3.9. Same -- Form of petition.
   The form of petition shall be substantially as that designated by the
Secretary of State for the nomination of non-partisan officers. The clerk shall
provide and maintain a supply of official petition forms.
Section 3.10. Same -- Approval of petition.
   The clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform with the
forms provided and maintained by him, and which, considered together, contain
the required number of valid signatures for candidates having those
qualifications required for the respective elective city offices by this
Charter. When a petition is filed by persons other than the person whose name
appears thereon as a candidate, it shall be accepted only when accompanied by
the written consent of the candidate. The clerk shall, forthwith after the
filing of a petition, notify in writing any candidate whose petition is then
found not to meet the requirements of this section, but the failure to so
notify any candidate shall in no way prevent a final determination that the
petition does not meet such requirements. Within there days after the last date
of filling petitions, the clerk shall make his final determinations as to the
validity and sufficiency of each nomination petition and whether or not the
candidate has the qualifications required for his respective elective city
office by this Charter and shall write his determinations thereof on the face
of the petition and shall notify in writing the candidate whose name appears
thereon of his determinations. Such notice to any candidate whose petitions are
so found to be invalid or insufficient shall be allowed to file supplementary
or replacement petitions before 4:00 o'clock in the afternoon on the sixth day
after the last date for filing original petitions. The names of the candidates
for the respective elective city offices who file valid and sufficient
nomination petitions shall be certified by the clerk to the election commission
to be placed upon the ballot for the next subsequent regular city election or
the next special election for the filling of vacancies in office, as the case
may be.
Section 3.11. Same -- Candidate to run for only one office.
   The clerk shall not accept nominating petitions for the election of any
candidate for more than the office. However, if a candidate withdraws his
petitions for election to any elective office prior to the last day for filling
petitions, he may thereafter file petitions for another office prior to the
last day for filing petitions.
Section 3.12. Same -- Withdrawal of candidate.
   After the filing of a nomination petition by or in behalf of a proposed
candidate for a city office, such candidate shall not be permitted to withdraw
unless a written notice of withdrawal is served on the city clerk not later
than 4:00 o'clock, eastern standard time, in the afternoon of the third day
after the last day for filing petitions as in this Charter provided, unless the
third day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which case the
notice of withdrawal may be served on the clerk up to 4:00 p.m. o'clock,
eastern standard time, on the next secular day.
Section 3.13. Same -- Public inspection of petitions.
   All nomination petitions filed shall be open to public inspection in the
office of the clerk.
Section 3.14. Election commission created; composition; duties; compensation.
   An election commission is hereby created consisting of the city clerk, as
chairman, the city attorney and the city assessor. The election commission
shall appoint the board of election inspectors for each precinct and shall have
charge of all activities and duties required of it by law relating to the
conduct of elections in the city. The compensation of the election personnel
shall be determined in advance by the city council. In any case when election
procedure is in doubt, the election commission shall prescribe the procedure to
be followed.
Section 3.15. Form of ballot.
   The ballots for all elections under this Charter shall conform to the
printing and numbering of ballots as required by statue, except that no party
designation or emblem shall appear on any city ballot.
Section 3.16. Board of canvassers.
   A board of canvassers shall be appointed in accordance with state law.
Section 3.17. Custody and safekeeping of registration books and supplies.
   The clerk shall be responsible for the custody and safekeeping of all
registration books and supplies. On election day, he shall deliver them to the
respective board of inspectors of election, taking their receipt therefor.
Section 3.18. Absentee ballots.
   The electors of the city shall be entitled to vote by absentee ballots at
any city election as provided by law.
Section 3.19. Determination of election ending in tie vote.
   If, at any city election, there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two or more persons having received an equal number of votes, then
the Newaygo County Board of Canvassers shall name a date within five days after
said election for the appearance of such persons for the purpose of determining
the election of such candidates by lot as provided by statute.
Section 3.20. Recount.
   A recount of the voters cast at any city election for any office or upon any
proposition may be had in accordance with election statutes.
Section 3.21. Purity of election; lawful and unlawful acts.
   All laws of the State of Michigan now in force or hereinafter enacted
relating to the purity of elections, and as to what are lawful and what are
unlawful acts, shall apply to all elections held under this chapter.
CHAPTER IV.
Organization of Government.
Section 4.1. Form.
   The city shall have the council-manager form of government.
Section 4.2. City council composition and power.
   There shall be a city council consisting of four councilmen and the mayor
who shall be deemed a member of the council for all purposes. The council shall
constitute the legislative and governing body of the city and shall have the
power and authority to adopt such ordinances and resolutions as it shall deem
proper in the exercise of its powers. The word "council" when used in this
Charter shall be synonymous with the word "commission" or any other term used
in any state or federal law in referring to a municipal legislative or
governing body.
Section 4.3. Qualifications of council members.
   The members of the council shall meet the eligibility requirements as set
forth in section 5.1 of this Charter. The council shall be the sole judge of
the qualifications of its members.
Section 4.4. Election and terms of office of mayor and councilmen.
   At each regular election there shall be elected from the city at large a
mayor for a term of two (2) years and two (2) councilmen for terms of four
years and such additional number of councilmen as may be required to fill
vacancies. All terms shall commence at 9:00 o'clock a.m. on the Monday next
following date of election.
Section 4.5. Compensation of mayor and councilmen; reimbursement of expenses.
   Each councilman and the mayor shall receive as compensation the sum of
thirty dollars ($30.00) for each regular or special meeting attended but no to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per year. The mayor shall receive the
additional sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per year. All compensation to
be paid annually. The council may reimburse the mayor or any councilmember for
any authorized necessary expense incurred in service of the city, provided an
itemized statement therefor is submitted to the council and payment therefor is
authorized. (Charter Amend. Res. of 5-7-90, 2)
Section 4.6. Organizational meeting of council; selection of mayor pro tem.
   The council shall hold its organizational meeting at the first regular
meeting next following the election of its members. At this time the council
shall select a mayor pro tem from its members.
Section 4.7. Powers and duties of mayor; mayor pro tem.
   (a)   The mayor shall preside all meetings of the council. He shall be a
full voting member of the council but shall have no veto power. He shall be the
chief executive officer of the city insofar as required by law and for all
ceremonial purposes. He shall be the conservator of the peace and shall have
the powers conferred by law upon sheriffs in times of emergency to suppress
disorder, preserve the public peace and health and safety of persons and
property and have other emergency powers as permitted by law. He shall
authenticate by signature such instruments as may be required under provisions
of law. He shall do all acts required of him by law.
   (b)    The mayor pro tem shall act in place of the mayor in the absence or
disability of the mayor. He shall succeed to the office of mayor in the case of
a vacancy in that office, thereby creating a vacancy in the office of mayor pro
tem. The council shall fill any vacancy in the office of mayor pro tem. Until
such vacancy is filled, the senior member of the council from the standpoint of
continuous service shall act as mayor pro tem. Between persons of equal
seniority, the person who received the highest number of votes at the time of
his last election shall act.
Section 4.8. Council's dealings with administrative services; council's
ordering of subordinates of city manager.
   Except for the purpose of investigations as provided in Section 6.8, and
except in those cases where the council must, by law, deal directly with the
administrative services, the council and its members shall deal with the
administrative services solely through the city manager. Neither the council
nor any member thereof shall give orders to any of the subordinates of the city
manager.
CHAPTER V.
General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel.
Section 5.1. Eligibility for office.
   (a)   No person shall hold any elective office of the city, unless he was a
resident of the city for at least one year immediately prior to the date of the
election at which he is a candidate. He must also have been a registered
elector on the last day for filing nominating petitions for such office or
prior to his appointment to fill a vacancy.
   (b)   No person shall be eligible for any elective or appointive city office
who is in default to the city. The holding of office by any person who is in
default shall create a vacancy unless such default shall be eliminated within
thirty (30) days after written notice thereof has been served at his last known
place of residence by the city clerk upon the direction of the council, or,
unless the officer contests his liability for the default in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   No person who holds or has held the office of councilman shall be
eligible to hold any appointive office for which there is compensation paid by
the city until one year has elapsed following the expiration of the term of
office for which he was elected. This provision would not apply to appointments
where nominal compensation may be paid by the city.
   (d)   No appointive city officer or employee shall seek an elective office
of the city unless he resigns his position with the city on or before the last
date for filing petitions.
Section 5.2. Financial interest of officer in contract with city; officer
standing as surety of giving bail required by Charter of city ordinance.
   (a)   Except as permitted by this section no contact or purchase involving
an amount in excess of five hundred dollars shall be made by the city in which
any officer or any member of his family has any financial interest, direct or
indirect. A "contract" shall for the purpose of this section include any
arrangement or agreement pursuant to which any materiel, service or other thing
of value is to be furnished to the city for a valuable consideration to be paid
by the city or is to be sold or transferred by the city, except the furnishing
of personal services as an officer or employee of the city. The term "member of
his family" shall include only spouse, child, grandchild, father, mother,
sister, brother and the spouse of any of them.
   (b)   Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) of this section, an
officer shall be deemed to have a financial interest in a contract if he or any
member of his family is an employee, partner, officer, director or sales
representative of the person, firm or corporation with which such contract is
made or a sales representative of such person, firm or corporation. Ownership,
individually or in a fiduciary capacity, by an officer or member of his family
of securities, of any corporation with which a contract is made or is a sales
representative of any person, firm or corporation with which such contract is
made, shall not be deemed to create a financial interest in said contract
unless the aggregate amount of such securities or interest in such securities,
so owned by such officer and the members of his family, shall amount to ten
percent of any class of the securities of such corporation then outstanding.
   (c)   A contract in which an officer or member of his family has a financial
interest may be made by the city if the members of the council having no such
interest shall unanimously determine that the best interest of the city will be
served by the making of such contract is made after comparative prices are
obtained.
   (d)   Any officer who knowingly permits the city to enter into any contract
or purchase in which he has a financial interest without disclosing such
interest to the council prior to the action of the council in authorizing such
contract, shall be guilty of misconduct in office. Except in the instances
specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the unanimous determination (by
vote or written instrument) of all members of the council that in a particular
case an officer or member of his family will not have a financial interest in
any contract or purchase to be entered into by the city shall be final and
conclusive in the absence of fraud or misrepresentation.
   (e)   No officer shall stand as surety on any bond to the city or give any
bail for any other person which may be required by the Charter or any ordnance
of the city. Any officer of the city who violates the provisions of this
paragraph shall be guilty of misconduct in office.
Section 5.3. Holding of appointive office or employment by relative of elective
or appointive officer.
   Unless the council shall by unanimous vote shall be recorded as part of its
official proceedings, determine that the best interests of city shall be
served, the following relatives of any elective or appointive officer are
disqualified from holding any appointive office or employment during the term
for which said elective or appointive office was elected or appointed; spouse,
child, parent, grandchild, grandparent, brother, sister, half-sister, half-
brother or the spouses of any of them. All relationships shall include those
arising from adoption. This section shall in no way disqualify such relatives
or their spouses who are bona fide appointive offices or employees of the city
at the time of the election or appointment of said official.
Section 5.4. Oath of office and bond required.
   Every officer, elective or appointive, before entering upon the duties of
his office, shall qualify by taking his oath of office prescribed for public
officers by the Constitutions of the state, and by filing the oath with the
clerk, together with any bond required by statute, this Charter or by the
council. In case of failure to comply with the provisions of this section
within ten days from the date he is notified in writing of his election or
appointment, such officer shall be deemed to have declined the office and such
office shall thereupon become vacant unless the council shall, be resolution,
extend the time in which such officer may qualify as about set forth.
Section 5.5. Surety bonds.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, all officers of the city whose
duties involve the custody of public property or the handling of public funds,
either by way of receipt or disbursement or both, and all other officers and
employees so required by the council shall, before they enter upon the duties
of their respective offices, file with the city an official bond, in such form
and amount as the council shall direct and approve.
   The official bond of every officer or employee whose duty it may be to
receive or pay out money, shall be conditioned that he will on demand, pay over
or account for to the city, or any proper officer or agent thereof, all moneys
received by him as such officer or employee. The requirements of this paragraph
may be met by the purchase of one or more appropriate blanket surety bonds
covering all, or a group of, city employees and officers.
   All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums thereon
shall be paid by the city. The clerk shall be custodian of all the bonds of all
officers or employees except that the treasurer shall be custodian of any bonds
pertaining solely to the clerk.
Section 5.6. Delivery of effects of office to successor or superior when
officer or employee ceases to hold office.
   Whenever any officer or employee shall cease to hold such office or
employment for any reason whatsoever, he shall within five days, or sooner, on
demand, deliver to his successor in office or to his superior all the books,
papers, money and effects in his custody that in any manner pertains to his
office. Any officer violation this provision may be proceeded against in the
same manner as public officers generally for a like offense under statute.
Section 5.7. Declaration of vacancy in elective office.
   Any elective city office shall be declared vacant by the council before the
expiration of the term of such office:
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute or by this Charter as creating a
vacancy in office;
   (b)   If no person is elected to, or qualified for the office at the
election at which such office is to be filled;
   (c)   If the officer shall be found guilty by a competent tribunal of any
act constituting misconduct in office under the provisions of this Charter;
   (d)   In the case of any member of the council, if such officer shall miss
four consecutive regular meetings of the council or twenty-five percent of such
meetings in any fiscal year of the city, unless such absence shall be excused
by the council and the reason therefor entered in its proceedings at the time
of each absence;
   (e)   If the officer is removed from office by the council in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.9.
Section 5.8. Declaration of vacancy in boards or commissions.
   The office of any member of any board or commission created by, or pursuant
to, this Charter shall be declared vacant by the council before the expiration
of the term of such office:
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute or by this Charter as creating a
vacancy in office;
   (b)   If the officer shall be found guilty by a competent tribunal of any
act constituting misconduct in office under the provisions of this Charter;
   (c)   If the officer shall miss four consecutive regular meetings of a board
or commission or twenty-five percent of such meetings in any fiscal year of the
city, unless such absence shall be excused by the board or commission and the
reason therefor entered in the proceedings at the time of each absence;
   (d)   If the officer is removed from office by the council in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.9.
Section 5.9. Removal from office.
   Removals by the council of elective officers or of members or boards of
commissions shall be made for either of the following reasons:
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute for removal of city officers by
the governor.
   (b)   For any act declared by this Charter to constitute misconduct in
office. Such removals by the council shall be made only after a hearing of
which the officer has been given notice by the clerk at least ten days in
advance, either personally or by certified mail, addressed to him at his last
known place of residence. Such notice shall include a copy of the charges
against the officer. The hearing shall afford an opportunity to the officer, in
person or by attorney, to be heard in his defense, to cross-examine witnesses
and to present testimony. If the officer shall neglect to appear at the hearing
and answer the charges, his failure to do so may be deemed cause for his
removal. A majority vote of the members of the council in office at the time,
exclusive of any member whose removal is being considered, shall be required
for any such removal.
Section 5.10. Resignations of elective and appointive officers.
   Resignations of elective officers and of members of boards and commissions
shall be made in writing and filed with the clerk and shall be acted upon by
the council at its next regular or special meeting following receipt thereof by
the clerk. Resignations of appointive officers shall be made in writing to the
appointing officer or body and shall be acted upon immediately.
Section 5.11. Filling vacancy in council.
   Any vacancy in the council which occurs more than fifty-nine (59) days
before the next regular city election may be filled within sixty (60) days by a
majority of the members of the council then in office. Said appointment shall
be for a term expiring on the date of the regular meeting following the next
regular city election at which election such vacancy shall be filled for the
balance of the unexpired term through the regular election procedure as
provided elsewhere in this Charter.
Section 5.12. Filling vacancies in offices.
   Vacancies in appointive offices shall be filled in the manner provided for
making the original appointment. In the case of members of boards and
commissions appointed for a definite term, such appointments shall be for the
unexpired term.
   Vacancies in elective offices shall be filled by appointment by the city
council until the next regular city election, when the vacancy shall be filled
by election for the residue of the official term.
   Editor's note -- Section 5.12 was approved by the city council on July 19,
1976, published in the newspaper on October 14 and 21, 1976, approved by a vote
of the people on November 2, 1976, and filed with the Michigan secretary of
state under the date of December 20, 1976.
Section 5.13. Changes in term of office or compensation.
   Except by procedures provided in this Charter, the terms of office of the
elective officers and of members of boards and commissions appointed for
definite terms shall not be shortened. The terms of elective officers of the
city shall not be extended beyond the period for which any such officer was
elected except that an elective officer shall, after his/her term has expired,
continue to hold office until his/her successor is elected and has qualified.
   The council shall not grant or authorize extra compensation to any officer
or employee after the service has been rendered. (Charter Amend. Res. of 5-7-
90, 2)
Section 5.14. Compensation of employees not provided for by Charter; bona fide
expenses incurred in service of city.
   (a)   The compensation of all employees and officers of the city whose
compensation is not provided for herein, shall be fixed by the council within
the limits of budget appropriations, and in accordance with any pay plan
adopted by the council. Compensation for officers and the adoption of a pay
plan shall be by ordinance.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the payment of
necessary bona fide expense incurred in service in behalf of the city.
Section 5.15. Group insurance for officers and employees.
   The council shall have the power to make available to the administrative
officers and employees of the city and its departments and boards any
recognized standard plan of group life, hospital, health, or accident insurance
either independently of, or as a supplement to, any retirement plan provided
for said officers and employees.
Section 5.16. Employees retirement system.
   The council may provide for a retirement system for the city employees.
Section 5.17. Merit system for employees.
   The council may provide for a merit system for city employees.
CHAPTER VI.
Council: Procedures, Powers and Duties.
Section 6.1. Regular meetings.
   The council shall provide for the time and place of its regular meetings and
shall hold at least two (2) such meetings each month.
Section 6.2. Special meetings.
   Special meetings shall be called by the clerk on the written request of the
mayor, or any two members of the council on at least six (6) hours' written
notice to each member of the council served personally or left at his usual
place of residence, but a special meetings may be held on shorter notice if all
members of the council are present or if the absent members of the council have
waived notice thereof in writing.
Section 6.3. Business of special meetings.
   No business shall be transacted at any special meetings of the council
unless the same shall have been stated in the notice of such meetings. However,
any business which might lawfully come before a regular meetings may be
transacted at such special meeting if all the members present consent thereto.
Section 6.4. Meetings to be public.
   All regular and special meetings shall be open to the public and citizens
shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
Section 6.5. Quorum.
   Three (3) members of the council shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business at al meetings of the council. In the absence of the council. In the
absence of a quorum, any number of members less than a quorum may adjourn any
regular or special meeting to a later date.
Section 6.6. Attendance; conduct; sergeant-at-arms.
   Any three or more members of the council may be vote either request or
compel the attendance of its members and other officers of the city at any
meeting. Any members of the council or other officer, who when notified of such
request for his attendance, fails to attend such meeting for reasons other than
confining illness or extenuating circumstances shall be deemed guilty of
misconduct in office unless excused by the council. The presiding officer shall
enforce orderly conduct at meetings and any councilman or other officer who
shall fail to conduct himself in an orderly manner at any meeting shall be
deemed guilty of misconduct in office.
   Any police officer designated by the presiding officer of the meeting shall
serve as the sergeant-at-arms of the council in the enforcement of the
provisions of this section.
Section 6.7. Organization, rules and order of business.
   The council shall determine its own organization, rules and order of
business subject to the following provisions:
   (a)   A journal of the proceedings of each meeting in the English language
shall be kept by the clerk, and shall be signed by the presiding officer and
clerk of the meeting.
   (b)   A vote upon all ordinances and resolutions shall be taken by "yes" and
"no" vote, and entered upon the records, except that where the vote is
unanimous it shall only be necessary to so state.
   (c)   No member of the council shall vote on any question in which he has a
financial interest, other than one common public interest, or on any question
concerning his own conduct, but on all other questions each member who is
present shall vote when his name is called unless excused by the majority
consent of the remaining members present. Any member refusing to vote except
when not so required by this paragraph, may be guilty of misconduct in office.
   (d)   In all roll call votes the names of the members of the council shall
be called in alphabetical order, and the name to be called first shall be
advanced one position alphabetically in each successive roll call.
Section 6.8. Investigation into conduct of office, employee, etc.; power to
summon and compel attendance of witness and production of evidence.
   The council or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office, officer
or employee of the City of Fremont, and to make investigations as to matters in
which the municipality has an interest. The council, for the purpose stated
herein, may summon witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the attendance of
witnesses and the production of books, papers, and other evidence.
   Failure on the part of any officer to obey such summons or to produce books,
papers, and other evidence as ordered under the provisions of this section
shall constitute misconduct in office. Failure on the part of any employee to
obey such summons or to produce books, papers, or other evidence as ordered
under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a violation of this
Charter and such employee when found guilty of such violation by a competent
tribunal may be punished by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars, or
imprisonment not to exceed ninety days, or both, in the discretion of the
court.
   It is provided further that, in case of failure on the part of any person to
obey such summons or to produce such books, papers, and other evidence as so
ordered, the council may invoke the aid of the Circuit Court of Newaygo County
in requiring obeyance of such summons or production of such books, papers, and
other evidence.
Section 6.9. Public peace, health and safety; composition and powers of board
of health.
   The council shall see that provision is made for the public peace and
health, and for the safety of persons and property. The council shall
constitute the board of health of the city, and it and its officers shall
possess all powers, privileges, and immunities granted to boards of health by
statute.
CHAPTER VII.
Administrative Services.
Section 7.1. Administrative officers generally.
   The administrative officers of the city shall be the city manager, clerk,
treasurer, assessor, city attorney, chief of police, fire chief and a board of
review. The duties of one or more of the administrative officers of the city
may be discharged by one person.
Section 7.2. City manager -- Appointment; removal; compensation.
   (a)   The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
government. He shall be appointed by the council on the basis of training and
ability. He shall serve at the pleasure of, and be subject to removal by the
council, but he shall not be removed from office during a period of sixty (60)
days following any regular city election except by the affirmative vote of four
members of the council. His compensation shall be set by the council.
   (b)   The council shall appoint a city manager within ninety (90) days after
any vacancy exists in such position or they may appoint an acting manager
during the period of a vacancy in the office, or the city manager, with the
consent and approval of the council, may designate an administrative officer or
employee of the city to act as city manager if he is temporarily absent from
the city or unable to perform the duties of his office. The residence
requirements of the city manager shall be at the discretion of the council.
Section 7.3. Same -- Function and duties.
   (a)   The city manager shall be responsible to the council for the proper
administration of the affairs of the city. He shall appoint and remove all
employees of the city and shall make recommendations to the council relative to
the appointment and removal of the clerk, treasurer, assessor, city attorney,
chief of police and fire chief. He shall set employees compensation within the
pay plan adopted by the council, and he shall supervise and coordinate the work
of the administrative officers and departments of the city except the work of
the city clerk in keeping the council records and as the clerical official of
the council.
   (b)   The city managers shall see that all laws and ordinances are enforced.
He shall prepare and administer the annual budget under policies formulated by
the council and he shall keep the council advised as to the financial condition
and needs of the city. He shall furnish the council with information concerning
city affairs and prepare and submit such reports as may be required or which
the council may request. Subject to any employment ordinance of the city, he
shall employ or be responsible for the employment for all city employees and
supervise and coordinate the personnel policies and practices of the city. He
shall establish and maintain a central purchasing service for the city and he
or his authorized representative shall be the purchasing agent for the city.
   (c)   The city manager shall attend all meetings of the council with the
right to be heard in all council proceedings but without the right to vote. He
shall posses such other powers and perform such additional duties as may be
granted to or required of him by the council, so far as may be consistent with
the provisions of law. He shall establish any rules necessary to carry out any
of the foregoing duties.
Section 7.4. Clerk.
   (a)   The clerk shall be the clerical officer of the council and shall keep
its journal. He shall keep a record of all actions of the council at its
regular and special meetings. He shall certify all ordinances and resolutions
adopted by the council.
   (b)   The clerk shall have the power to administer all oaths required by law
and by the ordinances of the city. He shall be the custodian of the city seal,
and shall affix the same to documents required to be sealed. He shall be the
custodian of all papers, documents, and records pertaining to the city, unless
otherwise provided by this Charter. He shall give the proper officials ample
notice of the expiration or termination of any official bonds, franchises,
contracts or agreements to which the city is a part and he shall notify the
council of the failure of any officer or employee required to take an oath of
office or furnish and bond required of him. He shall be the chief election
officer for the city.
   (c)   The clerk shall perform such other duties in connection with his
office as may be required of him by law, the ordinances or resolutions of the
council, or by the city manager.
Section 7.5. Treasurer.
   (a)   The treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys of the city, the
clerk's bond, and all evidences of value or indebtedness belonging to or held
in trust by the city. He shall keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such
manner and only in such places as the council may determine, and shall report
the same to the city manager.
   (b)   The treasurer shall have such powers, duties and prerogatives in
regard to the collection and custody of state, county, school district, and
city taxes and money as are provided by law.
   (c)   He shall disburse all city funds in accordance with provisions of law
and this Charter.
   (d)   He shall establish and maintain a general accounting plan which will
conform to such uniform system as may be required by law.
   (e)   He shall perform such other duties in connection with his office as
may be required of him by law, the ordinances and resolutions of the council,
or by the city manager.
Section 7.6. Assessor.
   (a)   The assessor shall possess all the power vested in and shall be
charged with the duties imposed upon the assessing officer by law. He shall
make and prepare all regular and special assessment rolls in the manner
prescribed by law or ordinances of the city.
   (b)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or the
ordinances of the city, or by the city manager.
Section 7.7. Attorney.
   (a)   The city attorney shall be legal advisor and counsel for the city and
for all the officers and departments thereof in all matters relating to their
official duties and shall file with the city a copy of all written opinions
given by him. He shall prepare or review all ordinances, regulations,
contracts, bonds, and other such instruments as may be required by this
Charter, the council, or the city manager, and shall promptly give his opinion
as to the legality thereof.
   (b)   He shall prosecute ordinance violations and shall represent the city
in cases before the courts and other tribunals. In such instances as the
council shall direct, he shall defend officers and employees of the city in
actions arising out of the performance of their official duties.
   (c)   Upon the city attorney's recommendation, or upon its own initiative,
the council may retain special legal counsel to handle any matters in which the
city has an interest, or to assist the city attorney.
   (d)   He shall perform such other duties in connection with his office as
may be prescribed for him by this Charter, the council or the city manager.
Section 7.8. City planning commission; zoning.
   The council shall maintain a city planning commission in accordance with and
having all the powers and duties granted by the provisions of statute relating
to such commissions.
   The council shall maintain a zoning ordinance in accordance with the
provisions of statute relating to such ordinances. The ordinance shall provide
that zoning be coordinated with the work of the city planning commission.
Section 7.9. Advisory boards or committees.
   The council may appoint such boards or committees as are deemed appropriate
to advise and consult with them regarding any municipal activity. Such boards
or committees shall serve for indefinite periods and without compensation
unless otherwise provided by the council.
CHAPTER VIII.
Legislation.
Section 8.1. Prior legislation.
   All valid ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City of
Fremont which are not inconsistent with this Charter and which are in force and
in effect of the effective date of this Charter shall continue in full force
and effect until repealed or amended.
Section 8.2. Ordinances and resolutions generally.
   All official actions of the council shall be by ordinance, resolution,
motion or order. Action by resolution, motion or order shall be limited to
matters required or permitted to be so done by this Charter or by state or
federal law or pertaining to the internal affairs or concerns of the city
government. All other acts of the council and all acts carrying a penalty for
the violation thereof, shall be by ordinance.
   Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed form. The
style of all ordinances shall be: "The City of Fremont Ordains:"
Section 8.3. Ordinances -- Identification; repeal; amendment; records; Code.
   (a)   Each ordinance, after adoption, shall be identified by a number and
title.
   (b)   An ordinance or a part of an ordinance may be repealed or amended only
by an ordinance passed in the manner provided in this section. An ordinance may
be repealed by reference to its number and title only.
   (c)   If a section of an ordinance is amended, the section shall be re-
enacted and published in full. In the event only a subsection of an ordinance
is amended, the council need only re-enact and publish said subsection in full
provided that the publication shall contain a notice to the effect that the
complete copy of the ordinance is available for public use and inspection at
the office of the city clerk. This requirement shall not apply to the schedule
of stop streets, one-way streets, parking limitations or other regulations
contained in any traffic ordinance or vehicular traffic regulating portion of
the city's Code.
   (d)   Each ordinance shall be recorded by the clerk forthwith in the
ordinance book, and the enactment of such ordinance and the effective date
thereof shall be certified by him herein.
   (e)   The ordinances of the city shall be set forth in code form as soon as
practicable.
Section 8.4. Same -- Publication; effective date; adoption by reference.
   (a)   Before an ordinance may become operative, it shall be published in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city. The effective date of the
ordinance shall be stated therein but shall not be less than ten days after
publication. However, if it is declared by the affirmative vote of not less
than three members of the council to be an emergency ordinance affecting the
public peace, health, safety, or general welfare the ordinance may be given
earlier effect and the requirement for publication may be met by posting copies
of the ordinance in three conspicuous locations in public places in the city.
In the case of such emergency ordinance, the clerk shall immediately after such
posting enter in the ordinance book stating the time and places of the posting.
Such ordinance shall also be published in accordance with the requirement for
publication of other ordinances but not as a requirement for the effectiveness
thereof.
   (b)   All codes and other ordinance subject matter, which are or may be
permitted by law to be adopted by reference, shall be adopted and published in
the manner permitted and required by law.
Section 8.5. Penalties.
   The council may provide in any ordinance for the punishment of those who
violate its provisions. The punishment for the violation of any city ordinance
shall not exceed a fine of five hundred dollars, or imprisonment for ninety
days, or both, in the discretion of the court.
Section 8.6. Initiatory and referendary petitions -- Generally.
   Any ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum on an enacted
ordinance may be had by petition, as hereinafter provided.
Section 8.7. Same -- Contents; signatures; affidavit of petitioner;
verification.
   An initiatory or referendary petition shall be signed by not less than ten
(10%) percent of the registered electors of the city, as of the date of the
last regular city election, and all signatures on said petitions shall be
obtained within thirty days before the date of filing the petition with the
clerk. Any such petition shall be addressed to the council and may be the
aggregate of two or more petition papers identical as to contents and
simultaneously filed by one person. An initiatory petition shall set forth in
full the ordinance it proposes to initiate, and no petition shall propose to
initiate more than one ordinance. A referendary petition shall identify the
ordinance, or part thereof, it proposes to have repealed.
   Each signer of a petition shall sign his name and place thereon after his
name, the date and his place of residence by street and number, or by other
customary designation. To each petition paper there shall be attached a sworn
affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of signers thereof, and
that each signature thereon is the genuine signature of the person whose name
it purports to be, and that it was made in the presence of the affiant. Such
petitions shall be filed with the clerk who shall, within fifteen days, verify
the signatures thereon. If the petition does not contain a sufficient number of
signatures of registered electors of the city, the clerk shall notify forthwith
the person filing such petition and fifteen days from such notification shall
be allowed for the filing of supplemental petition papers. When a petition with
sufficient signatures is filed within the time allowed by this section, the
clerk shall present the petition to the council at its next regular meeting.
Section 8.8. Same -- Action by council upon receipt.
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the clerk the
council shall, within thirty days, unless otherwise provided by statute,
either,
   (a)   Adopt the ordinance as submitted by initiatory petition;
   (b)   Repeal the ordinance, or part thereof, referred to by a referendary
petition; or
   (c)   Determine to submit the proposal provided for in the petition to the
electors.
Section 8.9. Same -- Submission to electors.
   Should the council decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it shall
be submitted at the next election held in the city for any other purpose, or,
in the discretion of the council, at a special election called for that
specific purpose. In the case of an initiatory petition, if no election is to
be held in the city for any other purpose within one hundred and fifty days
from the time the petition is presented to the council and the council does not
adopt the ordinance, then the council shall call a special election within
sixty days from such time for the submission of the initiatory proposal. The
result shall be determined by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon,
except in cases where otherwise required by law.
Section 8.10. Same -- Suspension of operation of ordinance in referendum;
amendment or repeal; adoption of conflicting ordinances at the same election.
   The presentation to the council by the clerk of a valid referendary petition
shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance in question pending
repeal by the council or final determination by the electors.
   An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory proceedings may
not be amended or repealed for a period of one year after the date of the
election at which it was adopted, and an ordinance repealed by the electorate
may not be re-enacted for a period of one year after the date of the election
at which it was repealed.
   If two or more ordinances adopted at the same election shall have
conflicting provisions the provisions in the ordinance receiving the highest
number of affirmative votes shall govern.
Section 8.11. Recall.
   Any elected official may be recalled from office by the electors of the city
in the manner provided by statute. A vacancy created by such recall shall be
filled in the manner prescribed by this Charter and by statute.
CHAPTER IX.
Finances and Budgets.
Section 9.1. Fiscal year.
   The fiscal and budget year of the city shall begin on July 1.
Section 9.2. Budget -- Recommended budget.
   On or before the third Monday in May in each year the city manager shall
submit to the council a recommended budget for the next fiscal year which,
considering any anticipated unexpended balance or deficit at the end of the
current fiscal year, is within the tax limit and other anticipated revenue of
the city. Such recommended budget shall include therein at least the following
information:
   (a)   The detailed estimates of the city manager, with supporting
explanation of proposed expenditures for each office, department, and board of
the city, with a comparison of the actual expenditures for the corresponding
items for the last preceding fiscal year in full, and the expenditures for the
current fiscal year to March 31 and an estimate of the expenditures for the
balance of the current fiscal year;
   (b)   Statements of the indebtedness of the city, showing the principal and
interest requirements for the next fiscal year, the debt authorized and
unissued and the condition of the sinking and debt retirement funds, if any;
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated revenues of the city from
sources other than taxes, with a comparative statement of the amounts estimated
for and actually received from each of the same or similar sources for the last
preceding fiscal year in full, for the current fiscal year to March 31, and
estimated revenues therefrom for the balance of the current fiscal year;
   (d)   A statement of the estimated accumulated cash and unencumbered
balances, or deficits, at the end of the current fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from taxes to be
levied, from delinquent taxes, and the amount to be raised from bond issues
which, together with available unappropriated funds and any revenues from other
sources, will be necessary to meet the proposed expenditures;
   (f)   Such other supporting information as the council may request.
Section 9.3. Same -- Public hearing.
   Before its final adoption, public hearing on the budget proposal shall be
held as provided by law. Notice of the time and place of holding such hearing
shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the city at
least a week in advance thereof. A copy of the proposed budget shall be on file
and available to the public during office hours at the office of the clerk for
a period of not less than one week prior to such public hearing.
Section 9.4. Same -- Adoption.
   The council shall, not later than the second regular meeting in June, adopt
a budget for the ensuing fiscal year and make appropriations therefor. After
consideration of probable other revenues, determine and declare the amount of
money necessary to be raised by property taxation, which amount shall not be
greater than otherwise limited in this Charter or by general law.
Section 9.5. Same -- Capital improvement bonds.
   Any capital improvement items contained in the budget, upon the vote of not
less than four city councilmen, may be financed by the issuance of bonds as a
part of the budget system, provided, that the amount of such bonds together
with the taxes levied for the same year shall not exceed the limit of taxation
authorized by law.
Section 9.6. Same -- Appropriations; charging of expenditures; interim
accounting; end of year surplus.
   (a)   Except for purposes which are to be financed by the issuance of bonds
or by special assessment, or for other purposes not chargeable to a budget
appropriation, no money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city except in
accordance with an appropriation thereof for such specific purposes, nor shall
any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred without an
appropriation covering all payments which will be due under such obligation in
the current fiscal year. The council may transfer any unencumbered
appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from one account, department,
fund or agency to another.
   (b)   The council may make additional appropriations during the fiscal year
for unanticipated expenditures required by the city, but such additional
appropriations shall not exceed the amount by which actual and anticipated
revenues of the year are exceeding the revenues as estimated in the budget,
unless the appropriations are necessary to relieve an emergency endangering the
public health, peace or safety.
   (c)   Except in those cases where there is no other logical account to which
expenditures can be charged, expenditures shall not be charged directly to the
contingency fund (or other similar fund). Instead, the necessary part of the
appropriation from the contingency fund (or other similar fund) shall be
transferred to the logical account, and the expenditure charged to such
account.
   (d)   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and
more often if required by the council, the city manager shall submit to the
council data showing the relation between the estimated and actual revenues and
expenditures to date; and if it shall appear that the revenues are less than
anticipated, the council may reduce appropriations, except amounts required for
debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep
expenditures within the revenues.
   (e)   The balance in any budget appropriation which has not been encumbered
at the end of the fiscal year shall, subject to restrictions imposed or
permitted by law, revert to the general fund.
Section 9.7. Depository.
   The council shall designate the depository or depositories for city funds
and shall provide for the regular deposit of all city moneys.
Section 9.8. Investments.
   Idle moneys may be invested in obligations issued by this city, in
obligations of the United States or any state thereof, in other municipal
bonds, or such bonds, debentures, mortgages or other highly rated securities or
investments as the council may determine.
Section 9.9. Independent audit and report.
   An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the city government at
least annually and more frequently if deemed necessary by the council. Such
audit shall be made by certified public accountants. The auditor's report of
the city's business shall be made available to the public in such form as will
disclose pertinent facts concerning the activities and finances of the city
government.
Section 9.10. Withdrawal of funds.
   All funds drawn from the treasury shall be drawn pursuant to the authority
and appropriation of the council and upon checks signed by an officer of the
city to be designated by resolution of the council. Each such check shall
specify the fund or funds from which it is payable and shall be paid from no
other fund or funds.
CHAPTER X.
Taxation.
Section 10.1. Power of city; maximum ad valorem levy; procedure for levy and
collection.
   The city shall have the power to assess taxes and to levy and collect rents,
tolls, and excises. Exclusive of any levies authorized by law to be made beyond
charter tax rate limitations, the annual ad valorem tax levy shall not exceed 2
percent of the assessed value of all real and personal property in the city.
The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same as
for state, county and school purposes under the general law. Except as
otherwise provided by this Charter, city taxes shall be assessed, levied,
collected, and returned in the manner provided by statute. No exemptions from
taxation shall be allowed except as expressly required or permitted by law.
Section 10.2. Tax status day.
   Subject to the exceptions provided or permitted by law, the taxable status
of persons and property shall be determined as the thirty-first day of
December, or such other day as may subsequently be required by law, which shall
be deemed the tax day.
Section 10.3. Assessment roll.
   Between tax day and the first meeting of the board of review in each year,
the assessor shall make and complete an assessment roll in the manner and form
provided in the general tax law.
Section 10.4. Board of review -- Composition; secretary; chairman; quorum.
   The Board of Review is appointed by Council and shall consist of three
members for a term of six years, one alternating every other odd year in
November. The board shall annually, on the first Monday in March, select its
own chairman and secretary for the ensuing year. A majority of the members of
the board shall constitute a quorum.
(Charter Amend. Res. of 7-18-11; Charter Amend. Res. of 8-5-19)
Section 10.5. Same -- Functions and duties.
   The board of review shall have the power to correct or amend the assessment
roll and to increase or decrease any assessment or valuation of taxable
property, may strike therefrom any property wrongfully listed, or add any
property rightfully taxable, either on its own motion or at the request of any
person. Any person considering himself aggrieved by reason of any assessment
may complain thereof either verbally or in writing to the board. The board may
establish reasonable regulations for the conduct of its hearings, require the
filing of a brief written memorandum of the arguments by those appealing to it,
require any appellant to appear in person or in writing and otherwise provide
for expediting its work. The concurrence of a majority of the membership of the
board shall be necessary to decide any question. The assessor shall make any
changes, additions, or corrections to the roll directed by the board of review.
Thereupon the board shall complete and adopt the roll and a majority thereof
shall endorse it as provided by law. When so endorsed, the roll shall be
conclusively presumed by all courts to be valid and shall not be set aside
except for causes mentioned in the general laws. The omission of the
endorsement or any other formality herein prescribed shall not affect the
validity of the roll. A summary report of the assessment roll shall be
delivered to the council by the assessor immediately thereafter.
Section 10.6. Same -- Notice of meeting.
   Notice of the time of the sessions of the board of review shall be published
by the assessor in a newspaper having general circulation in the city at least
one week prior to each session of the board.
Section 10.7. Same -- Meetings; examination of persons appearing.
   The board of review shall meet in two sessions in each year at such place as
shall be designated by the council. The first session of the board shall
convene on the first Monday in March of each year and shall continue in session
for three days and as much longer as may be necessary for the purpose of
considering and correcting the roll. In each case where the assessed value is
increased or any property added to the rolls by the board, the secretary of the
board shall give notice to the owners thereof according to the last assessment
roll of the city by first class mail placed in the post office not later than
midnight of the last day of the first session. The second session of the board
shall convene on the third Monday of March of each year and shall continue in
session for one day and as much longer as may be necessary. The board shall
remain in session during such hours as the council may designate.
   The board of review may examine under oath any person appearing before it
respecting the assessment of property on the assessment roll. Any member of the
board may administer the oath.
Section 10.8. Assessment of taxes.
   The assessor shall take the roll, thus completed and adopted, and prepare a
"City Tax Roll" by spreading thereon rateably to each person or property
assessed the funds required to be raised by property taxation by the terms of
the annual appropriation resolution adopted by the city council or by the terms
of other valid procedures.
Section 10.9. Warrant commanding collection by treasurer.
   Upon delivering the city tax roll to the treasurer, the assessor shall annex
thereto a warrant over the signatures of the assessor and mayor, with the seal
of the city affixed, commanding the treasurer to collect from the several
persons named in the roll the several sums mentioned therein and enforce
payment as provided herein or by general law.
Section 10.10. Liens.
   All taxes thus assessed shall become a debt due the city as provided by
general law and, as of the first day of July of the year assessment, the said
taxes with any applicable charges, fees or penalties shall become a lien,
paramount to all other claims, encumbrances or liens, upon the property against
which they are assessed until paid.
Section 10.11. Statement to taxpayers.
   Upon receipt of the city tax roll, the treasurer shall proceed to collect
the taxes. He shall prepare and mail to each taxpayer, at his last known
address on the tax roll, a statement or billing showing the description of the
property, the assessed or equalized valuation, and the tax payable, but the
failure to send or receive such statement shall not prejudice the validity of
the tax or the right and duty to collect or enforce payment thereof.
Section 10.12. Collection of city taxes.
   The city taxes provided for by this Chapter shall be assessed and levied on
the first day of July in each year, shall become payable on that date, and
shall be collected on or before the 10th day of August in each year and on all
taxes voluntarily paid before the 10th day of August in each year no collection
fee shall be charged, but thereafter a collection fee of four percent (4%)
shall be charged and be paid into the general fund of the city. The council
may, by ordinance, establish a system for the installment collection of said
taxes extending not more than one (1) year and provide for the collection of
reasonable interest or collection fees thereon and of penalties for the late
payment thereof.
Section 10.13. State, county and school taxes.
   The assessor shall prepare a separate assessment roll for the collection of
taxes apportioned to this city for state, county and school purposes, but it
shall not be necessary to make a new or different assessment therefor. After
the funds to be raised have been spread and levied thereon, said assessor shall
deliver the same, to be known as the "County and School Tax Roll" to the
treasurer of the city with the warrant commanding the collection thereof. The
treasurer shall proceed to collect the taxes. A statement shall be mailed on
the first day of December in each year. On all the taxes paid voluntarily on or
before February 14th of the succeeding year, the treasurer shall add one
percent (1%) for collection fees, and upon all taxes paid after February 14th
or such other day as may be fixed by the laws of the state, he shall add four
percent (4%), which percentages, when collected, shall be paid into the general
fund of the city, for the use of the city.
Section 10.14. Failure to pay personal property tax.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall neglect or refuse to pay any
personal property tax assessed to him or them, the treasurer shall collect the
same by seizing the personal property of such person, firm or corporation to an
amount sufficient to pay such tax, fees and charges for subsequent sale,
wherever the same may be found in the state, and from such seizure no property
shall be exempt. He may sell the property seized for an amount sufficient to
pay the taxes and all charges in accordance with general law. In the
alternative, the treasurer may sue therefor the person, firm or corporation to
whom it is assessed.
Section 10.15. Acceleration of due date for personal property taxes.
   Whenever the proper conditions exist, the treasurer shall accelerate the
date on which personal property taxes shall be collected, as provided by
general law.
Section 10.16. Failure to pay real estate taxes.
   All city taxes on real property remaining uncollected by the treasurer on
October 1st and March 1st, following the date when said roll was received by
him, or one (1) year thereafter in case an installment collection ordinance
applies thereto, shall be returned to the county treasurer in the manner
provided by statute for returns by township treasurers for uncollected county
and school taxes. Such returns shall include all the additional assessments,
charges and fees hereinbefore provided, which shall be added to the amount
assessed in said tax roll against each property or person. The taxes thus
returned shall be collected in the same manner as other taxes are collected
under the statute, and shall be and remain a lien upon the property until paid.
Section 10.17. Inequitable assessment or tax.
   If it shall be found, at any time, that any property has been subjected to a
substantially inequitable assessment or tax, as by reason of errors in
computations, decimal misplacement, double entries, and the like, so that the
same amounts to a constructive fraud upon the taxpayer, and if the city
attorney shall prepare and file a written opinion indicating that, under
current statutes and case law, relief would be granted by a court of competent
jurisdiction, then the council may so determine and declare by resolution
without requiring the commencement of court proceedings and any necessary
adjustment may be taken from the general fund of the city.
CHAPTER XI.
Special Assessments.
Section 11.1. Power of council to assess.
   (a)   The council shall have power to determine, with or without a petition
therefore, that the whole or any part of the expense of any public improvement
or repair shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the parcels or property
especially benefited and so declare by resolution. Such resolution shall state
the estimated cost of the improvement, what portion of the cost shall be paid
by special assessment, what portion, if any, shall be a general obligation of
the city, the number of installments in which assessment may be paid, the
interest to be charged, and designate the districts or land and premises upon
which special assessment shall be levied.
   (b)   No such improvement shall be made if the owners of more than two-
thirds of the property to be assessed shall object thereto in writing, but if
the council shall determine and declare by a resolution unanimously adopted
that the proposed improvement is immediately necessary for the public health,
welfare and safety, such improvement may be made, and such special assessment
may be levied, therefor, notwithstanding such objections thereto. The whole
amount to be levied upon the premises subject to special assessment shall not
be limited by the assessed valuation of the property subject to such special
assessment.
Section 11.2. Procedure ordinance.
   The council shall prescribe by general ordinance the complete special
assessment procedure to be used, including the preparing of plans and
specifications, estimated costs, the preparation, hearing and correction of the
special assessment roll, the collection of special assessments, and the
assessment of single lots or parcels. Said ordinance shall provide for a public
hearing by the council on the necessity of making such public improvement, and
shall provide for a public hearing by the council on the apportionment of the
roll, as well as any other matters concerning the making of improvements by the
special assessment method. It shall authorize additional assessments if the
prior assessment proves insufficient to pay for the improvement and costs
incident thereto or in case of invalidity in whole or in part, and it shall
also provide for the refund of excessive assessment but if the excess is less
than 5% of the total cost it may be placed in the general fund of the city.
Section 11.3. Assessment lien.
   From the date of confirmation of any assessment or reassessment roll the
same shall constitute a lien upon the respective lots of premises assessed and
shall also be a charge against the person to whom assessed until paid and, in
case of delinquency, may be enforced by addition to any later return to the
county treasurer of regular taxes or by suit against such person.
Section 11.4. Contest of assessment.
   No suit or action of any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the
purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any special assessment or
reassessment (a) unless, within 30 days after the confirmation of the special
assessment roll, written notice is given to the city clerk for attention of the
council indicating an intention to file such suit or action and stating the
grounds on which it is claimed such assessment is illegal and (b) unless such
suit or action shall be commenced within sixty (60) days after the confirmation
of the roll. If the city attorney submits a written opinion finding said roll
illegal, in whole or in part, the council may revoke its confirmation, correct
the illegality if possible and reconfirm the same, provided that no property
which is not involved in the illegality shall be assessed more than was imposed
upon the original confirmation without further notice and hearing thereon.
CHAPTER XII.
Borrowing.
Section 12.1. General power.
   Subject to the applicable provisions of law the city may borrow money for
any purpose within the scope of its powers, and may issue bonds or other
evidence of indebtedness therefore. Such bonds or other evidence of
indebtedness shall include, but not be limited to:
   (a)   General obligation bonds which pledge the full faith and credit of the
city for payment thereof.
   (b)   Special assessment bonds which are issued in anticipation of the
payment of special assessments for public improvements in a special assessment
district or combination thereof, which bonds may be either an obligation solely
of the special assessment district or districts, or both an obligation of such
district and a general obligation of the city.
   (c)   Revenue bonds as authorized by law.
   (d)   Mortgage bonds for the acquiring, owning, purchasing, constructing,
improving or operating of any public utility which the city is authorized by
law to finance in this manner, or for such other purposes as may be authorized
by law.
   (e)   Tax anticipation notes as authorized by law.
   (f)   Calamity bonds issued in case of fire, flood, or other calamity as
authorized by law.
   (g)   Bonds for the city's share of the cost of local improvements, which
bonds may be issued as a part of, or independently of any issue of special
assessment bonds which are issued for the same improvement or improvements.
   (h)   Bonds for refunding the indebtedness of the city.
   (i)   Budget bonds as authorized elsewhere herein.
   (j)   Time-purchase contracts as authorized elsewhere herein, to the extent
that the same are considered to be debts.
   (k)   Bonds issued in anticipation of future payments from the motor vehicle
highway fund or any other fund of the state which the city may be permitted by
law to pledge for the payment of principal and interest thereof.
Section 12.2. Limitation.
   The net bonded indebtedness of the city, incurred for all public purposes
shall not at any time exceed the limit provided by law. No bonds shall be sold
to obtain funds for any purpose or purposes other than that for which they were
specifically authorized.
Section 12.3. Use of borrowed funds.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement of the purpose for which the same is issued and no officer of the
city shall use the proceeds thereof for any other purpose, except that whenever
the proceeds of any bond issue, or a part thereof, remain unexpended and
unencumbered for the purpose for which said bond issue was made, the council
may authorize the use of such unexpended and unencumbered funds subject to the
approval of the Michigan Municipal Finance Commission where required:
   (a)   For an additional extension or improvement of facility or project for
which the bond issue was made.
   (b)   For the retirement of such bond issue.
   (c)   If such bond issue has been fully retired or funds are segregated
which are adequate for such purpose, then for the retirement of other bonds or
obligations of the city.
   (d)   If there is no other indebtedness, or funds are segregated which are
adequate for such purpose, then for such other purposes as may be permitted by
law.
Section 12.4. Separation of special assessment collections; payment of
deficiency in special assessment fund.
   All collections on each special assessment roll or combination of rolls, in
anticipation of which bonds have been issued, shall be set apart in a separate
fund (but not necessarily a separate bank account) and shall be used for the
purpose for which levied and for the payment of the principal and interest on
such bonds. If there is any deficiency in a special assessment fund to meet the
payment of the principal or interest to be paid therefrom, money shall be
advanced from the general fund of the city to meet such deficiency and shall be
replaced in the general fund when the special assessment fund shall be
sufficient therefor.
Section 12.5. Bond interest rates.
   No bond or other evidence of indebtedness of the city shall bear interest at
a rate exceeding the maximum rate permitted by law.
Section 12.6. Execution of bonds.
   All bonds issued by the city shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned
by the city clerk, and shall bear the corporate seal of the city. Said
signatures may be by facsimile if permitted by law. Any attached coupons may be
signed with the facsimile signature of the city clerk.
Section 12.7. Records of bonds and other evidence of indebtedness;
cancellation.
   The treasurer shall keep a detailed record of all bonds and other evidence
of indebtedness. Upon payment of bonds or other evidence of indebtedness the
same shall be cancelled.
CHAPTER XIII.
Contracts and Purchases.
Section 13.1. Establishment of procedures by ordinance; city manager
responsible for purchases; authority; competitive prices.
   Purchasing and contracting procedures, including bidding procedure when it
will serve the best interest of the city shall be established by ordinance. The
city manager shall be responsible for purchasing and a system of centralized
purchasing shall be developed and maintained. The authority to contract in
behalf of the city is vested in the council, provided that the city manager
shall have the power to bind the city as to routine or operational items. No
materials, supplies or public improvements costing more than $1,000 shall be
purchased or contracted for except after competitive prices shall have been
obtained or requested, except in case of emergency. The council shall have the
right to reject any and all bids for work or for the furnishing of materials or
supplies to the city. No contract shall be made with any person, firm or
corporation in default to the city.
Section 13.2. Funds to finance public improvements.
   The city may establish and maintain funds, including revolving funds, for
special assessment projects or other improvements, for the purpose of
accumulating moneys to be used for financing, making, acquiring, extending,
altering, or repairing public improvements. Moneys so accumulated may be
transferred, encumbered or otherwise disposed of only for the purpose for which
accumulated unless otherwise determined and declared by formal resolution of
the council and then only for the purpose of making some other public
improvement.
Section 13.3. Installment contracts.
   The city may enter into installment contracts for the purchase of property
or capital equipment. Each such contract shall not extend over a period greater
than ten (10) years nor shall the total amounts of principal payment under all
such contracts exceed a sum permitted by law. Each such deferred payment shall
be included in the budget for the year in which each respective installment is
payable.
CHAPTER XIV.
Utilities, Franchises and Permits.
Section 14.1. General powers.
   The city shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by law to acquire, construct, own, operate, improve, enlarge, extend,
repair, maintain, encumber, convey, dispose of or sell, either within or
without its corporate limits, public utilities, including, but not by the way
of limitation, aeronautical facilities, cemeteries, hospitals and public
utilities for treating and supplying water and for supplying light, heat,
power, gas, sewage treatment, garbage disposal, public transportation and
facilities for the storage and parking of vehicles; and also to sell and
deliver the products or services thereof, both within and without its corporate
limits, subject to the limitations herein contained. The power to supply said
utility services, as herein possessed and reserved, shall include the power to
extract, process, manufacture, transport or purchase the same from others.
Section 14.2. Administration of municipally owned and operated utilities.
   All municipally owned and operated utilities shall be administered as a
regular department of the city government under the management and supervision
of the city manager.
Section 14.3. Utility rates.
   The council shall have power to fix such just and reasonable rates as may be
deemed advisable for supplying the inhabitants of the city and others with such
public utility services as the city may provide. There shall be no
discrimination in such rates within any classification of users thereof, nor
shall free service be permitted, but higher rates may be charged outside the
corporate limits of the city.
Section 14.4. Ordinances for collection of public utility charges.
   The council shall provide by ordinance for the collection of all public
utility charges of the city. The ordinance shall provide at least:
   (a)   That the city shall have as security for the collection of such
utility charges a lien upon the real property supplied by such utility. The
lien shall become effective immediately upon the supplying of the utility
service and shall be enforced in the manner provided in the ordinance.
   (b)   The terms and conditions under which utility services may be
discontinued in case of delinquency in paying such charges.
   (c)   That suit may be instituted by the city before a competent tribunal
for the collection of such charges.
   (d)   With respect to the collection of charges for utilities, the city
shall have all the powers granted to cities by law.
Section 14.5. Disposal of utility plants and property.
   Unless approved by the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the electors
voting thereon at a regular or special election, the city shall not sell,
exchange, lease or in any way dispose of any property, easements, equipment,
privilege or asset belonging to and appertaining to any municipally owned
public utility which is needed to continue operating such utility. All
contracts, negotiations, licenses, grants, leases or other forms of transfer in
violation of this section shall be void and of no effect as against the city.
   The restrictions of this section shall not apply to the sale or exchange of
any articles of machinery or equipment of any city owned public utility which
are worn out or useless or which have been, or could with advantage to the
service, be replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment, to the leasing
of property not necessary for the operation of the utility, or to the exchange
of property or easements for other needed property or easements. The provisions
of this section shall not extend to the vacation or abandonment of streets, as
provided by the statute.
Section 14.6. Accounts and finances of public utility.
   Separate accounts shall be kept for each public utility owned and operated
by the city. Such accounts shall be classified and made in accordance with
generally accepted municipal utility accounting practice. Charges for all
services furnished to, or rendered by, other city departments or agencies shall
be recorded. An annual report shall be prepared to show fairly the financial
position of the utility and the results of its operations which report shall be
on file in the office of the clerk for inspection.
Section 14.7. Public utility franchises -- Granting.
   (a)   Public utility franchises and all renewals, and extensions thereof and
amendments thereto shall be granted only by ordinance. No franchise shall be
granted for a longer period than thirty (30) years.
   (b)   No franchise ordinance which is not subject to revocation at the will
of the council shall be enacted nor become operative until the same shall have
first been referred to the people at a regular or special election and received
the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the electors voting thereon. No such
franchise ordinance shall be approved by the council for referral to the
electorate before thirty (30) days after application therefore has been filed
with the council nor until a public hearing has been held thereon, nor until
the grantee named therein has filed with the clerk his unconditional acceptance
of all the terms of such franchise. No special election for such purpose shall
be ordered unless the expense of holding such election, as determined by the
council, shall have been first paid to the treasurer by the grantee.
   (c)   A franchise ordinance, or renewal or extension thereof, or amendment
thereto, which is subject to revocation at the will of the council may be
enacted by the council without referral to the voters, but shall not be enacted
unless it shall have been complete in the form in which it is finally enacted
and shall have so been on file in the office of the clerk for public inspection
for at least four weeks after publication of a notice that such ordinance is on
file.
Section 14.8. Same -- Conditions.
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this Charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not shall be subject to
the following rights of the city, but this enumeration shall not be exclusive
or impair the right of the council to insert in such franchise any provision
within the power of the city to impose or require:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, non-use, or failure to comply with the
provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require adequate extension of plant and service and maintenance
thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire length
thereof;
   (e)   To use, control, and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges
and other public places and the space above and beneath them;
   (f)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the council
to be conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation to the public.
Section 14.9. Same -- Provisions for rates, fares and charges.
   All public utility franchises shall make provision therein for fixing rates,
fares and charges, and may provide for readjustments thereof at periodic
intervals. The value of the property of the utility used as a basis for fixing
such rates, fares and charges shall in no event include a value predicted upon
the franchise, goodwill or prospective profits.
Section 14.10. Use of public places by utilities.
   Every public utility shall pay such part of the cost of improvement or
maintenance of streets, alleys, bridges and other public places as shall arise
from its use thereof and shall protect and save the city harmless from all
damages arising from said use. Every such public utility may be required by the
city to permit joint use of its property and appurtenances located in the
streets, alleys and other public places of the city by the city and other
utilities insofar as such joint use may be reasonable practicable, and upon
payment of reasonable rental therefor. In the absence of agreement and upon
application by any public utility, the council shall provide for arbitration of
the terms and conditions of such joint use and the compensation to be paid
therefor.
Section 14.11. Temporary permits.
   Temporary permits for public utilities, revocable at any time at the will of
the council, may be granted by the council by resolution on such terms and
conditions as it shall determine, provided that such permits shall in no event
be construed to be franchises or amendments to franchises. All temporary
permits shall be subject to the rights of the city to make independent audit
and examination of accounts at any time and to require reports annually or at
more frequent intervals as prescribed by resolution of the council. When the
council deems it in the public interest, such permits may be exclusive.
Section 14.12. Existing franchises and permits.
   All franchises and permits to which the City of Fremont is a party when this
Charter becomes effective shall remain in full force and effect.
CHAPTER XV.
Miscellaneous.
Section 15.1. Liability of city; procedure for filing claim.
   The city shall not be liable to pay damages for injuries which arise out of
governmental functions and shall have all the immunities from claims for
damages for injury to persons or property as may be permitted by law. The
procedures in regard to filing of claims and disposition of same shall be as
permitted by law.
Section 15.2. Records.
   All records of the city shall be public, shall be kept in city offices
except when required for official reasons or for purpose of safe keeping to be
elsewhere and shall be available for inspection at all reasonable times.
Section 15.3. Estoppel against city.
   No estoppel may be created against the city.
Section 15.4. Processes against city.
   All processes against the city shall run against the city in the corporate
name thereof, and may be served by leaving a true copy with the mayor or clerk.
Section 15.5. Trusts for municipal purposes.
   All trusts established for any municipal purpose shall be used and contained
in accordance with the terms of such trust subject to the cy pres doctrine. The
council may in its discretion receive and hold any property in trust for any
municipal purpose and shall apply the same to the execution of such trust and
for no other purposes, except in cases where the cy pres doctrine shall apply.
Section 15.6. Quorum generally.
   Except as provided otherwise in this Charter, a quorum of any board or
commission created by or pursuant to this Charter shall be a majority of the
members of such board or commission in office at the time, but not less than
two members.
Section 15.7. Sundays and holidays.
   Whenever the date fixed by this Charter for the doing or completion of any
act falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, such act shall be done or completed on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or legal holiday.
Section 15.8. Chapter, section and subsection headings of Charter.
   The chapter, section and subsection headings used in this Charter are for
convenience only, and shall not be considered as part of the Charter.
Section 15.9. Amendment of Charter.
   This Charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided by statute.
Should two or more amendments adopted at the same election have conflicting
provisions, the one receiving the largest affirmative vote shall prevail as to
those provisions.
Section 15.10. Severability of Charter provisions.
   If any provision, section, article or clause of this Charter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be found to be invalid
by a court, such invalidity shall not affect any remaining portion or
application, of the Charter which can be given effect without the invalid
portion or application, provided such remaining portions or applications are
not determined by the court to be inoperable and to this end this Charter is
declared to be severable.
Section 15.11. Penalties for misconduct in office.
   Any officer of the city found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
any act declared by this Charter to constitute misconduct in office may be
punished by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars or imprisonment for
not to exceed ninety days, or both, in the discretion of the court. The
punishment provided in this section shall be in addition to that of having the
office declared vacant as provided in this Charter.
Section 15.12. Definitions generally.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context:
   (a)   All words used in this Charter indicating the present tense shall not
be limited to the time of the adoption of this Charter, but shall extend to and
include the time of the happening of any event or requirement for which
provision is made herein.
   (b)   The singular number shall include the plural, the plural number shall
include the singular and the masculine gender shall extend to and include the
feminine gender and the neuter.
   (c)   The word "person" may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate, and to partnerships as well as to individuals.
   (d)   The word "printed" and "printing" shall include reproductions by
printing, engraving, stencil duplicating, lithographing or any similar method.
   (e)   Except in reference to signatures, the words "written" and "in
writing" shall include printing and typewriting.
   (f)   The word "officer" shall include the mayor and other members of the
council, the administrative officers, members of city boards and commissions
created by or pursuant to this Charter.
   (g)   The word "freeholder" shall include any person and his spouse who is
purchasing property on land contract.
   (h)   The word "default" shall include being delinquent in taxes.
   (i)   The word "statute" shall denote the Public Acts of the State of
Michigan in effect at the time the provision of the Charter containing the word
"statute" is to be applied.
   (j)   All references to specific Public Acts of the State of Michigan shall
be to such acts as are in effect at the time the reference to such act is to be
applied.
   (k)   The words "law" or "general laws of the state" shall denote the
Constitution and the Public Acts of the State of Michigan in effect at the time
the provision of the Charter containing the words "law" or "general laws of the
state" is to be applied, and applicable common law.
   (l)   All reference to section numbers shall refer to section numbers of
this Charter.
   (m)   The word "city" shall mean the City of Fremont.
   (n)   The word "council" shall mean the council of the City of Fremont.
Section 15.13. Definition of publication and mailing of notices.
   The requirement contained in this Charter for the publishing or publication
of notices, ordinances or proceedings shall be met by publishing at least once
an appropriate insertion in a newspaper published in the English language for
the dissemination of news of a general character, which newspaper shall have
had a general circulation at regular intervals in the city for at least one
year immediately preceding the time it is used for such publication purposes.
The affidavit of the printer or publisher of such newspaper, or of his foreman
or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice, ordinance or
proceeding taken from the paper in which it was published and specifying the
time of publication, shall be prima facie evidence of such publication.
   In any case in which this Charter requires the mailing of notices, the
affidavit of the officer or employee responsible for such mailing that such
notice was mailed shall be prima facie evidence of such mailing.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
(Commencing with Supplement No. 8)
   This table shows the disposition of Resolutions amending the Charter,
beginning with Supplement No. 8.
Adoption      Approved               Disposition
Date         Date      Section   Chapter   Section
5-07-90      8-7-90      2      IV      4.5
5-07-90      8-7-90      2      V      5.13
7-18-11      11-8-11   -      X      10.4
8-5-19       11-5-19   -      X      10.4
PART II.
THE CODE.
CHAPTER 1.
GENERAL PROVISIONS.
§ 1-1.   How Code designated and cited.
§ 1-2.   Definitions and rules of construction.
§ 1-3.   Catchlines of sections, etc.
§ 1-4.   Effect of repeal.
§ 1-5.   Severability of parts of Code.
§ 1-6.   General penalty; continuing violations.
Sec. 1-1. How Code designated and cited.
   The ordinances embraced in this chapter and the following chapters and
sections shall constitute and be designated “The Code of the City of Fremont,
Michigan,” and may be so cited. The Code may also be cited as “Fremont City
Code.”
For charter provision requiring codification, see Char., 8.3.
For state law as to power of city to codify, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b.
Sec. 1-2. Definitions and rules of construction.
   In the construction of this Code, and other ordinances of the city, the
following rules shall be observed, unless such interpretation and construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council:
   Charter. The Charter of the City of Fremont.
   City. The City of Fremont.
   City council. The word “council” or the words “city council” mean the
legislative body of the City of Fremont.
   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done, as provided
in this Code or in any order issued pursuant to this Code, when expressed in
days, shall be computed as prescribed by state statute.
   County. The word “county” means the County of Newaygo.
   Gender. Words importing masculine gender shall apply to females and to
firms, associations, partnerships and corporations.
   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three or
more public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it is
otherwise expressly declared in the Code section, ordinance or resolution
granting the authority.
   Month. The word “month” means a calendar month.
   Number. Words in either the singular or plural numbers shall include either
or both numbers and may apply in any instance to a particular person or
persons.
   Oath; affirmation; sworn; affirmed. The word “oath” shall be construed to
include the word “affirmation” in all cases where by law an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath; and in like cases the word “sworn” shall be construed
to include the word “affirmed.”
   Officers. The several officers’ titles mean such officers of the city.
   Owner. The word “owner,” applied to a building or land, shall include any
part owner, land contract vendee, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in
partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part
of such building or land.
   Person. The word “person” includes individuals, firms, joint adventures,
partnerships, corporations, clubs and all associations or organizations of
natural persons, either incorporated or unincorporated, howsoever operating or
named, and whether acting by themselves or by a servant, agent or fiduciary,
and includes all legal representatives, heirs, successors and assigns thereof.
   Preceding; following. The words “preceding” and “following” mean next before
and next after, respectively.
   Property. The word “property” includes real and personal property.
   Public place. The term “public place” means any street, alley, park,
cemetery, public building, any place of business or assembly, parking lot,
parking area or any other premises open to the public or frequented by the
public, whether publicly or privately owned.
   Seal. In all cases in which the seal of any court or public office shall be
required to be affixed to any paper issuing from such court or office, the word
“seal” shall be construed to mean the impression of such seal on such paper
alone, as well as the impression of such seal affixed thereto by means of a
wafer or wax.
   Shall; may. The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive.
   Signature; subscription. The words “signature” and “subscription” include a
mark when the person cannot write.
   State. The State of Michigan.
   Sundays; legal holidays. Whenever any act required to be done pursuant to
the provisions of this Code or any ordinance falls on a Sunday or legal
holiday, that act shall be performed on the next succeeding business day.
   Tense. Words used in the present or past tense shall be construed as
including the future as well as the present or past.
   Time. Whenever time is referred to, it means Eastern Standard Time or the
time officially in force in the city.
   Week. The word “week” means seven days.
   Written; in writing. The words “written” or “in writing” may include any
form or reproduction or expression of language.
   Year. The word “year” means a calendar year. The word “year” shall be
equivalent to the words “year of our Lord.”
For charter provisions as to rules of construction and definitions, see Char.,
15.7, 15.12, 15.13.
For state law as to rules of construction for statutes, see M.C.L.A. §§ 8.3 et
seq.
Sec. 1-3. Catchlines of sections, etc.
   The key words used as catchlines for chapters, articles, divisions, sections
and subsections are inserted for convenience and to facilitate the use of the
same. Such words shall not be construed to limit or affect the meaning of any
of the provisions of this Code.
For similar charter provision as to catchlines of charter sections, see Char.,
15.8.
For similar state law, see M.C.L.A. § 8.4b.
Sec. 1-4. Effect of repeal.
   The repeal of any provision of this Code or other ordinance or part thereof
shall not release or relinquish any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred
under such provision of this Code or ordinance or any part thereof, unless the
repealing ordinance shall so expressly provide, and such provision of this Code
or ordinance and part thereof shall be treated as still remaining in force for
the purpose of instituting or sustaining any proper action or prosecution for
the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture or liability.
   Whenever any provision of this Code or any ordinance or any part thereof is
repealed by a subsequent ordinance, such provision of this Code or ordinance or
any part thereof so repealed shall not be revived by the repeal of such
subsequent repealing ordinance.
For charter provision as to repeal procedure, see Char., 8.3.
For similar state law, see M.C.L.A. §§ 8.4, 8.4a.
Sec. 1-5. Severability of parts of Code.
   If any part of this Code or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance shall be found to be invalid by any court, such invalidity shall
not affect the remaining parts or applications of this Code which can be given
effect without the invalid part or application; provided, that such remaining
parts are not determined by the court to be inoperable, and to this end this
Code is declared to be severable.
For similar charter provision as to severability of parts of Charter, see
Char., 15.10.
For similar state law as to statutes, see M.C.L.A. § 8.5.
Sec. 1-6. General penalty; continuing violations.
   Whenever in this Code or in any other ordinance of the city, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act
is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific
penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code
or any other ordinance of the city shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
five hundred dollars, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding ninety days or
by both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. Such
imprisonment may be either in the city jail or the county jail, or in any
workhouse in the state which is authorized by law to receive prisoners from the
city.
   Except where otherwise provided, every day any violation of this Code or any
other ordinance of the city shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   For charter provision as to penalty for violation of an ordinance, see
Char., 8.5.
For civil infractions, citations and penalties, see Ch. 5.1
For state law as to maximum penalty city may impose, see M.C.L.A. § 117.4i(k).
CHAPTER 2.
ADMINISTRATION
*
   Article I. Unemployment compensation
§§ 2-1—2-18   Repealed.
   Article IA. Officers and Employees Generally
§§ 2-19, 2-20.   Reserved.
§ 2-21.   Establishment and duties of certain city offices.
   Article II. Local Officers’ Compensation Commission
§
2-22.      Local officers’ compensation commission—Creation; composition;
qualifications; terms of office; time of appointment; vacancies; eligibility
restriction.
§
2-23.      Determination of salaries; rejection by council; effective date;
existing salary; expenses.
§
2-24.      Meetings and time of determination; quorum, chairman; session days;
compensation and expenses.
§
2-25.      Change of procedure, time and method; referendum or other petition;
signatures of electors; conduct of election; effectiveness of determination.
   Article III. City Planning
§ 2-26.     Establishment of Fremont Planning Commission.
§ 2-272-27.3.   Repealed.
§ 2-28.     Commission—Adoption of master plan; powers and duties generally.
§ 2-29.     Establishment of the Fremont Community Joint Planning Commission.
   Article IV. Library Board – Repealed.
   Article V. Airport Commission
§§ 2-31—2-34. Repealed.
   Article VI. Police
§ 2-35.   Employment standards—Adoption.
§ 2-36.   Same—To be construed as minimum requirements.
   Article VII. Reserved
§§ 2-37—2-44.   Reserved.
   Article VIII. Tax Exemption Application Administration Fees
§ 2-45.   Purpose.
§ 2-46.   Applicability.
§ 2-47.   Definitions.
§ 2-48   Fee schedule.
§ 2-49.   Fees nonrefundable; disposition of funds collected.
   Article IX. Contracts and Purchases
§ 2-50.   Purpose.
§ 2-51.   Application.
§ 2-52.   Definitions.
§ 2-53.   Powers and duties of purchasing officer.
§ 2-54.   Small item purchases under $500.00.
§ 2-55.   Purchase of items equal to or over $500.00 but less than $2,500.00.
§ 2-56.   Purchase of items equal to or over $2,500.00 but less than $5,000.00.
§ 2-57.   Purchases of $5,000.00 and over.
§ 2-58.   Purchase orders.
§ 2-59.   Subdividing contracts or purchases.
§ 2-60.   Purchase from petty cash.
§ 2-61.   Sealed bids.
§ 2-62.   Criteria for responsible bidders.
§ 2-63.   Contracts not awarded to the lowest bidder.
§ 2-64.   Tie bidders.
§ 2-65.   Local vendors.
§ 2-66.   Bid securities and bonds.
§ 2-67.   Bid opening procedure.
§ 2-68.   Rejection of bids.
§ 2-69.   Bidders in default to the city.
§ 2-70.   Appropriations sufficiency.
§ 2-71.   Emergency purchases.
§ 2-72.   Public improvements.
§ 2-73.   Contracts, power of city council.
§ 2-74.   Refusal to execute contract.
§ 2-75.   Contracts filed with city clerk.
§ 2-76.   Payment to contractor.
§ 2-77.   Extra compensation.
§ 2-78.   Contracts without competitive bidding.
§ 2-79.   Cooperative purchasing.
§ 2-80.   Purchasing service available to other public agencies.
§ 2-81.   Acceptance and inspection of materials.
§ 2-82.   Gifts and rebates prohibited.
   *Cross references—Animal control officer, 3-17—3-19; cemetery
superintendent, 6-5, 6-6; civil defense and disaster, 7-1 et seq; volunteer
fire department, 9-16—9-26; parking violations bureau, 12-18—12-23; powers and
duties of city manager with reference to refuse and garbage, 16-4—16-6; special
assessments for public improvements, 17-1 et seq; administration and
enforcement of zoning ordinance, 22-21.1—22-21.3; zoning board of appeals, 22-
22.1—22.22-12.
Article I. Unemployment Compensation.
Secs. 2-1 to 2-18. Repealed.
Article IA. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY.
Secs. 2-19, 2-20. Reserved for future legislation.
Sec. 2-21. Establishment and Duties of Certain City Offices.
   The following city offices are established and shall have such duties as are
set out in the Charter of the city.
   Assessor.
   Attorney.
   Clerk.
   Council.
   Manager.
   Mayor.
   Tax board of review.
   Treasurer.
For charter provisions as to assessor, see Char., 7.6. As to attorney, see
Char., 7.7. As to clerk, see Char., 7.4. As to council, see Char., 4.1 to 4.8,
6.1 to 6.9. As to manager, see Char., 7.3. As to mayor, see Char., 4.2, 4.4,
4.5, 4.7. As to tax board of review, see Car., 10.4 to 10.7. As to treasurer,
see Char., 7.5. As to officers generally, see Char., 5.1 to 5.17.
Article II. LOCAL OFFICERS’ COMPENSATION COMMISSION.
Sec. 2-22. Local officers’ compensation commission—Creation; composition;
qualifications; terms of office; time of appointment; vacancies; eligibility
restriction.
   A local officers’ compensation commission is created which shall determine
the salaries of the mayor and members of the city council. The commission shall
consist of five (5) members who are registered electors of the city, appointed
by the mayor subject to confirmation by a majority of the members elected and
serving on the city council. The terms of office of members of said commission
shall be five (5) years, except that of the members first appointed, one each
shall be appointed for terms of one (1), two (2), three (3), four (4) and five
(5) years. All first members shall be appointed within thirty (30) days after
the effective date of this article. Thereafter members shall be appointed
before October 1 of the year of appointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term. No member or employee of the legislative,
judicial or executive branch of any level of government or members of the
immediate family of such member or employee shall be eligible to be a member of
the commission. (Ord. No. O-22-01, 1-17-22)
Sec. 2-23. Determination of salaries; rejection by council; effective date;
existing salary; expenses.
   The commission shall determine the salaries of the mayor and councilmen,
which determination shall be the salaries unless the city council, by
resolution adopted by two-thirds (2/3) of the members elected to and serving on
the council, reject them. The determinations of the commission shall be
effective thirty (30) days following their filing with the city clerk unless
rejected by the city council. In case of rejection, the existing salary shall
prevail. Any expense allowance or reimbursement paid to elected officials in
addition to salary shall be for expenses incurred in the course of city
business and accounted for to the city. (Ord. No. O-22-01, 1-17-22)
Sec. 2-24. Meetings and time of determination; quorum, chairman; session days;
compensation and expenses.
   The commission shall meet for not more than fifteen (15) session days per
year, and shall make its determination within forty-five (45) calendar days of
its first meeting. A majority of the members of the commission constitute a
quorum for conducting business of the commission. The commission shall take no
action or make determinations without a concurrence of a majority of the
members appointed and serving on the commission. The commission shall elect a
chairman from among its members. “Session days” means any calendar day on which
the commission meets and a quorum is present. The members of the commission
shall receive no compensation, but they shall be entitled to their actual and
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and shall not
have the power to expend public funds. (Ord. No. O-22-01, 1-17-22)
Sec. 2-25. Change of procedure, time and method; referendum or other petition;
signatures of electors; conduct of election; effectiveness of determination.
   After one year following the effective date of this article, the procedure
for establishing the compensation of elected officials may be changed by
charter amendment or revision.
   Within sixty (60) days after the effective date of this article, a petition
for a referendum on the ordinance adopting this article may be filed in
accordance with the procedures provided in chapter 6 of the Fremont City
Charter by filing a petition with the city clerk containing the signatures of
at least five per cent (5%) of the registered electors of the City of Fremont
on the effective date of this article, in which case the election shall be
conducted in the same manner as an election on the charter amendment. If a
petition for referendum is filed pursuant to the provisions of this section,
any determination of the commission shall not be effective until the ordinance
has been approved by the electors. (Ord. No. O-22-01, 1-17-22)
Article III.  CITY PLANNING.
For state law as to city planning generally, see M.C.L.A. § 125.31.
Sec. 2-26. Establishment of Fremont Planning Commission.
   The Council elects to continue the Planning Commission for the City of
Fremont as authorized by P.A. 33 of 2008, as amended, being the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq. for the purpose of having
planning and zoning in the City of Fremont, to create, organize, enumerate
powers and duties, and to provide the regulation and subdivision of land,
coordinated and harmonious development of the City of Fremont; and to function
in cooperation with other constituted authorities of incorporated and
unincorporated areas within the state where the City of Fremont exists.
   There shall be a City of Fremont Planning Commission, hereinafter referred
to as the Planning Commission with the powers and duties as therein set forth
as hereinafter provided. The Planning Commission shall operate in accordance
with the requirements of the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of
2008, as amended, and as required by this section. This section shall be
officially known and described as the City of Fremont Planning Commission
Ordinance.
   a.   Continuation. The Planning Commission of the City of Fremont, Newaygo
County, Michigan created according to the former Municipal Planning Act (Act
285 of 1931, repealed), is hereby continued and established under the terms and
provisions of the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, as
amended.
   b.   Members, appointment and terms. The membership of the Commission shall
consist of nine (9) members, one (1) of whom shall be a member of the
legislative body to be selected by majority vote of the legislative body to
serve as a member ex-officio. The ex-officio member of the Commission shall
have full voting rights on matters coming before the Commission. The Mayor
shall appoint eight (8) other persons as members of the Commission, subject to
approval of the City Council by majority vote.
   The membership of a Planning Commission shall be representative of important
segments of the community, such as the economic, governmental, educational, and
social development of the City of Fremont, in accordance with the major
interests as they exist in the local unit of government, such as agriculture,
natural resources, recreation, education, public health, government,
transportation, industry and commerce. The membership shall also be
representative of the entire geography of the local unit of government to the
extent practicable.
   Members of the Planning Commission shall be qualified electors of the City
of Fremont, except two (2) of the Planning Commission members may be
individuals who are not qualified electors of the City of Fremont.
   The term of the ex-officio member shall be determined by the City Council
when selecting the ex-officio member but shall not exceed the member’s term of
office as a City Councilmember.
   The term of each of the eight (8) appointed members shall be three (3) years
or until his or her successor takes office except that the respective terms of
two (2) of the members first appointed shall be for one (1) year and three (3)
for two (2) years.
   Each member is eligible to serve four (4) consecutive three (3)-year terms.
Partial terms are considered full terms for purposes of calculating the number
of terms served.
   An appointed member of the Commission (i.e., non-ex-officio members) shall
not hold another municipal office except that one (1) appointed member may be a
member of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   c.   Liaisons. The Commission, in its Bylaws, may name “liaisons” to the
Commission. The purpose of liaisons is to provide certain the City of Fremont
and quasi-City of Fremont officials ability to participate in discussion with
the Commission in addition to speaking in public participation and nothing
else. At a minimum, liaisons shall include:
      1.   Planning Department staff and their agents and consultants
      2.   City of Fremont City Manager
      3.   City of Fremont Attorney
   d.   Training. Appointed members of the Commission may be required to attend
educational programs designed for training members of Michigan planning
commissions if the adopted City of Fremont budget for that fiscal year includes
funds to pay for tuition, registration, and travel expenses for the training.
   e.   Compensation. Appointed members of the Commission may be compensated at
a rate to be determined by separate Resolution adopted by the City Council from
time to time. Ex-officio members shall not receive compensation.
   f.   Powers and duties.
      1.   The Commission shall have their powers and duties as set forth in
P.A. 33 of 2008, as amended, being the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.3801 et seq.; and P.A. 110 of the Public Acts of 2006, as amended, being
the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.).
      2.   The annual creation of a Capital Improvement Program (CIP) shall be
the responsibility of the Fremont City Manager and/or his or her designee with
final approval by the Fremont City Council.
      3.   The Commission shall have authority to apply for and receive grants
from any government agency or the federal government and to receive gifts in
accordance with applicable Michigan laws.
      4.   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the
City Council concerning its operations and the status of planning activities,
including recommendations regarding actions by the City Council related to
planning and development.
   g.   Records. The Commission shall adopt Bylaws for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and
determinations, which records shall be a public record.
   h.   Conflict of interest. The Planning Commission shall define a conflict
of interest in its bylaws. Before casting a vote on a matter on which a member
may reasonably be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member shall
disclose the potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission. The
member is disqualified from participating in the discussion and voting on the
matter, as provided by the Bylaws of the Planning Commission.
   i.   Approval, ratification and reconfirmation. All official actions taken
by all City of Fremont Planning Commissions preceding the Commission created by
this section are hereby approved, ratified and reconfirmed. Any project, review
or process taking place at the effective date of this section shall continue
with the Commission created by this section, subject to the requirements of
this section and shall be deemed a continuation of any previous City of Fremont
Planning Commission.
(Ord. O-11-04, 6-20-11)
For charter provision requiring council to maintain
city planning commission in accordance with
state law, see Char.,
7.8.
For state law as to authority of city to establish a
planning commission with powers and duties
as per state law, see M.C.L.A. § 125.32.
Secs. 2-27 to 2-27.3. Repealed.
Sec. 2-28. Commission—Adoption of Master Plan; Powers and Duties Generally.
   It shall be the function and duty of the planning commission to make and
adopt a master plan for the physical development of the city, as provided by
the act adopted by references in section 2-26. Such planning commission shall
have all the powers and authority and duties prescribed by such act. (7-8-76,
3.)
For state law as to adoption of a master plan, see M.C.L.A. § 125.36.
Sec. 2-29. Establishment of the Fremont Community Joint Planning Commission.
   a.   Formation of the Fremont Community Joint Planning Commission. The City
of Fremont approves the establishment of a joint planning commission pursuant
to Michigan Public Act 226 of 2003, as amended (MCL § 125.131 et seq.) and the
City Charter, Section
7.8 "City Planning Commission," and shall enter into and adhere to the
agreement establishing the Fremont Community Joint Planning Commission among
the City of Fremont, Dayton Township and Sheridan Charter Township regarding
the formation, composition and operation of the Fremont Community Joint
Planning Commission.
   b.   Severability. If any clause, sentence, paragraph or part of this
section shall for any reason be finally adjudged by any court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder of this section, but shall be confined in its
operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph or part thereof directly involved
in the controversy in which such judgment is rendered.
   c.   Repeal. All ordinances or parts of ordinances of the city inconsistent
herewith are hereby repealed so far as they may be inconsistent with the
provisions of this section.
   d.   Saving clause. The adoption of this section by the city shall not be
deemed to vacate the appointments, duties, responsibilities and operation of
the Fremont Planning Commission under statute and law pertaining to home rule
cities currently in effect or as amended until such time as a Joint Master Plan
is approved and a Joint Zoning Ordinance is adopted by all of the legislative
bodies of the participating municipalities who are party to the Fremont
Community Joint Planning Agreement.
   e.   Effective date. This section shall take effect following its adoption
and publication pursuant to the procedures outlined in §9 of Michigan Public
Act 226 of 2003 (MCL § 125.139) and those of the Fremont City Charter.
(Ord. O-06-02, 8-2-06; Ord. O-06-04, 10-16-06)
Article IV. Library Board.
Secs. 2-29 and 2-30. Repealed by Ord. No. O-01-01, adopted January 15, 2001.
Article V. Airport Commission
Secs. 2-31 to 2-34. Repealed by an ordinance adopted 7-7-80.
Article VI. Police
Sec. 2-35. Employment standards-Adoption.
   The minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers as established
and adopted by the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training Council and
amended from time to time are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full
herein.
Sec. 2-36. Same–To be construed as minimum requirements.
   The standards of the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training Council are
recognized as minimum standards and higher standards are recommended by the
training council when qualified applicants are available. (4-3-67, 3)
Article VII. Reserved
*
   *Editor’s note – An ordinance of Oct. 1, 1990, repealed Art. VII in its
entirety. Prior to such repeal, Art. VII 2-37 – 2-44, pertained to the downtown
parking commission, and was derived from an ordinance of April 21, 1975, and an
ordinance of June 2, 1975, 1. Art. VII has been reserved by the editor for
future use.
Secs. 2-37—2-44. Reserved.
Article VIII. Tax Exemption Application Administration Fees
Sec. 2-45. Purpose.
   The fees established by this article are determined to be the reasonable
expenses incurred by the city in connection with the receiving, processing,
review and issuance of tax exemptions to certain qualifying entities pursuant
to certain acts of the State of Michigan. (2-18-80)
Sec. 2-46. Applicability.
   The application fees collectable hereunder are applicable to proceedings
under MCLA 207.651; MSA 7.800(51), and MCLA 207.551; MSA 7.800(1), being the
Commercial Redevelopment Act and the Plant Rehabilitation and Industrial
Development Act, respectively. (2-18-80)
Sec. 2-47. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   Commercial facilities exemption certificate fee. The fee which must
accompany an application for a commercial facilities exemption certificate
under MCLA 207.656; MSA 7.800(56). This fee is established to cover the costs
of the required notices, investigation and other administrative expenses
incurred by the city in connection with the application.
   Commercial redevelopment district designation fee. The fee which must
accompany a request for the establishment of a commercial redevelopment
district under MCLA 207.652(2); MSA 7.800(55)(2). This fee is established to
cover the costs of the required notices and publication and other
administrative expenses incurred by the city in connection with the request.
   Industrial facilities exemption certificate fee. The fee which must
accompany an application for an industrial facilities exemption certificate
under MCLA 207.555; MSA 7.800(5). This fee is established to cover the costs of
the required notices, investigation and other administrative expenses incurred
by the city in connection with the application.
   Plant rehabilitation or industrial development district designation fee. The
fee which must accompany a request for the establishment of a plan
rehabilitation district or an industrial development district under MCLA
207.554(2); MSA 7.800(4)(2). This fee is established to cover the costs of the
required notices and other administrative expenses incurred by the city in
connection with the request. (2-18-80)
Sec. 2-48. Fee schedule.
   Fees designated by the City Council by resolution for the following
designations and certificates must be paid to the City Treasurer prior to or at
the time a request or application is filed.
   Plant rehabilitation or industrial development district designation.
   Industrial facilities exemption certificate. (2-18-80; Ord. No. O-98-02, 2-
2-98)
Sec. 2-49. Fees nonrefundable; disposition of funds collected.
   All fees payable hereunder are nonrefundable and shall be deposited in the
general fund of the city when collected. (2-18-80)
Article IX. Contracts and Purchases
Sec. 2-50. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to provide a procedure for purchasing which
allows for the fair and equitable treatment of all persons involved in public
purchasing by the city, to maximize the purchasing value of public funds in
procurement, and to provide safeguards for maintaining a procurement system of
quality and integrity. Competitive prices for purchases and public improvements
shall be obtained when reasonable and appropriate and the purchase made from,
or the contract awarded to, the lowest responsible and responsive bidder.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94).
Sec. 2-51. Application.
   The article applies to procurement of supplies, equipment, services, and
construction by the City of Fremont. It shall apply to the expenditure of
public funds for public purchasing irrespective of its source. When the
procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance or contract funds,
the procurement shall be conducted in accordance with the federal law and
regulations, which are not reflected in this article. Nothing in this article
shall prevent any public agency from complying with the terms and conditions of
any grant, files or bequests that are otherwise consistent with law.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-52. Definitions.
   The following terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the
meaning ascribed to them:
   (1)   Contract means all types of city agreements, regardless of what they
might be called for the procurement of supplies, services or construction.
   (2)   Contractor means any person, firm or corporation having contact with
the city.
   (3)   Contractual services shall mean and include the rental, repair or
maintenance of equipment, machinery, roads and other city-owned property
providing for the operations and/or services evidenced by a written contract.
   (4)   Construction means the process of building, altering, repairing,
improving or demolishing any city structure or building, or other city
improvements of any kind to any city real property.
   (5)   Invitation of bids means the complete assembly of related documents,
whether attached or incorporated by reference, furnished prospective bidders
for the purpose of soliciting sealed bids.
   (6)   Invoice shall mean a formal statement or billing submitted by a vendor
showing the amount due and the terms of payment for supplies delivered or
services rendered.
   (7)   Local bidder/local vendor shall mean a vendor or business with an
established place of business within the City of Fremont
   (8)   Procurement means purchasing, renting, leasing or otherwise acquiring
for monetary consideration any supplies, services or construction items for the
city.
   (9)   Public improvement shall mean any enhancement to property or equipment
belonging to the city.
   (10)   Purchase order shall mean the document used as notice to initiate and
contract purchases. It is the formal notice to a vendor to furnish the supplies
or services described in detail.
   (11)   Purchasing officer is the city manager, or the person whom the city
manager delegates the performance of the purchasing function.
   (12)   Quotes used for smaller purchases shall be prices obtained through an
informal method by use of telephone, written communication or personal contact.
   (13)   Requests for proposals (REP) means all documents, whether attached or
incorporated by reference, utilized for soliciting proposals and quotations for
services.
   (14)   Requisition of purchase memorandum shall mean the written request
used to inform the purchasing officer that goods, services or materials need to
be purchased.
   (15)   Responsible bidder shall mean a person who has the capability in all
respects to perform fully the contract requirements and fulfill the contract
requirements and fits the criteria identified under section 2-63: “Criteria for
Responsible Bidder.”
   (16)   Sealed competitive bids shall be used for any estimated purchase of
five thousand dollars ($5,000) or more. Prices from competitors will be
submitted secured and sealed in an envelope properly identified.
   (17)   Services means the furnishing of labor, time or efforts by a person,
except that the term does not include the furnishing of labor, time or effort
by a city employee, appointed or elected officials, or non-construction-based
services including legal, consultant, and professional services contracts.
   (18)   Specifications shall mean a written description of needed supplies,
equipment or services, setting forth the characteristics of the items and/or
services to be purchased and the circumstances under which the purchases will
be made.
   (19)   Supplies shall mean and include all supplies, materials and
equipment.
   (20)   Using agency shall mean the city council or a city department,
division, agency, commission, board or other unit of city government.
   (21)   Vendor shall mean a supplier of goods or services.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-53. Powers and duties of purchasing officer.
   The following shall be the powers and duties of the purchasing officer:
   (1)   Endeavor to encourage and obtain as full and open competition as
reasonably possible on all purchases and sales.
   (2)   Prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonably necessary to the
operation of this article.
   (3)   Act to procure for the city the highest quality in supplies and
contractual service at the least expense to the city.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-54. Small item purchases under $500.
   All items under the price of five hundred dollars ($500) may be purchased
outright in the open market by a department head of his/her designated
representative, when it has been determined by the department head that it is
not economically feasible to buy the item in quantities that require the city
to purchase the item by competitive quotes or bidding.
   The invoice for the purchased items shall be signed by the city employee who
made the purchase. This invoice shall then be coded by the department head for
proper payment and turned promptly into the city clerk’s office.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-55. Purchase of items equal to or over $500.00 but less than $2,500.00.
   All purchases equal to or over five hundred dollars ($500) and less than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) may be purchased in the open market by a
department head, or his/her designated representative, when the department head
determines it is not economically feasible, nor necessarily appropriate, to buy
the items in quantities that requires competitive bidding. Generally, phone
quotes from vendors are sufficient; written quotations are preferred if time
permits. Such purchases shall be made after it is confirmed as to the
availability of funds by the appropriate department head, followed by the
processing of a purchase order.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-56. Purchase of items equal to or over 2,500 but less than $5,000.
   All purchases of supplies, materials, services or equipment, costing two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500) or over, but less than five thousand
dollars ($5,000) may be made in the open market after soliciting competitive
written quotes. Quotes shall be solicited by telephone or direct mail requests
to prospective vendors or through personal contact. The names of each vendor
submitting a written quotation and the date and amount of each quotation shall
be recorded and available for public inspection. The purchase shall be awarded
to the lowest responsible and responsive vendor. A purchase memo containing the
names of the vendors submitting quotes shall be completed. The appropriate
department head shall determine that an appropriation has been approved by the
city council in the annual budget, or that funds are available through proper
fund adjustments. The purchase memo will then be forwarded to the purchasing
officer for the processing of purchase order.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-57. Purchases of $5,000 or over.
   Any expenditure or contract obligating the city in an amount of five
thousand dollars ($5,000) or more must be made through formal sealed
competitive bids, approved and awarded by the city council.
   The purchasing officer shall provide for such procurement through
competitive sealed bids as follows:
   (1)   A notice soliciting sealed competitive bids shall be published in a
newspaper in general circulation in the City of Fremont at least ten (10)
calendar days prior to the final date for submission of bids to the city. Such
notice shall briefly state the following: the specifications of the supplies,
materials, service or equipment re-quested; the amount of any required surety
to the submitted with the bid or contract; the time and place for filing and
opening of bids; and the general terms and conditions of the award of the
contract.
   (2)   The purchasing officer shall also solicit sealed bids from qualified
prospective bidders known to the city and who have requested inclusion in city
bidding solicitation, by sending each a copy of the request for bid proposal or
the newspaper notice.
   (3)   The city council shall reserve the right to reject any and all bids
submitted and such right to rejection shall be included with any notice of
request for bids.
   (4)   The department heads and city manager shall review the proposals
received and provide necessary recommendations to the city council.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-58. Purchase orders.
   A purchase order is the instrument used to initiate purchases. It is used to
introduce a greater measure of responsibility and accountability over
implementation of the annual budget and improves control of expenditures so
that budget amounts are not exceeded. It is a formal notice to a vendor to
furnish supplies or services described in detail.
   A city purchase order shall be initiated by department head or city manager
action and forwarded to personnel in the city clerk’s office. It will then be
forwarded to the vendor.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-59. Subdividing contracts or purchases.
   No contract or purchase shall be divided for the purpose of circumventing
the dollar limitations of any section of this article, unless it is deemed to
be in the city’s best interest to do so.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-60. Purchase from petty cash.
   The purpose of petty cash is to provide funds for incidental purchases or
items necessary for immediate and urgent projects. Petty cash is not to be used
to circumvent the purchasing procedures.
   Purchases from petty cash shall be monitored by the city treasurer and
excessive use or misuse shall be reported directly to the city manager.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-61. Sealed bids.
   All bids shall be securely sealed in an envelope properly identified and
submitted to the city clerk’s office and, if required, shall be accompanied by
security in the form of a cashier’s check, cash or bond in such amount as may
be prescribed in the public notice inviting bids.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-62. Criteria for responsible bidders.
   Whenever satisfactory quotes or bids are received, the purchase or contract
shall be awarded to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder whose bid is
most advantageous to the city. The city has the right to accept or reject any
or all bids it deems necessary or advisable. In determining which bid is most
advantageous and/or competent, the city manager and city council, upon the
advice of the purchasing officer or department head may consider in addition to
price:
   (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the contact
or provide the service required.
   (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference.
   (3)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgement, experience and
efficiency of the bidder.
   (4)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services of the
bidder.
   (5)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service.
   (6)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder
to perform the contract or provide the service.
   (7)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies, or
contractual services to the particular use required.
   (8)   The ability of the bidder to provide further maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract.
   (9)   The number and scope of any additional, limiting, or qualifying
conditions attached to the bid by the bidder.
   (10)   The failure of a bidder to promptly supply information in connection
with an inquiry from the city manager or purchasing officer with respect to any
of the above enumerated provisions may be grounds to disqualify such bidder.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-63. Contracts not awarded to the lowest bidder.
   Whenever satisfactory bids are received on contracts over five thousand
dollars ($5,000), the contract shall be awarded by the city council to the
lowest responsible and responsive bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a summary of the rationale for the decision shall be prepared by
the requesting department head and/or purchasing officer and filed with other
papers relating to the transaction.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-64. Tie bidders.
   If the lowest responsible and responsive bids are for the same total amount
or unit price and each bidder is equally qualified under the provisions of
section 2-62, then the contract shall be awarded to the local bidder, provided
however, that if none of such bidders are local bidders, the contract shall be
awarded to one (1) of the tie bidders by drawing lots in public; or whenever
such action will be serve the public interest, the purchasing officer, with the
approval of the city council, may purchase the commodities in the open market,
provided the price paid in the open market shall not exceed the lowest and best
bid price submitted for the same commodity.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-65. Local vendors.
   Where possible and reasonable, requests, quotes and/or bids from local
vendors shall be solicited as a part of any procurement process.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-66. Bid securities and bonds.
   When deemed necessary by the city manager, bid securities and/or
performance/payment bonds shall be required and prescribed in the public
notices inviting bids. Bid securities and performance bonds are generally
required for most competitive bids for larger construction contracts.
   (a)   Bid security.
      (1)   A bid security shall be a bond provided by a security company
authorized to do business in the State of Michigan, or the equivalent in cash,
or otherwise supplied in a form satisfactory to the city. Nothing contained
herein shall prevent the requirement of such security on any contract, when in
the determination of the city manager, circumstances warrant bid security.
      (2)   Bid security shall be in an amount equal to five (5) percent of the
amount of the bid, or fifty dollars ($50), whichever is greater.
      (3)   When the invitation for bids requires a bid security, noncompliance
requires that the bid be rejected, unless it is determined that the bid fails
to comply in a non-substantial manner with the bid security requirements.
   (b)   Performance bonds
      (1)   When a performance bond is required, it shall be delivered to the
city at the time or before the signing of the contract by the mayor.
      (2)   A performance bond, satisfactory to the city and executed by a
surety company authorized to do business in the State of Michigan, or otherwise
secured in a manner satisfactory to the city shall be in an amount equal to one
hundred (100) percent of the price specified in the contract.
      (3)   A payment bond satisfactory to the city an executed by a surety
authorized to do business in the State of Michigan, or otherwise secured in a
manner satisfactory to the city, for the protection of all persons supplying
labor and materials to the contractor or its subcontractors for the performance
of the work provided in the contract. The bond shall be in an amount equal to
one hundred (100) percent of the price specified in the contract.
   (c)   A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required upon
failure on the bidder’s part to enter a contract within the time specified
after the award.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-67. Bid opening procedures.
   Bids shall be sealed and submitted to the office of the city clerk. Each
sealed envelope shall clearly identify which bid is enclosed in the envelope.
If required, the bid shall be accompanied by security in the form of a
cashier’s check, certified check, cash or bond in such amount as prescribed in
the public notice inviting bids.
   All bids shall be opened in public on the date, time and place stated in the
public notices in the presence of the city clerk, or a designated
representative. Each bid, together with the name of the bidder, shall be
recorded and the tabulation of all bids received shall be available for public
inspection in the city clerk’s office. Any bid received after the exact time it
is due, as advertised in the public notice, will not be opened or considered.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-68. Rejection of bids.
   An invitation for bids may be cancelled or any and all bids, proposals or
quotations may be rejected in whole or in part as specified in the invitation
for bids when such cancellation or rejection is determined by the city manager
or city council to be in the best interest of the city.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-69. Bidders in default to the city.
   The city council shall not accept the bid of any person, firm or corporation
who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies due the
city nor shall the city council award any contract to any person, firm or
corporation who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies
due the city.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-70. Appropriations sufficiency.
   Prior to any purchase, it shall be determined by the department head or the
appropriate finance personnel, that sufficient budgeted appropriations exist to
cover any or all expenditures. Any recommendation memo to the city manager by
the department head shall include this information along with the appropriate
account number(s) from which the funds will be expended.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-71. Emergency purchases.
   In the event of an apparent emergency which poses threats to the public
health, safety, or welfare of the city or its citizens, and requires immediate
purchase of supplies or contractual services, the city manager may temporarily
suspend the requirements of this article. The city manager or his/her designee,
is authorized to purchase on the open market, at the lowest obtainable and best
price, any necessary contractual services or supplies to address the emergency
situation.
   A report of the circumstances of an emergency purchase, if over five
thousand dollars ($5,000), will be filed with the city council by the city
manager as soon as is reasonably possible after such purchase, and shall be
entered into the council minutes.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-72. Public improvements.
   No public improvements requiring an engineer’s seal shall be contracted for
or commenced until estimates, drawings, profiles and specifications, where
appropriate, have been submitted by the engineer. State law requires an
engineer’s seal for all public works construction contracts exceeding fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000).
   The city council may authorize the making of public improvements or the
performing of any other city work by any city department or agency without
competitive bidding (force account labor.)
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-73. Contracts, power of city council.
   Contracts shall be drawn or approved as to form by the city attorney and
certified to, as to sufficiency of funds, by the officer or staff person
charged with the responsibility of maintaining the city accounting system or
checking for sufficient appropriations. The letting and making of such
contracts are hereby vested in the city council, which in its discretion shall
have the power to reject any or all bids.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-74. Refusal to execute contract.
   Each contract submitted to the city council for approval shall be
accompanied by a tabulation of all bids received. All bids, deposits of cash,
certified or cashier’s checks may be retained until the contract is awarded and
signed. If any successful bidder fails or refuses to execute the contract after
its award, the deposit accompanying the bid shall be forfeited and the city
council may award the contract to the next lowest and best bidder or
readvertise for new bids.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-75. Contracts filed with city clerk.
   A copy of each contract shall be filed with the city clerk. At the time the
contract is executed by the contractor, he/she if so required by the city,
shall execute a surety company bond to the city conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the contract and saving the city harmless for all losses or
damage caused by any person or property by reason of any carelessness or
negligence by the contractor and from all expenses of inspection, engineering
and otherwise, caused by the delay in the completion of any improvement and
further conditioned to pay all laborers, mechanics, subcontractors and material
suppliers as well as all just debts and demands incurred in the performance of
the work.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-76. Payment to contractor.
   No compensation shall be paid to any contractor except in accordance with
the terms of the contract, unless it is deemed to be in the city’s best
interest.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-77. Extra compensation.
   Any accumulative extra compensation and/or change order pertaining to a
contract shall be made in accordance with the threshold levels identified
within section 2-54 through 2-56 of this article. If such accumulative extra
compensations shall equal or exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000), it may be
granted or authorized only with city council approval.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-78. Contracts without competitive bidding.
   The council, upon the recommendation of the purchasing officer or requesting
department head, may authorize the execution of a contract without competitive
sealed bidding for purchases over five thousand dollars ($5,000) if:
   (1)   The material, product or service is available from only one vendor
(sole-source purchase); or
   (2)   A public emergency will not permit a delay resulting from competitive
solicitation; or
   (3)   After solicitation of a number of sources, competition is determined
inadequate; or
   (4)   The city could obtain a substantial benefit (economic, time, quality,
etc.) not otherwise obtainable if competitive bids were secured.
   The city manager is authorized to make such non-competitive purchases if
they qualify under the above circumstances and if valued at less than five
thousand dollars ($5,000).
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-79. Cooperative purchasing.
   The city shall have the authority to join with other units of government,
including the Sate, in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interest of
the city would be served, thereby, upon approval of the city council.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-80. Purchasing service available to other public agencies.
   If, in the opinion of the purchasing officer, it is appropriate to enter
into cooperative purchasing agreements, the purchasing service of the city may
be made available without charge to any public authority in which the city has
an interest.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-81. Acceptance an inspection of materials.
   The responsibility for the inspection and acceptance of all materials,
supplies and equipment shall rest with the department, division or agency
receiving and using the same.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
Sec. 2-82. Gifts and rebates prohibited.
   City employees or council members involved in purchasing or contracting are
prohibited from soliciting or accepting any gift, offer or employment, rebate,
money, or costly entertainment from any person, company, firm or corporation to
which any purchase or contract might be awarded or is awarded.
(Ord. No. 0-94-01, 2-21-94)
CHAPTER 3.
Animals and Fowl
*
§ 3-1.   Keeping or housing generally.
§ 3-2.   Running at large-Prohibited.
§ 3-3.   Same-Removal of animal excrement.
§ 3-4.   Same-Seizure by law enforcement.
§ 3-5.   Impoundment; disposition when unclaimed liability of city in unlawful
seizure, disposal, etc.
§ 3-6.   Cruelty to animals; provision of food, shelter, etc.
§ 3-7.   Abandonment.
§ 3-8.   Presumption of ownership of dogs or cats.
§ 3-9.   Confinement and testing of dog or other animal that has bitten a
person.
§ 3-10.   Barking, howling, etc., dogs and cats.
§ 3-11.   Establishment or maintenance of boarding or breeding kennels.
§ 3-12.   Dogs generally-Licensing and registration.
§ 3-13.   Same-wearing of license tag.
§ 3-14.   Same-Fines on release from impoundment.
§ 3-15.   Same-Vicious and dangerous dogs.
§ 3-16.   Same-Female dogs in heat.
§ 3-17.   Same- Effect of chapter on recovery of value of illegally killed dog.
§ 3-18.   Enforcement of chapter generally.
§ 3-19.   Interfering with enforcing officer, etc.
§ 3-20.   Qualifications of animal control officer.
§ 3-21.   Penalty.
____________
   *Cross References- Domestic animals in parks,
14-12,
14-13; treatment of animals, birds, etc. in parks,
14-21,
14-22.
   State Law References- Offenses concerning animals and birds generally,
M.C.L.A. §§ 750.49 - 750.70; dogs generally, M.C.L.A. §§ 287.261 et seq.
Sec. 3-1. Keeping or housing generally.
   Except as specifically permitted herein or by the provisions of
Chapter 22, no person shall keep or house any animal within the city except
dogs, cats, canaries or other animals or birds which are commonly kept and
housed inside dwellings as household pets; provided, that no person shall keep
or house more than three (3) dogs or four (4) cats six (6) months or older.
   An owner or occupant of a parcel of property ½ acre or greater may keep a
maximum combination of four (4) hen chickens and/or rabbits within a fenced
enclosure in the rear yard no closer than 125 feet from any adjacent dwelling
place structure and comply with zoning regulations. Roosters are prohibited.
(5-17-73, 1; Ord. No. O-23-04, 6-19-23)
Sec. 3-2. Running at large-Prohibited.
   No person shall permit any domestic animal or any goose, chicken or other
fowl to run or be at large in the public streets, lanes, alleys, vacant lots or
other open or public places; nor upon any private premises other than the
premises of the owner or custodian of such domestic animal or fowl per Section
3-1, without the consent of the owner or occupant of such private premises;
provided, that any such domestic animal be permitted on public properties if in
the immediate control of a competent person. (5-17-73, 2; Ord. No. O-23-04, 6-
19-23)
Sec. 3-3. Same-Removal of animal excrement.
   Any person who is the owner, custodian, or possessor of a dog, cat, or other
domestic animal, shall prevent such animal from being on property, public or
private, not owned or possessed by such a person unless such person has in his
(her) immediate possession, and promptly utilizes, an appropriate device for
scooping excrement and shall dispose of same on the property of owner,
custodian, or possessor, or dispose same through means hired by said owner,
custodian, or possessor.
   This section shall not be constructed in derogation of section
3-2 of the Fremont City Code.
   This section shall not apply to a blind owner, custodian, or possessor of a
seeing-eye dog.
(Ord. of 7-2-90)
Sec. 3-4. Same-Seizure by enforcing officer.
   The enforcing officer shall seize any animal or fowl running at large in the
city. (5-17-73, 3)
Sec. 3-5. Impoundment; disposition when unclaimed; liability of city in
umlawful seizure, disposal, etc.
   An animal or fowl seized under the provisions of section
3-4 shall be placed in the pound or delivered to the county animal control
officer. If the owner of the impounded animal or fowl can be determined, such
owner shall be notified by the police department of the impoundment.
   All animals or fowls not claimed within four (4) days after such
notification, or not claimed within four (4) days after impoundment if the
owner thereof cannot be determined, shall be disposed of by a proper authority.
   The city and enforcing officer shall incur no liability in the lawful
seizure, killing or disposal of any animal or fowl. (5-17-73, 4, 7-19-82)
Sec. 3-6. Cruelty to animals; provisions of food, shelter, etc.
    No person shall over work, torture, torment, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate or cruelly kill any animal. Any person
having custody of any animal shall provide such animal with proper food, drink,
shelter or protection from the weather.
   State Law Reference - Cruelty to animals, M.C.L.A. § 750.50.
Sec. 3-7. Abandonment.
   No person shall abandon any animal or fowl in any public place or public
highway or upon the property of another. (5-17-73, 6)
Sec. 3-8. Presumption of ownership of dogs or cats.
   Every person in possession of any dog or cat, who shall allow such dog or
cat to remain about his premises for a period of five days, shall be deemed to
be the owner thereof for the purpose of this chapter. (5-17-73, 8)
Sec. 3-9. Confinement and testing of dog or other animal that has bitten a
person.
   Any dog or other animal that has bitten a person shall be held in
confinement for a period of at least ten days from the date the person was
bitten. If such dog or other animal is unlicensed such confinement shall be in
the city dog pound. If the animal dies during the period of confinement, the
head shall be sent to a laboratory for examination for evidence of rabies in
the manner specified in section R 324.40 of the state regulations for the
control of communicable diseases. (5-17-73, 12)
Sec 3-10. Barking, yowling, etc., dogs and cats.
   No person shall own, keep, house or have charge of any dog or at which, by
prolonged barking, howling, yowling or yelping, becomes a nuisance. Prolonged
barking, howling, yowling or yelping for a period of fifteen minutes or longer
shall be deemed a violation of this section. (5-17-73, 13)
Sec. 3-11. Establishment or maintenance of boarding or breeding kennels.
   No person shall establish or maintain any boarding kennel or any breeding
kennel or permit such kennel to be maintained in any premise owned, leased or
occupied by him, except as an accessory use to an animal hospital or a doctor
of veterinary medicine and then only if such use complies with the requirements
of
Chapter 22. (5-17-73, 16)
Sec. 3-12. Dogs generally—Licensing and registration.
   No resident person shall own, keep or house any dog within the city, unless
such person shall have complied with the laws of the state providing for the
licensing and registration of such dog. (5-17-73, 9)
Sec. 3-13. Same—Wearing of license tag.
   No resident shall own, keep or house any dog six months old or older that
does not, at all times, wear a collar or harness with a license tag issued
pursuant to the laws of the state. (5-17- 73, 10)
Sec. 3-14. Same—Fines on release from impoundment.
   No dog shall be released from the pound unless the owner or person entitled
to demand such dog shall present a current valid license and pay a fine of five
dollars for the first offense and ten dollars for subsequent offenses and pay
board fees for each day the dog is confined. Reasonable board fees shall be
determined by the from time to time by resolution of the city council. However,
owners of dogs confined for health reasons under sections
3-9 and
3-15 shall not be fined. (5-17-73, 11; 7-19-82)
Sec. 3-15. Same—Vicious and dangerous dogs.
   No person shall own, keep, house or have charge of any dog that exhibits an
ugly or vicious disposition without provocation or is dangerous to persons or
property. Any dog shall be deemed vicious which has bitten a person or domestic
animal without provocation or which by its actions gives indication that it is
likely to bite any person or domestic animal without provocation. This section
shall not apply to dogs properly confined upon the owner’s premises and used
for the purpose of guarding the premises, nor shall it apply to dogs used by
the city police department in connection with its regular duties.
   The owner or any person entitled to possession or control of such a dog
shall deliver it to the enforcing officer for confinement or disposal. (5-17-
73, 12)
Sec. 3-16. Same—Female dogs in heat.
   No person shall own, keep, or house any female dog in the city, while such
dog is in heat, except when confined within the dwelling of such person or a
building which would prevent the ingress of other dogs. (5-17-73, 14)
Sec. 3-17. Same—Effect of chapter on recovery of value of illegally killed dog.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the owner of a
licensed dog from recovering, by action or law, from any enforcing officer or
other person, the value of any dog illegally killed by such enforcing officer
or other person. (5-17-73, 15)
Sec. 3-18. Enforcement of chapter generally.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the animal control officer, any police
officer, or the civil infraction official.
   A written warning requiring compliance within seven (7) days may be issued
for the first violation. A citation, summons, or appearance ticket shall be
issued for non-compliance of the first violation and each violation thereafter.
(5-17-73, 18; Ord. No. O-23-04, 6-19-23)
Sec. 3-19. Interfering with enforcing officer, etc.
   No person shall hinder, obstruct, or delay the enforcement officer or other
person who is engaged in lawfully taking into custody any dog, other animal or
any fowl found running at large or being possessed or housed by any person
contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (5-17-73, 7)
Sec. 3-20. Qualifications of animal control officer.
   The animal control officer must pass a standard physical examination, be a
high school graduate and must be mentally and morally fit. Such fitness may be
determined by personal interview of the city manager. Unless the animal control
officer is a police officer or has served at least three years as an animal
control officer he shall complete a minimum course of study of not less then
one hundred (100) instructional hours as prescribed by the department of
agriculture. (5-17-73, 17)
Sec. 3-21. Penalty.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a civil infraction, punishable by a fine as established in Chapter 7: Civil
Infractions, Citations and Penalties. (Ord. No. O-23-04, 6-19-23)
CHAPTER 4.
HOUSING
Article I. Tax Exemption for Certain Multi-Family Housing
§ 4-1.   Title
§ 4-2.   Preamble
§ 4-3   Definitions
§ 4-4.   Class of housing development
§ 4-5.   Establishment of annual service charge
§ 4-6.   Limitation on the payment of the annual service charge
§ 4-7.   Contractual effect of this Article
§ 4-8.   Payment of service charge
§ 4-9.   Duration
§ 4-10.   Severability
§ 4-11.   Effective date
Article II. Tax Exemption for Certain Multi-Family Housing Serving Low Income
Seniors
§
4-12.   Title
§
4-13.   Preamble
§
4-14.   Definitions
§
4-15.   Class of housing development
§
4-16.   Establishment of an annual service charge
§
4-17.   Limitation on the payment of the annual service charge
§
4-18.   Payment of the service charge
§
4-19.   Duration
§
4-20.   Review and audit of sponsor's records
§
4-21.   Contractual effect of this Article
§
4-22.   Severability
§
4-23.   Effective date
Article III. Tax Exemption for Certain Existing Multi-Family Housing Serving
Low Income Citizens
§
4-24.   Title
§
4-25.   Preamble
§
4-26.   Definitions
§
4-27.   Class of housing development
§
4-28.   Establishment of an annual service charge
§
4-29.   Limitation on the payment of the annual service charge
§
4-30.   Payment of the service charge
§
4-31.   Duration
§
4-32.   Review and audit of sponsor's records
§
4-33.   Contractual effect of this Article
§
4-34.   Severability
§
4-35.   Effective date
Article IV. Tax Exemption for Certain Existing Multi-Family Housing Serving Low
Income Citizens
§
4-36.   Title.
§
4-37.   Preamble.
§
4-38.   Definitions.
§
4-39.   Class of housing development.
§
4-40.   Establishment of an annual service charge.
§
4-41.   Limitation on the payment of the annual service charge.
§
4-42.   Payment of the service charge.
§
4-43.   Duration.
§
4-44.   Review and audit of sponsor’s records.
§
4-45.   Contractual effect of this article.
§
4-46.   Severability.
§
4-47.   Effective date.
Article V. Tax Exemption for Certain Multi-Family Housing Serving Low Income
Seniors
§
4-48.      Title.
§
4-49.      Preamble.
§
4-50.      Definitions.
§
4-51.      Class of housing development.
§
4-52.      Establishment of an annual service charge.
§
4-53.      Reserved.
§
4-54.      Payment of the service charge.
§
4-55.      Duration.
§
4-56.      Review and audit of sponsor’s records.
§
4-57.      Contractual effect of this article.
§
4-58.      Severability.
§
4-59.      Effective date.
Article I. Tax Exemption for Certain Multi-Family Housing
Sec. 4-1.   Title.
   This Article shall be known and cited as the City of Fremont “Multi-Family
Housing Tax Exemption” Article. (O-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-2.   Preamble.
   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of
low income and to encourage the development of such housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the State Housing
Development Authority Act of 1966 (Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended, being
Michigan Compiled Laws Section 125.1401 et seq.). The City is authorized by
this Act to establish or change the service charge to be paid in lieu of taxes
by any or all classes of housing exempt from taxation under this Act at any
amount it chooses not to exceed the taxes that would be paid but for this Act.
It is further acknowledged that such housing for persons of low income is a
public necessity, and as the City will be benefited and improved by such
housing, the encouragement of the same by providing certain real estate tax
exemption for such housing is a valid public purpose; further, that the
continuation of the provisions of this Article for tax exemption and the
service charge in lieu of taxes during the period contemplated in this Article
are essential to the determination of economic feasibility of housing
developments which are constructed and financed in reliance on such tax
exemption.
   The City acknowledges that the Newaygo County Community Services (NCCS)
Center for Nonprofit Housing (CNH) in its own behalf and on behalf of a limited
dividend housing association limited partnership to be formed (the “Sponsor”)
has offered, subject to receipt of an allocation under the low income housing
tax credit (LIHTC) and a mortgage loan, to erect, own, and operate a housing
development identified as the Fremont Apartments Development on certain
property located on an approximately 4.2-acre site in the City to serve persons
of low income, and that the Sponsor has offered to pay the City on account of
this housing development an annual service charge for public services in lieu
of taxes. (O-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-3   Definitions.
   All terms not herein defined shall have the meanings given them in the State
Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, being Public Act 346 of 1966, of the
State of Michigan, as amended.
   “Act” means the State Housing Development Authority Act, being Michigan
Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended.
   “Annual Shelter Rent” means the total collections during an agreed annual
period from all occupants of a housing development representing rent or
occupancy charges, exclusive of charges for gas, electricity, heat or other
utilities furnished to the occupants.
   “Authority” means the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA).
   “Housing Development” means a development that contains a significant
element of housing for persons of low income and such elements of other
housing, commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational
facilities as the Authority determines improve the quality of the development
as it relates to housing for persons of low income.
   “Mortgage Loan” means a loan to be made by the Authority to the Sponsor for
the construction and/or permanent financing of the housing development.
   “Sponsor” means person(s) or entities that have applied to the Authority for
a mortgage loan or for an allocation under the low income housing tax credit
program to finance a housing development.
   “Utilities” mean fuel, water, sanitary sewer service, and/or electrical
service that are paid by the housing development. (Ord. 0-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-4.   Class of Housing Development.
   It is determined that the class of housing developments to which the tax
exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu of
such taxes shall be housing developments that are financed or assisted pursuant
to the Act. It is further determined that the Fremont Apartments Development is
of this class. (Ord. 0-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-5.   Establishment of Annual Service Charge.
   The housing development known as the Fremont Apartments Development and the
property on which it shall be constructed (Property Identification Number 62-
13-34-400-061; common address of 1218 W. State Street) shall be exempt from all
property taxes from and after the commencement of construction. The City,
acknowledging that the Sponsor and the Authority have established the economic
feasibility of the housing development in reliance upon the enactment and
continuing effect of this Article and the qualification of the housing
development for the exemption from all property taxes and a payment in lieu of
taxes as established in this Article, and in consideration of the Sponsor's
offer, subject to receipt of a mortgage loan and an allocation under the LIHTC
program, to construct, own and operate the Housing Development, agrees to
accept payment of an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all
property taxes. The annual service charge shall be equal topercent (%) of the
difference between the annual shelter rents actually collected and utilities.
(Ord. 0-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-6.   Limitation on the Payment of the Annual Service Charge.
   Notwithstanding Section 4-5, the service charge to be paid each year in lieu
of taxes for the part of the housing development which is tax exempt and which
is occupied by other than low income persons or families shall be equal to the
full amount of the taxes which shall be paid on that portion of the housing
development if the housing development were not tax exempt. The term “low
income persons or families” as used herein shall be the same meaning found in
Section 15(a)(7) of the Act. (Ord. 0-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-7.   Contractual Effect of this Article.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 15(a)(5) of the Act to the
contrary, a contract between the City and the Sponsor, with the Authority as
third party beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax exemption and accept
payments in lieu of taxes, as previously described, is effectuated by enactment
of this Article. (Ord. 0-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-8.   Payment of Service Charge.
   The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this Article shall
be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are payable to the City
except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before August 10th of each
year. (Ord. 0-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-9.   Duration.
   This Article shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as the
Authority’s mortgage loan remains outstanding and unpaid or the Authority has
any interest in the property; or the housing development remains subject to
income and rent restrictions pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, provided that construction of the housing development
commence within one year from the effective date of this Article. (Ord. 0-04-
03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-10.   Severability.
   The various sections and provisions of this Article shall be deemed to be
severable and should any section or provision of this Article be declared by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same
shall not affect the validity of the Article as a whole or any section or
provision of this Article other than the section or provision so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 0-04-03, 12-20-04)
Sec. 4-11.   Effective Date.
   This Article shall take effect ten (10) days after publication thereof.
(Ord. 0-04-03, 12-20-04)
Article II. Tax Exemption for Certain Multi-Family Housing Serving Low Income
Seniors
Sec. 4-12.   Title.
   This Article shall be known and cited as the City of Fremont "Senior Citizen
Multi-Family Housing Tax Exemption" Article. (Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-13.   Preamble.
   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its senior
citizens of low income and to encourage the development of such housing by
providing for a service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the
Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA) Act of 1966 (1966 PA 346,
as amended, MCLA Section 125.1401 et seq.). The City is authorized by this Act
to establish or change the service charge to be paid in lieu of ad valorem
property taxes by any or all classes of housing exempt from taxation under this
Act at any amount it chooses, not to exceed the taxes that would be paid but
for this Act. It is further acknowledged that such housing for senior persons
of low income is a public necessity, and because the City will be benefited and
improved by such housing, the encouragement of the same by providing certain
real estate tax exemption for such housing is a valid public purpose; further,
that the provisions of this Article for tax exemption and the service charge in
lieu of taxes during the period contemplated in this Article are essential to
the determination of economic feasibility of housing developments that are
constructed, renovated and/or financed in reliance on such tax exemption.
   The City acknowledges that the Newaygo County Community Services (NCCS)
Center for Nonprofit Housing (CNH) has, on its own behalf, created a new
ownership entity named the "Senior Wedgewood Limited Dividend Housing
Association Limited Partnership" also known as the "Senior Wedgewood LDHA-LP"
for short (hereinafter the "Sponsor"). The Sponsor has offered, subject to
receipt of an allocation under the federal Low Income Housing Tax Credit
(LIHTC) program and a Mortgage Loan from USDA Rural Development to renovate,
own and operate a housing development identified as the Senior Wedgewood
Apartment Development (20 units) on certain property located at 216 Meadow
Hills Lane in the City to serve senior citizens of low income. CNH shall be the
General Partner and the LIHTC investors represented by the syndicator, Great
Lakes Capital Fund for Housing Limited Partnership, shall be the Limited
Partners. The Sponsor has offered to pay the City on account of this housing
development an annual service charge for public services in lieu of property
taxes. (Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-14.   Definitions.
   All terms not herein defined shall have the meanings given them in the State
Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, being Public Act 346 of 1966, of the
State of Michigan, as amended.
   "Act" means the State Housing Development Authority Act, being Michigan
Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended.
   "Annual Shelter Rent" means the total collections during an agreed annual
period from all occupants of a housing development representing rent or
occupancy charges, exclusive of charges for utilities as defined in this
Section, which are furnished to and used by the occupants.
   "Authority" means the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA).
   "Commitment for Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC's)" means the
commitment for the tax credits allocated by the Authority to the sponsor under
provisions of Section 42(m)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended.
   "Low or Moderate Income Seniors" means seniors who cannot afford to pay the
amounts at which private enterprise, without federally-aided mortgages or loans
from the Authority, is providing a substantial supply of decent, safe and
sanitary housing and who fall within income limitations set in the Act or by
the Authority in its rules.
   "Mortgage Loan" means only the initial loan to be made by the Authority to
the Sponsor for the construction, renovation and/or long-term financing of the
Housing Development.
   "Senior", "Senior Citizen" or "Elderly" mean a single person who is 55 years
of age or older or a household in which at least one member is 55 years of age
or older and all other members are 50 years of age or older.
   "Senior Housing Development" means the senior citizen rental housing
development that contains the 20 units of housing for elderly persons of low
and moderate income and such other elements of housing, commercial,
recreational, communal and educational facilities that the City may
subsequently approve and that the developer determines necessary to maintain
the quality of the development for its stated purpose.
   "Sponsor" means the "Senior Wedgewood Limited Dividend Housing Association
Limited Partnership," also known as the "Senior Wedgewood LDHALP" for short, a
Michigan-limited partnership, which has received a commitment from the
Authority for a LIHTC allocation and a Mortgage Loan from the USDA Rural
Development program.
   "Taxing Jurisdiction" means a municipality, county or district, including a
school district or any special district having the power to levy or collect ad
valorem taxes upon real or personal property or in whose behalf taxes may be
levied or collected.
   "Utilities" mean only those essential for heating/cooling fuel, water,
sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service that are paid by the Housing
Development and used by the senior occupants. The definition of utilities
hereby excludes all other utilities or services including, but not limited to,
video/audio, data, computer, Internet, telephone, television or radio services
received via any electronic, mechanical or other means (cable, satellite or
wireless and all others now or in the future.) (Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-15.   Class of Housing Development.
   It is hereby determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the
tax exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu
of such taxes shall be all units in the Senior Wedgewood Housing Development,
owned, renovated, operated and developed by the Sponsor and rented to elderly
or senior persons under provisions of the commitment for low income housing tax
credits and the initial/original Mortgage Loan awarded to the Sponsor by the
Authority.
   It is further determined that the Wedgewood Apartment Development, as
described and acknowledged in Section 4-13, is of this class. (Ord. O-07-04, 9-
17-07)
Sec. 4-16.   Establishment of an Annual Service Charge.
   The Housing Development known as the Senior Wedgewood Apartment Development
and the property on which it shall be renovated (Property Identification Number
62-13-36-455-013; common address of 216 Meadow Hills Lane) shall be exempt from
all ad valorem property taxes from and after the commencement of renovation, as
further limited, however by this Article. Said renovation shall commence within
one year of the effective date of this Article.
   The City of Fremont, acknowledging that the Sponsor and the Authority have
established the economic feasibility of the Senior Housing Development in
reliance upon the enactment and effect of this Article and the qualification of
the Senior Housing Development for the exemption from all property taxes and a
payment in lieu of taxes as established in this Article, and in consideration
of the Sponsor's offer, subject to receipt of the initial Mortgage Loan from
the USDA Rural Development program and an allocation under the LIHTC program,
to renovate, own and operate the Senior Housing Development, agrees to accept
payment of an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all property
taxes.
   The annual service charge shall be equal to ten percent (10%) of the annual
shelter rents, but in no event less than $9,000.00. Beginning in 2010, the
annual service charge shall be the greater of: (1) ten percent (10%) of the
annual shelter rents; or (2) $9,000.00 PLUS a percentage increase equal to the
net percentage increase in the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics "Chained
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers: U.S. City Average for all Items,
Expenditure Categories and Commodity and Service Groups" (December 1999=100)
(the "C-CPI-U") from the C-CPI-U as published in January 2008 and the C-CPI-
U published in January of the year in which the service charge is due. (Ord. O-
07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-17.   Limitation on the Payment of the Annual Service Charge.
   Notwithstanding Section 4-16, the service charge to be paid each year in
lieu of taxes for the part of the Housing Development that is tax exempt and
which is occupied at any time during each year by other than low income senior
citizens shall be equal to the full amount of the annual property taxes, based
on the total property tax millage rate of all taxing jurisdictions in effect at
the time such occupancy occurs, which would have been paid on that portion of
the Housing Development if the Housing Development were not tax exempt. The
benefits of any tax exemption granted under this Article shall be allocated by
the owner of the Housing Development exclusively to low income senior citizens
in the form of reduced housing charges. The term "low income senior citizens"
as used herein shall be the same meaning found in Section 15(a)(7) of the Act.
(Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-18.   Payment of the Service Charge.
   The annual service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this Article
shall commence in the calendar year in which initial occupancy of the Senior
Housing Development occurs. The service charge in lieu of taxes shall be
payable in the same manner as general property taxes are payable to the City
except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before August 10th of each
year.
   Should the Sponsor's payment of the annual Service Charge be received by the
City after August 10th of each year it is due, then the City shall apply an
initial four (4) percent penalty to the amount due. The original service
charge, plus the four (4) percent penalty, shall accrue interest at the rate of
one (1) percent per month compounded monthly, beginning from the first day the
payment is delinquent. In addition to the penalty and the accrued interest, the
City may use any legal remedies at its disposal to secure payment of the
service charge, plus any penalty and interest. (Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-19.   Duration.
   This Article shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as the
original/initial USDA Rural Development Mortgage Loan remains outstanding and
unpaid or the Housing Development remains subject to income and rent
restrictions pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended. Provided, however that renovation of the Senior Housing Development
commences within one year from the effective date of this Article. Provided
further that the term of this Article shall not exceed thirty (30) years,
regardless of whether the original/initial USDA Rural Development Mortgage Loan
remains outstanding or unpaid or the Senior Housing Development remains subject
to any income or rent restrictions. At the end of the thirty- (30) year term,
the Senior Wedgewood Apartment Development shall no longer be exempt from ad
valorem property taxes and shall be placed on the ad valorem property tax roll
by the City Assessor and City Treasurer at its assessed value at the time the
exemption terminates.
   Any significant change of the Senior Housing Development's original or
initial public or private financing, refinancing, ownership, or other similar
factors shall automatically trigger a review by the City Council of the facts,
conditions, acknowledgments, rates of return and any other aspect of the
Sponsor's and other partners' or entities' participation in the Development. If
the Council's review determines, in its reasonable yet sole determination, that
there were or would be significant changes in the intent, return on investment,
or any other facet of the Development as originally proposed by the Sponsor and
as acknowledged and agreed to in this Article, then the City Council reserves
the right to modify, continue or cancel the tax exemption for the Senior
Wedgewood Housing Development. (Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-20.   Review and Audit of Sponsor's Records.
   The Sponsor shall permit the City, its appointed representatives, advisors
or financial auditing firm(s) to periodically conduct an audit of the annual
financial records of the project to determine the accuracy of the data used and
the calculations made to determine the PILOT amounts. If an audit reveals an
underpayment by the Sponsor of more than ten (10) percent of the PILOT as
calculated and paid by the Sponsor to the City in any one year, then the
Sponsor shall be required to pay the City for the costs of the audit. (Ord. O-
07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-21.   Contractual Effect of this Article.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 15(a)(5) of the Act to the
contrary, a contract between the City and the Sponsor, with the Authority as
third party beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax exemption and accept
payments in lieu of taxes, as previously described, is effectuated by enactment
of this Article. However, the City reserves its rights to pursue other legal
remedies to enforce provisions of this Article. (Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-22.   Severability.
   The various sections and provisions of this Article shall be deemed to be
severable and should any section or provision of this Article be declared by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same
shall not affect the validity of the Article as a whole or any section or
provision of this Article other than the section or provision so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Sec. 4-23.   Effective Date.
   This Article shall take effect ten (10) days after publication thereof.
(Ord. O-07-04, 9-17-07)
Article III. Tax Exemption for Certain Existing Multi-Family Housing Serving
Low Income Citizens
Sec. 4-24.   Title.
   This Article shall be known and cited as the City of Fremont "Existing
Multi-Family Low Income Housing Tax Exemption" Article. (Ord. O-07-06, 11-19-
07)
Sec. 4-25.   Preamble.
   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of
low income and to encourage the development of such housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the Michigan State
Housing Development Authority (MSHDA) Act of 1966 (1966 PA 346, as amended,
MCLA Section 125.1401 et seq.). The City is authorized by this Act to establish
or change the service charge to be paid in lieu of ad valorem property taxes by
any or all classes of housing exempt from taxation under this Act at any amount
it chooses, not to exceed the taxes that would be paid but for this Act. It is
further acknowledged that such preservation of existing housing for persons of
low income is a public necessity, and because the City will be benefited and
improved by such housing, the encouragement of the same by providing certain
real estate tax exemption for such housing is a valid public purpose; further,
that the provisions of this Article for tax exemption and the service charge in
lieu of taxes during the period contemplated in this Article are essential to
the determination of economic feasibility of housing developments that are
constructed, renovated and/or financed in reliance on such tax exemption.
   The City acknowledges that the Newaygo County Community Services (NCCS)
Center for Nonprofit Housing (CNH) has, on its own behalf, created a new
ownership entity named the "Meadow Hills Limited Dividend Housing Association-
Limited Partnership" also known as the "Meadow Hills LDHA-LP" for short
(hereinafter the "Sponsor"). The Sponsor has offered, subject to receipt of an
allocation under the federal Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) program and
both the assumption of an existing and receipt of a supplemental Mortgage Loan
from USDA Rural Development to renovate, own and operate a housing development
identified as the Meadow Hills North Family Apartment Development (48 units) on
certain property located at 106 Meadow Hills Lane in the City of Fremont to
serve citizens of low income. CNH shall be the General Partner and the LIHTC
investors represented by the syndicator, Great Lakes Capital Fund for Housing
Limited Partnership, shall be the Limited Partners. The Sponsor has offered to
pay the City of Fremont on account of this housing development an annual
service charge for public services in lieu of property taxes. (Ord. O-07-06,
11-19-07)
Sec. 4-26.   Definitions.
   All terms not herein defined shall have the meanings given them in the State
Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, being Public Act 346 of 1966, of the
State of Michigan, as amended.
   "Act" means the State Housing Development Authority Act, being Michigan
Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended.
   "Annual Shelter Rent" means the total collections during an agreed annual
period from all occupants of a housing development representing rent or
occupancy charges, exclusive of charges for utilities as defined in this
Section, which are furnished to and used by the occupants.
   "Authority" means the Michigan State Housing Development Authority (MSHDA).
   "Commitment for Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC's)" means the
commitment for the tax credits allocated by the Authority to the sponsor under
provisions of Section 42(m)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended.
   "Low or Moderate Income Families" means families who cannot afford to pay
the amounts at which private enterprise, without federally-aided mortgages or
loans from the Authority, is providing a substantial supply of decent, safe and
sanitary housing and who fall within income limitations set in the Act or by
the Authority in its rules.
   "Mortgage Loan" means the assumption of the existing mortgage loans and only
the initial supplemental loan to be made by the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
Rural Development Program to the Sponsor for the construction, renovation and/
or long-term financing of the Housing Development.
   "Multi-Family Existing Housing Development" means the rental housing
development that contains the forty-eight (48) units of housing for low and
moderate income families and such other elements of housing, commercial,
recreational, communal and educational facilities that the City may
subsequently approve and that the developer determines necessary to maintain
the quality of the development for its stated purpose.
   "Sponsor" means the "Meadow Hills Limited Dividend Housing Association-
Limited Partnership," also known as the "Meadow Hills LDHA-LP" for short, a
Michigan-limited partnership, which has received a commitment from the
Authority for a LIHTC allocation and both the assumption of existing Mortgage
Loans and the approval for an initial supplemental loan from the USDA Rural
Development program.
   "Taxing Jurisdiction" means a municipality, county or district, including a
school district or any special district having the power to levy or collect ad
valorem taxes upon real or personal property or in whose behalf taxes may be
levied or collected.
   "Utilities" mean only those essential for heating/cooling fuel, water,
sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service that are paid by the Housing
Development and used by the family occupants. The definition of "utilities"
hereby excludes all other utilities or services including, but not limited to,
video/audio, data, computer, Internet, telephone, television or radio services
received via any electronic, mechanical or other means (cable, satellite or
wireless and all others now or in the future.) (Ord. O-07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-27.   Class of Housing Development.
   It is determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the tax
exemption under this Article shall apply and for which a service charge shall
be paid in lieu of such property taxes shall be 48-unit multi-family housing
developments that exist in the City of Fremont at the time of adoption of this
Article that provide housing to families of low income; and which are financed
or assisted pursuant to the Act; and which receive an allocation of federal Low
Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC); and which will assume an existing USDA
Rural Development Loan; and which will secure a supplemental USDA Rural
Development Loan; and which will be owned, rehabilitated and managed by a local
(Newaygo County) nonprofit housing center; and which will invest an average of
at least $19,000 per unit ($912,000 total) to renovate and update the Housing
Development.
   It is hereby determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the
tax exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu
of such taxes shall be all forty-eight (48) units in the Meadow Hills North
Housing Development, owned, renovated, operated and developed by the Sponsor
and rented to eligible families under provisions of the commitment for low
income housing tax credits and the initial/original Mortgage Loan awarded to
the Sponsor by the USDA Rural Development program.
   It is further determined that the Meadow Hills North Family Apartment
Development, as described and acknowledged in Section 4-25, is of this class.
(Ord. O-07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-28.   Establishment of an Annual Service Charge.
   The Housing Development known as the Meadow Hills North Family Apartment
Development and the property on which it shall be renovated (Property
Identification Number 62-13-36-455-005; common address of 106 Meadow Hills
Lane) shall be exempt from all ad valorem property taxes from and after the
commencement of renovation, as further limited, however by this Article. Said
renovation shall commence within one year of the effective date of this
Article.
   The City of Fremont, acknowledging that the Sponsor and the Authority have
established the economic feasibility of the existing Low Income Family Housing
Development in reliance upon the enactment and effect of this Article and the
qualification of the Low Income Family Housing Development for the exemption
from all property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this
Article, and in consideration of the Sponsor's offer, subject to assumption of
the initial Mortgage Loan from the USDA Rural Development program and the
receipt of a supplemental Mortgage Loan from the USDA Rural Development
program, and an allocation under the LIHTC program, to renovate, own and
operate the Low Income Family Housing Development, agrees to accept payment of
an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all property taxes.
   The annual service charge shall be equal to ten (10) percent of the annual
shelter rents, but in no event less than $18,000. Beginning in 2010, the annual
service charge shall be the greater of: (1) ten (10) percent of the annual
shelter rents; or (2) $18,000 PLUS a percentage increase equal to the net
percentage increase in the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics "Chained Consumer
Price Index for All Urban Consumers: U.S. City Average for all Items,
Expenditure Categories and Commodity and Service Groups" (December 1999=100)
(the "C-CPI-U") from the C-CPI-U as published in January 2008 and the C-CPI-
U published in January of the year in which the service charge is due. (Ord. O-
07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-29.   Limitation on the Payment of the Annual Service Charge.
   Notwithstanding Section 4-28, the service charge to be paid each year in
lieu of taxes for the part of the Housing Development that is tax exempt and
which is occupied at any time during each year by other than low income
families or persons shall be equal to the full amount of the annual property
taxes, based on the total property tax millage rate of all taxing jurisdictions
in effect at the time such occupancy occurs, which would have been paid on that
portion of the Housing Development if the Housing Development were not tax
exempt. The benefits of any tax exemption granted under this Article shall be
allocated by the owner of the Housing Development exclusively to low income
families in the form of reduced housing charges. The term "low income families"
as used herein shall be the same meaning found in Section 15(a)(7) of the Act.
(Ord. O-07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-30.   Payment of the Service Charge.
   The annual service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this Article
shall commence in the calendar year in which initial occupancy of the Low
Income Family Housing Development owned by the Sponsor occurs. The service
charge in lieu of taxes shall be payable in the same manner as general property
taxes are payable to the City except that the annual payment shall be paid on
or before August 10th of each year.
   Should the Sponsor's payment of the annual Service Charge be received by the
City after August 10th of each year it is due, then the City shall apply an
initial four (4) percent penalty to the amount due. The original service
charge, plus the four (4) percent penalty, shall accrue interest at the rate of
one (1) percent per month compounded monthly, beginning from the first day the
payment is delinquent. In addition to the penalty and the accrued interest, the
City may use any legal remedies at its disposal to secure payment of the
service charge, plus any penalty and interest. ( Ord. O-07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-31.   Duration.
   This Article shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as the
assumed USDA Rural Development Mortgage Loan or the initial supplemental USDA
Rural Development Mortgage Loan remains outstanding and unpaid or the Housing
Development remains subject to income and rent restrictions pursuant to Section
42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Provided, however that
renovation of the Low Income Family Housing Development commences within one
year from the effective date of this Article. Provided further that the term of
this Article shall not exceed thirty (30) years, regardless of whether the
assumed or initial supplemental USDA Rural Development Mortgage Loans remain
outstanding or unpaid or the Low Income Family Housing Development remains
subject to any income or rent restrictions. At the end of the thirty- (30) year
term, the Meadow Hills North Low Income Family Apartment Development shall no
longer be exempt from ad valorem property taxes and shall be placed on the ad
valorem property tax roll by the City Assessor and City Treasurer at its
assessed value at the time the exemption terminates.
   Any significant change of the Low Income Family Housing Development's
original or initial public or private financing, refinancing, ownership, or
other similar factors shall automatically trigger a review by the City Council
of the facts, conditions, acknowledgments, rates of return and any other aspect
of the Sponsor's and other partners' or entities' participation in the
Development. If the Council's review determines, in its reasonable yet sole
determination, that there were or would be significant changes in the intent,
return on investment, or any other facet of the Development as originally
proposed by the Sponsor and as acknowledged and agreed to in this Article, then
the City Council reserves the right to modify, continue or cancel the tax
exemption for the Meadow Hills Low Income Family Housing Development. (Ord. O-
07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-32.   Review and Audit of Sponsor's Records.
   The Sponsor shall permit the City, its appointed representatives, advisors
or financial auditing firm(s) to periodically conduct an audit of the annual
financial records of the project to determine the accuracy of the data used and
the calculations made to determine the PILOT amounts. If an audit reveals an
underpayment by the Sponsor of more than ten (10) percent of the PILOT as
calculated and paid by the Sponsor to the City in any one year, then the
Sponsor shall be required to pay the City for the costs of the audit. (Ord. O-
07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-33.   Contractual Effect of this Article.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 15(a)(5) of the Act to the
contrary, a contract between the City and the Sponsor, with the Authority as
third-party beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax exemption and accept
payments in lieu of taxes, as previously described, is effectuated by enactment
of this Article. However, the City reserves its rights to pursue other legal
remedies to enforce provisions of this Article. (Ord. O-07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-34.   Severability.
   The various sections and provisions of this Article shall be deemed to be
severable and should any section or provision of this Article be declared by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same
shall not affect the validity of the Article as a whole or any section or
provision of this Article other than the section or provision so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. O-07-06, 11-19-07)
Sec. 4-35.   Effective Date.
   This Article shall take effect ten (10) days after publication thereof.
(Ord. O-07-06, 11-19-07)
Article IV. Tax Exemption for Certain Existing Multi-Family Housing Serving Low
Income Citizens
Sec. 4-36. Title.
   This Article shall be known and cited as the City of Fremont “Existing
Multi-Family Low Income Housing Tax Exemption” Article. (O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-37. Preamble.
   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of
low income and to encourage the development of such housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the Michigan State
Housing Development Authority (MSHDA) Act of 1966 (1966 PA 346, as amended,
MCLA Section 125.1401 et. seq.) The City of Fremont is authorized by this Act
to establish or change the service charge to be paid in lieu of ad valorem
property taxes by any or all classes of housing exempt from taxation under this
Act at any amount it chooses, not to exceed the taxes that would be paid but
for this Act. It is further acknowledged that such the preservation of existing
housing for persons of low income is a public necessity, and because the City
of Fremont will be benefited and improved by such housing, the encouragement of
the same by providing certain real estate tax exemption for such housing is a
valid public purpose; further, that the provisions of this Article for tax
exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during the period
contemplated in this Article are essential to the determination of economic
feasibility of housing developments that are constructed, renovated and/or
financed in reliance on such tax exemption.
   The City of Fremont acknowledges that the Werth Investments, LLC has, on its
own behalf, created a new ownership entity named the JPS Fremont Limited
Dividend Housing Association Limited Partnership also known as JPS Fremont for
short (hereinafter the “Sponsor”). The Sponsor has offered, subject to receipt
of an allocation under the federal Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC)
program and the assumption of an existing Mortgage Loan from USDA Rural
Development to renovate, own and operate housing developments identified as:
   1)   Apple Ridge Family Apartments, 318 Dewitte Ave., Fremont, MI (32 units)
(62-13-34-300-042)
   2)   Greenfield Manor Apartments, 228 Dewitte Ave., Fremont, MI (26 units)
(62-13-34-300-041)
   3)   Oak Creek Village Apartments, 1101 & 1103 W. Main St., Fremont, MI (32
units) (62-13-34-400-037)
   4)   Peachtree Village Apartments, 1100, 1102 & 1104 State St., Fremont, MI
(20 units) (62-13-34-400-036)
in the City of Fremont to serve citizens of low income. Werth Investements, LLC
shall be the General Partner. The Sponsor has offered to pay the City of
Fremont on account of this housing development an annual service charge for
public services in lieu of property taxes. (Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-38. Definitions.
   All terms not herein defined shall have the meanings given them in the State
Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, being Public Act 346 of 1966, of the
State of Michigan, as amended.
   (a)   “Act” means the State Housing Development Authority Act, being
Michigan Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended.
   (b)   “Annual Shelter Rent” means the total collections during an agreed
annual period from all occupants of a housing development representing rent or
occupancy charges, exclusive of charges for utilities as defined in Subsection
(j) of this Section, which are furnished to and used by the occupants.
   (c)   “Authority” means the Michigan State Housing Development Authority
(MSHDA).
   (d)   “Commitment for Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC’s)” means the
commitment for the tax credits allocated by the Authority to the sponsor under
provisions of Section 42(m)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended.
   (e)   “Low or Moderate Income Families” means families who cannot afford to
pay the amounts at which private enterprise, without federally-aided mortgages
or loans from the Authority, is providing a substantial supply of decent, safe
and sanitary housing and who fall within income limitations set in the Act or
by the Authority in its rules.
   (f)   “Mortgage Loan” means the assumption of the existing mortgage loans
made by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Rural Development Program to the
Sponsor for the construction, renovation and/or long-term financing of the
Housing Development.
   (g)   “Multi-Family Existing Housing Development” means the rental housing
development that contains the 110 units of housing for low and moderate income
families and such other elements of housing, commercial, recreational, communal
and educational facilities that the City may subsequently approve and that the
developer determines necessary to maintain the quality of the development for
its stated purpose.
   (h)   “Rural Development” means the United States Department of Agriculture
– Rural Development through the Rural Rental Housing Program under Section 515
of the Federal Housing Act of 1949, as amended.
   (i)   “Sponsor” means JPS Fremont, a Michigan-limited partnership, which
will apply for a commitment from the Authority for a LIHTC allocation and the
assumption of existing Mortgage Loans from the USDA Rural Development program.
   (j)   “Taxing jurisdiction” means a municipality, county or district,
including a school district or any special district having the power to levy or
collect ad valorem taxes upon real or personal property or in whose behalf
taxes may be levied or collected.
   (k)   “Utilities” mean only those essential for heating/cooling fuel, water,
sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service that are paid by the Housing
Development and used by the family occupants. The definition of “utilities”
hereby excludes all other utilities or services including, but not limited to,
video/audio, data, computer, Internet, telephone, television or radio services
received via any electronic, mechanical or other means (cable, satellite or
wireless and all others now or in the future.) (Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-39. Class of Housing Development.
   It is determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the tax
exemption under this Article shall apply and for which a service charge shall
be paid in lieu of such property taxes shall be 110-unit multi-family housing
developments that exist in the City of Fremont at the time of adoption of this
Article that provide housing to families of low income; and which are financed
or assisted pursuant to the Act; and which receive an allocation of federal Low
Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC); and which will assume an existing USDA
Rural Development Loan; and which will be owned, rehabilitated and managed by a
the Sponsor or its authorized agent; and which will invest an average of at
least $31,000 per unit ($3,500,000 total) to renovate and update the Housing
Development.
It is hereby determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the tax
exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu of
such taxes shall be all 110 units in the Apple Ridge Family, Greenfield Manor,
Oak Creek Village and Peachtree Village Apartments Housing Developments, owned,
renovated, operated and developed by the Sponsor and rented to eligible
families under provisions of the commitment for low income housing tax credits
and the Mortgage Loan transferred to the Sponsor by the USDA Rural Development
program.
   It is further determined that the above listed Apartment Developments, as
described and acknowledged in Section
4-37 “Preamble” of this Article, is of this class. (Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-40. Establishment of an Annual Service Charge.
   The Housing Developments described in Section
4-37 “Preamble” to be renovated shall be exempt from all ad valorem property
taxes from and after the commencement of renovation, as further limited,
however by this Article. Said renovation shall commence within one year and be
completed within two years of the effective date of this Article will be
revoked and any and all ad valorem property taxes that were waived shall become
due.
   The City of Fremont, acknowledging that the Sponsor and the Authority have
established the economic feasibility of the existing Low Income Family Housing
Development in reliance upon the enactment and effect of this Article and the
qualification of the Low Income Family Housing Development for the exemption
from all property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this
Article, and in consideration of the Sponsor’s offer, subject to assumption of
the initial Mortgage Loan from the USDA Rural Development program and an
allocation under the LIHTC program, to renovate, own and operate the Low Income
Family Housing Development, agrees to accept payment of an annual service
charge for public services in lieu of all property taxes.
   The annual service charge shall be equal to ten percent (10%) of the annual
shelter rents, but in no event less than $31,000. Beginning in 2013, the annual
service charge shall be the greater of: (1) ten percent (10%) of the annual
shelter rents; or (2) $31,000. (Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-41. Limitation on the Payment of the Annual Service Charge.
   Notwithstanding Section
4-40, the service charge to be paid each year in lieu of taxes for the part of
the Housing Development that is tax exempt and which is occupied at any time
during each year by other than low income families or persons shall be equal to
the full amount of the annual property taxes, based on the total property tax
millage rate of all taxing jurisdictions in effect at the time such occupancy
occurs, which would have been paid on that portion of the Housing Development
if the Housing Development were not tax exempt. The benefits of any tax
exemption granted under this Article shall be allocated by the owner of the
Housing Development exclusively to low income families in the form of reduced
housing charges. The term “low income families” as used herein shall be the
same meaning found in Section 15(a)(7) of the Act. (Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-42. Payment of the Service Charge.
   The annual service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this Article
shall commence in the calendar year in which initial occupancy of the Low
Income Family Housing Development owned by the Sponsor occurs. The service
charge in lieu of taxes shall be payable in the same manner as general property
taxes are payable to the City of Fremont except that the annual payment shall
be paid on or before August 10th of each year.
   Should the Sponsor’s payment of the annual Service Charge be received by the
City after August 10th of each year it is due, then the City shall apply an
initial four percent (4%) penalty to the amount due. The original service
charge, plus the 4% penalty, shall accrue interest at the rate of 1% per month
compounded monthly, beginning from the first day the payment is delinquent. In
addition to the penalty and the accrued interest, the City may use any legal
remedies at its disposal to secure payment of the service charge, plus any
penalty and interest. (Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-43. Duration.
   This Article shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as the
assumed USDA Rural Development Mortgage Loan remains outstanding and unpaid or
the Housing Development remains subject to income and rent restrictions
pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Provided, however that renovation of the Low Income Family Housing Development
commences within one year and is completed within two years from the effective
date of this Article.
Provided further that the term of this Article shall not exceed thirty (30)
years, regardless of whether the assumed USDA Rural Development Mortgage Loans
remain outstanding or unpaid or the Low Income Family Housing Development
remains subject to any income or rent restrictions. At the end of the thirty-
(30-) year, or earlier term, the aforementioned Apartment Developments shall no
longer be exempt from ad valorem property taxes and shall be placed on the ad
valorem property tax roll by the City Assessor and City Treasurer at its
assessed value at the time the exemption terminates. Any significant change of
the Low Income Family Housing Development’s original or initial public or
private financing, refinancing, ownership, or other similar factors shall
automatically trigger a review by the Fremont City Council of the facts,
conditions, acknowledgments, rates of return and any other aspect of the
Sponsor’s and other partners’ or entities’ participation in the Development. If
the Council’s review determines, in its reasonable yet sole determination, that
there were or would be significant changes in the intent, return on investment,
or any other facet of the Development as originally proposed by the Sponsor and
as acknowledged and agreed to in this Article, then the City Council reserves
the right to modify, continue or cancel the tax exemption for the
aforementioned Housing Development. (Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-44. Review and Audit of Sponsor's Records.
   The Sponsor shall permit the City, its appointed representatives, advisors
or financial auditing firm(s) to periodically conduct an audit of the annual
financial records of the project to determine the accuracy of the data used and
the calculations made to determine the PILOT amounts. If an audit reveals an
underpayment by the Sponsor of more than ten percent (10%) of the PILOT as
calculated and paid by the Sponsor to the City in any one year, then the
Sponsor shall be required to pay the City for the costs of the audit. (Ord. O-
11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-45. Contractual Effect of this Article.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 15(a)(5) of the Act to the
contrary, a contract between the City of Fremont and the Sponsor, with the
Authority as third-party beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax
exemption and accept payments in lieu of taxes, as previously described, is
effectuated by enactment of this Article. However, the City reserves its rights
to pursue other legal remedies to enforce provisions of this Article. (Ord. O-
11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-46. Severability.
   The various sections and provisions of this Article shall be deemed to be
severable and should any section or provision of this Article be declared by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same
shall not affect the validity of the Article as a whole or any section or
provision of this Article other than the section or provision so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Sec. 4-47. Effective Date.
   This Article shall take effect ten (10) days after publication thereof.
(Ord. O-11-06, 7-18-11)
Article V. Tax Exemption for Certain Multi-Family Housing Serving Low Income
Seniors
Sec. 4-48. Title.
   This Article shall be known and cited as the City of Fremont "New Low Income
Senior Housing Tax Exemption" Article. (Ord. O-12-04, 7-16-12)
Sec. 4-49. Preamble.
   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of
low income and to encourage the development of such housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the Michigan State
Housing Development Authority (MSHDA) Act of 1966 (1966 PA 346, as amended,
MCLA Section 125.1401 et. seq.) The City of Fremont is authorized by this Act
to establish or change the service charge to be paid in lieu of ad valorem
property taxes by any or all classes of housing exempt from taxation under this
Act at any amount it chooses, not to exceed the taxes that would be paid but
for this Act. It is further acknowledged that such the preservation of existing
housing for persons of low income is a public necessity, and because the City
of Fremont will be benefited and improved by such housing, the encouragement of
the same by providing certain real estate tax exemption for such housing is a
valid public purpose; further, that the provisions of this Article for tax
exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during the period
contemplated in this Article are essential to the determination of economic
feasibility of housing developments that are constructed, renovated and/or
financed in reliance on such tax exemption.
   The City of Fremont acknowledges that Home Renewal Systems, LLC has, on its
own behalf, created a new ownership entity named The Fremont Gateway Limited
Dividend Housing Association Limited Partnership also known as Fremont Gateway
for short (hereinafter the "Sponsor"). The Sponsor has offered, subject to
receipt of an allocation under the federal Low Income Housing Tax Credit
(LIHTC) program and securing appropriate financing to renovate, own and operate
housing developments identified as portions of:
   1)   The former Fremont High School Building, 204 E. Main Street, Fremont,
MI (62-17-02-230-006) in the City of Fremont to serve senor citizens of low
income. Home Renewal Systems, LLC shall be the General Partner. The Sponsor has
offered to pay the City of Fremont on account of this housing development an
annual service charge for public services in lieu of property taxes. (Ord. O-
12-04, 7-16-12)
Sec. 4-50. Definitions.
   All terms not herein defined shall have the meanings given them in the State
Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, being Public Act 346 of 1966, of the
State of Michigan, as amended.
   (a)   "Act" means the State Housing Development Authority Act, being
Michigan Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended.
   (b)   "Annual Shelter Rent" means the total collections during an agreed
annual period from all occupants of a housing development representing rent or
occupancy charges, exclusive of charges for utilities as defined in Subsection
(j) of this Section, which are furnished to and used by the occupants.
   (c)   "Authority" means the Michigan State Housing Development Authority
(MSHDA).
   (d)   "Commitment for low income housing tax credits (LIHTC's)" means the
commitment for the tax credits allocated by the Authority to the sponsor under
provisions of Section 42(m)(1)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended.
   (e)   "Housing Development" means the rental housing development that
contains 38 units of houses, of which 30 units will be for low and moderate
income seniors and such other elements of housing, recreational and communal
facilities that the City may subsequently approve and that the developer
determines necessary to maintain the quality of the development for its stated
purpose. This Housing Development will be contained within the circa 1927
portion of the former Fremont High School.
   (f)   "Low or moderate income families" means families who cannot afford to
pay the amounts at which private enterprise, without federally-aided mortgages
or loans from the Authority, is providing a substantial supply of decent, safe
and sanitary housing and who fall within income limitations set in the Act or
by the Authority in its rules.
   (g)   "Rural Development" means the United States Department of Agriculture
- Rural Development through the Rural Rental Housing Program under Section 515
of the Federal Housing Act of 1949, as amended.
   (h)   "Sponsor" means Fremont Gateway, a Michigan-limited partnership, which
will apply for a commitment from the Authority for an LIHTC allocation and
apply for all financing required for the project.
   (i)   "Taxing jurisdiction" means a municipality, county or district,
including a school district or any special district having the power to levy or
collect ad valorem taxes upon real or personal property or on whose behalf
taxes may be levied or collected.
   (j)   "Utilities" mean only those essential for heating/cooling fuel, water,
sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service that are paid by the Housing
Development and used by the family occupants. The definition of "utilities"
hereby excludes all other utilities or services including, but not limited to,
video/audio, data, computer, Internet, telephone, television or radio services
received via any electronic, mechanical or other means (cable, satellite or
wireless and all others now or in the future). (Ord. O-12-04, 7-16-12)
Sec. 4-51. Class of Housing Development.
   It is determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the tax
exemption under this Article shall apply and for which a service charge shall
be paid in lieu of such property taxes shall be a 38-unit senior housing
developments in the City of Fremont at the time of adoption of this Article
that will provide housing to seniors of low income; and which are financed or
assisted pursuant to the Act; and which receive an allocation of federal Low
Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC); and which will be owned, rehabilitated and
managed by the Sponsor or its authorized agent; and which will invest an
average of at least $29,000 per unit ($1,102,000 total) to renovate and
adaptively reuse the former high school into a Housing Development.
   It is further determined that the above listed Housing Development, as
described and acknowledged in Section
4-49 "Preamble" of this Article, is of this class. (Ord. O-12-04, 7-16-12)
Sec. 4-52. Establishment of an Annual Service Charge.
   The Housing Development described in Section
4-49 "Preamble" to be created shall be exempt from all ad valorem property
taxes from and after the commencement of renovation, as further limited,
however by this Article. Said renovation shall commence within two years and be
completed within three years of the effective date of this Article or this
Article will be revoked and any and all ad valorem property taxes that were
waived shall become due.
   The City of Fremont, acknowledging that the Sponsor and the Authority have
established the economic feasibility of the existing Low Income Senior Housing
Development in reliance upon the enactment and effect of this Article and the
qualification of the Low Income Senior Housing Development for the exemption
from all property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this
Article, and in consideration of the Sponsor's offer, subject securing all
necessary financing and an allocation under the LIHTC program, to renovate, own
and operate the Senior Housing Development, agrees to accept payment of an
annual service charge for public services in lieu of all property taxes.
   The annual service charge shall be equal to ten percent (10%) of the total
annual shelter rents, but in no event less than $21,000. Beginning in 2013, the
annual service charge shall be the greater of: (1) ten percent (10%) of the
annual shelter rents; or (2) $21,000. (Ord. O-12-04, 7-16-12; Ord. O-14-02, 5-
19-14)
Sec. 4-53. Reserved.
Sec. 4-54. Payment of the Service Charge.
   The annual service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this Article
shall commence in the calendar year in which initial occupancy of the Senior
Housing Development owned by the Sponsor occurs. The service charge in lieu of
taxes shall be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are payable
to the City of Fremont except that the annual payment shall be paid on or
before August 10th of each year.
   Should the Sponsor's payment of the annual Service Charge be received by the
City after August 10th of each year it is due, then the City shall apply an
initial four percent (4%) penalty to the amount due. The original service
charge, plus the four percent (4%) penalty, shall accrue interest at the rate
of one percent (1%) per month compounded monthly; beginning from the first day
the payment is delinquent. In addition to the penalty and the accrued interest,
the City may use any legal remedies at its disposal to secure payment of the
service charge, plus any penalty and interest. (Ord. O-12-04, 7-16-12)
Sec. 4-55. Duration.
   This Article shall remain in effect and shall not terminate for 45 years so
long as the Housing Development remains subject to income and rent restrictions
pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Provided, however that renovation of the Senior Housing Development commences
within two years and is completed within three years from the effective date of
this Article. At the end of the forty-fifth (45) year, or earlier term, the
aforementioned Housing Development shall no longer be exempt from ad valorem
property taxes and shall be placed on the ad valorem property tax roll by the
City Assessor and City Treasurer at its assessed value at the time the
exemption terminates.
   Any significant change of the Senior Housing Development's original or
initial public or private financing, refinancing, ownership, or other similar
factors shall automatically trigger a review by the Fremont City Council of the
facts, conditions, acknowledgments, rates of return and any other aspect of the
Sponsor's and other partners' or entities' participation in the Housing
Development. If the Council's review determines, in its reasonable yet sole
determination, that there were or would be significant changes in the intent,
return on investment, or any other facet of the Housing Development as
originally proposed by the Sponsor and as acknowledged and agreed to in this
Article, then the City Council reserves the right to modify, continue or cancel
the tax exemption for the aforementioned Housing Development. (Ord. O-12-04, 7-
16-12; Ord. O-14-02, 5-19-14)
Sec. 4-56. Review and Audit of Sponsor's Records.
   The Sponsor shall permit the City, its appointed representatives, advisors
or financial auditing firm(s) to periodically conduct an audit of the annual
financial records of the project to determine the accuracy of the data used and
the calculations made to determine the PILOT amounts. If an audit reveals an
underpayment by the Sponsor of more than ten percent (10%) of the PILOT as
calculated and paid by the Sponsor to the City in any one year, then the
Sponsor shall be required to pay the City for the costs of the audit. (Ord. O-
12-04, 7-16-12)
Sec. 4-57. Contractual Effect of this Article.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 15(a)(5) of the Act to the
contrary, a contract between the City of Fremont and the Sponsor, with the
Authority as third-party beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax
exemption and accept payments in lieu of taxes, as previously described, is
effectuated by enactment of this Article. However, the City reserves its rights
to pursue other legal remedies to enforce provisions of this Article. (Ord. O-
12-04, 7-16-12)
Sec. 4-58. Severability.
   The various sections and provisions of this Article shall be deemed to be
severable and should any section or provision of this Article be declared by
any court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, the same
shall not affect the validity of the Article as a whole or any section or
provision of this Article other than the section or provision so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. O-12-04, 7-16-12)
Sec. 4-59. Effective Date.
   This Article shall take effect ten (10) days after publication thereof.
(Ord. O-12-04, 7-16-12)
CHAPTER 5.
BLIGHT CONTROL
   Article I. Blighted Buildings
§ 5-1   Title
§ 5-2   Definitions of Terms
§ 5-3   Prohibition of Blighted Buildings
§ 5-4   Notice of Blighted Buildings; Hearing
§ 5-5   Blighted Building Hearing Officer; Duties; Hearing; Order
§ 5-6   Enforcement Hearing before the City Council or Blighted Building Board
of Appeals
§ 5-7   Implementation and Enforcement of Remedies
§ 5-8   Penalty for Nonconformance with the Article or an Order
§ 5-9   Blighted Building Board of Appeals
§ 5-10   Appeal of City Council/Board of Appeals Decision
§§ 5-11- 5-15   Reserved
   Article II. Weeds and Noxious Vegetation
§ 5-16   Weeds and Noxious Vegetation Generally
§ 5-17   Weed Control Map
§ 5-18   Authority of City Manager to Abate Nuisance; Notice of Filing of Weed
Control Map
§ 5-19   Abatement and Costs of Abatement of Nuisances
§ 5-20   Nuisance Per Se
§ 5-21   Civil Infraction Penalties
   Article III. Outdoor Storage/Junk
§ 5-22   Definitions
§ 5-23   Prohibited Conduct
§ 5-24   Notice
§ 5-25   Exceptions
§ 5-26   Permits
§ 5-27   Permits: Denial or Revocation; Hearing; Review
§ 5-28   Nuisance Per Se
§ 5-29   Failure to Remove or Eliminate the Condition -Abatement of Nuisance
§ 5-30   Appeal
§ 5-31   Emergency Abatement
§ 5-32   Civil Infractions Penalties
§§ 5-33 - 5-34   Reserved
§ 5-35   Severability
§ 5-36   Repeal
§ 5-37   Effective Date
§ 5-38 - 5-39   Reserved
ARTICLE I -- BLIGHTED BUILDINGS
Sec. 5-1. TITLE
This Article shall be known and cited as the Blighted Buildings Article. (Ord.
O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-2. DEFINITIONS OF TERMS
   As used in this Article, including in this Section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings stated herein:
   (a)   "Blighted building" means any building or structure, residential or
otherwise, that has one or more of the following defects or is in one or more
of the following conditions:
      1.   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit does not
conform to the City Fire Code or City Building Code.
      2.   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood or other cause so that the structural strength or stability of the
building or structure is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe
and does not meet the minimum requirements of the Housing Law of the State of
Michigan, Act No. 167 of the Public Acts of 1917, as amended, being section
125.401 et seq. of the Michigan Compiled Laws, or the City Building Code for a
new building or structure, purpose or location.
      3.   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or collapse, and injure persons or damage property.
      4.   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an extent
that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure have
materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by the Housing Law of the State of Michigan, Act No. 167 of the
Public Acts of 1917, as amended, being Section 125.401 et seq. of the Michigan
Compiled Laws, or the City Building Code.
      5.   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or
for other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give way.
      6.   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
      7.   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood, or is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, or becomes a harbor
for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to the
building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful or immoral act.
      8.   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or
unfit for human habitation, is in the condition that the health officer of the
county determines is likely to cause sickness or disease, or is likely to
injure the health, safety or general welfare of people living in the dwelling.
      9.   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated and open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
      10.   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease or rent with a real estate broker licensed under Article 25 of the
Occupational Code, Act No. 299 of the Public Acts of 1980, being Sections
339.2501 et seq. of the Michigan Compiled Laws, or is not publicly offered for
sale by the owner. This subdivision does not apply to either of the following:
   (a)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both of
the following:
      1.   Notifies the City Police Department that the building or structure
will remain unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive days. The owner or agent
shall give the notice not more than 30 days after the building or structure
becomes unoccupied.
      2.   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and adjoining
grounds in accordance with this Article and the Housing Law of the State of
Michigan Act No. 167 of the Public Acts of 1917, as amended, being Section
125.401 et seq. of the Michigan Compiled Laws, or the City Building Code.
   (b)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied for a
period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies the City Police
Department that the dwelling will remain unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or more each year. An owner who has given the notice
prescribed by this subparagraph shall notify the City Police Department not
more than 30 days after the dwelling no longer qualifies for this exception. As
used in this subparagraph, "secondary dwelling" means a dwelling such as a
vacation home, hunting cabin or summer home, that is occupied by the owner or a
member of the owner's family during part of the year.
   (b)   "Enforcing agency" means this City, through the City Building Official
and/or such other official(s) or agency as may be designated by the City
Council to enforce this Article.
   (c)   "City Building Code" means the building code administered and enforced
in the City pursuant to the State Construction Code Commission Act, Act No. 230
of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, being Section 125.1501 et seq. of the
Michigan Compiled Laws, or adopted pursuant to any other state law. (Ord. O-02-
01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-3 PROHIBITION OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
building or part thereof, which is a dangerous building as defined in this
Article. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-4 NOTICE OF BLIGHTED BUILDINGS; HEARING
   (a)   Notice Requirement. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Article, if a building or structure is found to be a dangerous building, the
enforcing agency shall issue a notice that the building or structure is a
dangerous building.
   (b)   Parties Entitled to Notice. The notice shall be served on each owner
of or a party in interest in the building or structure in whose name the
property appears on the last local tax assessment record of the City.
   (c)   Contents of Notice. The notice shall specify the time and place of a
hearing on whether the building or structure is a dangerous building and state
that the person to whom the notice is directed shall have the opportunity at
the hearing to show cause why the Hearing Officer should not order the building
or structure to be demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (d)   Service of Notice. The notice shall be in writing and shall be served
upon the person to whom the notice is directed either personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in
interest at the address shown on the tax records. If a notice is served upon a
person by certified mail, a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a
conspicuous part of the building or structure. The notice shall be served upon
the owner or party in interest at least ten (10) days before the date of the
hearing included in the notice. (Ord. O-02- 01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-5 BLIGHTED BUILDING HEARING OFFICER; DUTIES; HEARING; ORDER
   (a)   Appointment of Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer shall be appointed
by the City Council to serve at his or her pleasure. The Hearing Officer shall
be a person who has expertise in housing matters, including, but not limited
to, an engineer, architect, building contractor, building inspector or member
of a community housing organization. An employee of the enforcing agency shall
not be appointed as a Hearing Officer.
   (b)   Filing Blighted Building Notice with Hearing Officer. The enforcing
agency shall file a copy of the notice of the dangerous condition of any
building with Hearing Officer.
   (c)   Hearing Testimony and Decision. At a hearing prescribed by this
Article, the Hearing Officer shall take testimony of the enforcing agency, the
owner of the property, and any interested party. Not more than five (5) days
after completion of the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall render a decision
either closing the proceedings or ordering that the building or structure be
demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (d)   Compliance with Hearing Officer Order. If the Hearing Officer
determines that the building or structure should be demolished, otherwise made
safe, or properly maintained, the Hearing Officer shall so order, fixing a time
in the order for the owner, agent or lessee to comply with the order. If the
building is a blighted building under Section 5.2 (a) (10) of this Article, the
order may alternately require that the owner or agent repair the building and
thereafter maintain the exterior of the building and adjoining grounds owned by
the owner of the building including, but not limited to, the maintenance of
lawns, trees and shrubs. If a building is permitted by the order to remain, the
Hearing Officer may attach reasonable conditions to the order.
   (e)   Noncompliance with Hearing Officer Order/Request to Enforce Order. If
the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses to comply
with the order issued under Section 5.5 (d) of this Article, the Hearing
Officer shall file a report of the findings and a copy of the order with the
City Council and request that necessary action be taken to enforce the order.
If the City Council has established a Blighted Building Board of Appeals
pursuant to Section 5.9 of this Article, the Hearing Officer shall also file
the report of the findings and a copy of the order with the Board of Appeals. A
copy of the findings and order of the Hearing Officer shall be served on the
owner, agent or lessee in the manner prescribed in Section 5.4 (d) of this
Article. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-6 ENFORCEMENT HEARING BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OR BLIGHTED BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS
   The City Council or the Blighted Building Board of Appeals, as applicable,
shall fix a date not less than thirty (30) days after the hearing prescribed in
Section 5.5 (c) of this Article, or seven (7) days after the notice of
noncompliance is made, whichever occurs later, for a hearing on the findings
and order of the Hearing Officer and shall give notice to the owner, agent or
lessee in the manner prescribed in Section 5.4 (d) of this Article of the time
and place of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner, agent or lessee shall be
given the opportunity to show cause why the order should not be enforced. The
City Council or the Board of Appeals shall approve, disapprove or modify the
order. If the City Council or the Board of Appeals approves or modifies the
order, the City Council shall take all necessary action to enforce the order.
If the order is approved or modified, the owner, agent or lessee shall comply
with the order within sixty (60) days after the date of the hearing under this
section. In the case of an order for demolition, if the City Council or the
Board of Appeals determines that the building or structure has been
substantially destroyed by fire, wind, flood or other natural disaster or that
the condition of the building is severe and the cost of repair of the building
or structure will be greater than the state equalized value of the building or
structure, the owner, agent or lessee shall comply with the order of demolition
within twenty-one (21) days after the date of the hearing under this section.
(Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-7 IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REMEDIES
   (a)   Implementation of Order by City. In the event of the failure or
refusal of the owner or party in interest to comply with the decision of the
City Council, or the Board of Appeals, as applicable, the City Council may, in
its discretion, contract for the demolition, making safe or maintaining the
exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure.
   (b)   Reimbursement of Costs. The costs of the demolition, of making the
building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or
grounds adjoining the building or structure, incurred by the City to bring the
property into conformance with this Article shall be reimbursed to the City by
the owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears.
   (c)   Notice of Costs. The owner or party in interest in whose name the
property appears upon the last local tax assessment records shall be notified
by the City assessor of the amount of the costs of the demolition, of making
the building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure
or grounds adjoining the building or structure, by first class mail at the
address shown on the City records.
   (d)   Lien for Unpaid Costs. If the owner or party in interest fails to pay
the costs within thirty (30) days after mailing by the assessor of the notice
of the amount of the cost, in the case of a single family dwelling or a two
family dwelling, the City shall have a lien for the costs incurred by the City
to bring the property into conformance with this Article. The lien shall not
take effect until notice of the lien has been filed or recorded as provided by
law. A lien provided for in this subsection does not have priority over
previously filed or recorded liens and encumbrances. The lien for the costs
shall be collected and treated in the same manner as provided for property tax
liens under the General Property Tax Act, Act No. 206 of the Public Acts of
1893, as amended, being Section 211.1 et seq. of the Michigan Compiled Laws.
   (e)   Court Judgment for Unpaid Costs. In addition to other remedies under
this Article, the City may bring an action against the owner of the building or
structure for the full cost of the demolition, of making the building safe, or
of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining
the building or structure. In the case of a single-family dwelling or a two
family dwelling, the City shall have a lien on the property for the amount of a
judgment obtained pursuant to this subsection. The lien provided for in this
subsection shall not take effect until notice of the lien is filed and recorded
as provided for by law. The lien does not have priority over prior filed or
recorded liens and encumbrances.
   (f)   Enforcement of Judgment. A judgment in an action brought pursuant to
Section 5.7 (e) of this Article may be enforced against assets of the owner
other than the building or structure.
   (g)   Lien for Judgment Amount. In the case of a single-family dwelling or a
two-family dwelling, the City shall have a lien for the amount of a judgment
obtained pursuant to Section 5.7 (e) of this Article against the owner's
interest in all real property located in this state that is owned in whole or
in part by the owner of the building or structure against which the judgment is
obtained. A lien provided for in this subsection does not take effect until
notice of the lien is filed or recorded as provided by law, and the lien does
not have priority over prior filed or recorded liens and encumbrances. (Ord. O-
02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-8 PENALTY FOR NONCONFORMANCE WITH THE ARTICLE OR AN ORDER
   A person who violates this Article or who fails or refuses to comply with an
order approved or modified by the City Council or Board of Appeals, as
applicable, under this Article within the time prescribed by that section is
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more than ninety
(90) days and/or a fine of not more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00). (Ord.
O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-9 BLIGHTED BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS
   (a)   Establishment and Duties. The City Council may establish a Blighted
Building Board of Appeals ("Board of Appeals") to hear all of the cases and
carry out all of the duties of the City Council described in Section 5.6 of
this Article. If the City Council establishes a Board of Appeals, the following
provisions of this section shall control the establishment and operation of the
Board of Appeals.
   (b)   Membership. The Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the City
Council and shall consist of the following members:
      1.   A building contractor;
      2.   A registered architect or engineer;
      3.   Two (2) members of the general public; and
      4.   An individual registered as a building official, plan reviewer or
inspector under the Building Officials and Inspectors Registration Act, Act No.
54 of the Public Acts of 1986, being Section 338.2301 et seq. of the Michigan
Compiled Laws. The individual may not be an employee of the enforcing agency.
   (c)   Terms. Board of Appeals members shall be appointed for three (3)
years, except that of the members first appointed, two (2) members shall serve
for one year, two members shall serve for two (2) years, and one member shall
serve for three (3) years. A vacancy created other than by expiration of a term
shall be filled for the balance of the unexpired term in the same manner as the
original appointment. A member may be re-appointed for additional terms.
   (d)   Officers. The Board of Appeals annually shall select a chairperson,
vice chairperson and other officers that the Board of Appeals considers
necessary.
   (e)   Quorum and Final Action Votes. A majority of the Board of Appeals
members appointed and serving constitutes a quorum. Final action of the Board
of Appeals shall be only by affirmative vote of a majority of the board members
appointed and serving.
   (f)   Compensation and Expenses. The City Council shall fix the amount of
any per diem compensation provided to the members of the Board of Appeals.
Expenses of the Board of Appeals incurred in the performance of official duties
may be reimbursed as provided by law for employees of the City Council.
   (g)   Open Meetings Act Applicable. A meeting of the Board of Appeals shall
be held pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, Act No. 267 of the Public Acts of
1976, as amended, being Section 15.261 et seq. of the Michigan Compiled Laws.
Public notice of the time, date and place of the meeting shall be given in the
manner required by the Open Meetings Act.
   (h)   Freedom of Information Act Applicable. A writing prepared, owned,
used, in the possession of, or retained by the Board of Appeals in the
performance of an official function shall be made available to the public
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, Act No. 442 of the Public Acts of
1976, as amended, being Section 15.231 et seq. of the Michigan Compiled Laws.
(Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-10 APPEAL OF CITY COUNCIL/BOARD OF APPEALS DECISION
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the City Council or the
Board of Appeals, as applicable, under Section 5-6 of this Article may appeal
the decision or order to the circuit court by filing a petition for an order of
superintending control within twenty (20) days from the date of the decision.
(Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Secs. 5-11 - 5-15 Reserved for future use.
ARTICLE II. WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION
Sec. 5-16 WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION - GENERALLY
   Within those areas in the city from time to time established by the City
Manager as hereinafter provided, no person shall permit or maintain on any
premises owned or occupied by him, the growth of weeds, grass or other rank
vegetation to a height greater than nine (9) inches or shall permit the
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush. No such occupant or owner shall
cause, suffer or allow poison ivy, Canada thistle, dodders, mustard, wild
carrot, bird weed, perennial sow-thistle, hoary alyssum, poison sumac, milkweed
or plants detrimental to the public health and welfare to grow on such
premises. It shall be the duty of such owner, tenant, overseer or other person
in control to cut or remove or destroy all such weeds, grass or rank, noxious
or harmful vegetation as often as may be required each year to ensure that the
height does not exceed nine (9) inches. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-17 WEED CONTROL MAP
   The City Manager shall, on or before March 1 of each year, prepare a map of
the city outlining those areas to be subject to weed control as provided in
section 5-16. The map shall exempt those areas of the city not subject to such
control and will set forth those areas to be mowed by the City to keep within
the intent of this Article. The map shall be known and identified as the “Weed
Control Map,” and a copy shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk
and available for examination and scrutiny at all times during business hours.
(Ord. O-02- 01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-18 AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER TO ABATE NUISANCE; NOTICE OF FILING OF WEED
CONTROL MAP
   The City Manager and his subordinates are hereby authorized to abate any
public nuisance defined in this Chapter.
   On or before March 1 of each year the City Manager shall cause a notice to
be placed in a newspaper of general circulation in the community that the weed
control map has been filed with the City Clerk and that he intends to enforce
the provisions of this Article designed to promote the sanitary conditions in
the city, control the growth of grass and weeds, control the placement of
decaying matter and control other nuisances provided therein. Such notice shall
be considered bona fide notice to all property owners, occupants or person in
control that the Article abating any nuisances as defined herein shall be
enforced. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-19 ABATEMENT AND COSTS OF ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE  
   Upon receipt of a complaint or notice as to the existence of any such
nuisance, the City Manager or his subordinate may abate or remove or cause to
be abated or removed such nuisance without further notice to such owner,
occupant or person in charge, and the actual cost of such abatement or removal
plus one hundred (100) percent shall be charged as a special assessment against
the premises where such nuisance exists and shall become a lien against such
premises at the same time and of the same character and effect and shall be
collectable in the same manner as the lien created by the city taxes assessed
against such lot or premises until paid. The levy or collection of such special
assessment shall not relieve any person violating any of the provisions of this
Article from a penalty prescribed for any violation thereof. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-
18-02)
Sec. 5-20 NUISANCE PER SE
   Permitting a violation of this Article on private premises is hereby
declared to constitute a nuisance per se. Upon application to any court of
competent jurisdiction, the Court may order the nuisance abated and/or the
violation restrained and enjoined. The enforcement of the Article by abatement
of any nuisance by the enforcing officer or by application to any court of
competent jurisdiction for abatement by judicial decree or writ shall not
preclude enforcement of the Article by the issuance of a municipal civil
infraction and the imposition of fines and costs. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-21 CIVIL INFRACTION PENALTIES
   Any person violating any provisions of this Article shall be responsible for
a civil infraction. The penalty for said offense shall be established from time
to time by Resolution of the City of Fremont City Council as determined
necessary by the City of Fremont. Repeat offenses shall be defined as a
violation of said Article that has been ticketed for within the past ninety
(90) days. It shall be the duty of the City Manager of the City of Fremont, or
authorized representative, to enforce the provisions of this Article. If, after
investigation, the City Manager, or authorized representative, determines that
a violation of the Article exists, he shall be authorized to issue a municipal
civil infraction citation to any person, firm, or corporation that is
responsible for violation of the provisions of this Article. Service of said
civil infraction citation or civil infraction notice shall be made in
accordance with the General Civil Infraction Ordinance adopted by the City of
Fremont. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
ARTICLE III. OUTDOOR STORAGE/JUNK
Sec. 5-22 DEFINITIONS
   (a)   The following words shall be defined as set forth in Chapter 1 of the
Michigan Vehicle Code, Act 300 of the Public Acts of 1949, MCLA 257.1 et seq.
as amended:
   Farm tractor      Highway      Implement of husbandry
    Motor vehicle   Owner   Registration    
   Salvage vehicle   Street         Special mobile equipment
    Vehicle
   (b)   "Appliances" means major household appliances such as stoves,
refrigerators, dishwashers, trash compactors, washers and dryers.
   (c)   "Box Spring" means a fabric case in which materials have been placed
or arranged for the purpose of providing support of a mattress, or an
arrangement of metal in such a manner as to provide support of a mattress.
   (d)   "Construction Materials" means materials, new or used, manufactured
for the purpose of inclusion in a building or appurtenances thereto such as
decks, porches, sidewalks and parking pads, and includes by way of example, but
not limitation, timber, lumber, paneling, drywall, bricks, concrete blocks,
broken concrete blocks or slabs, windows, doors, siding, roofing materials,
plywood, electrical and plumbing hardware and supplies, heating and cooling
equipment and supplies, which are not attached to or used or constructed in a
building or appurtenance thereto in such a manner as to be used for its
intended purposes, unless there is in force a valid and current building permit
issued by the authorized City building inspector or the designated
representative of the City for construction on said premises and such materials
are used in connection with such construction.
   (e)   "Dismantled Equipment" shall mean inoperable special mobile equipment
or equipment as defined herein from which a part or parts have been removed;
and the terms shall include within its meaning all parts, including wheels and
tracks, that have been removed from the special mobile equipment.
   (f)   "Dismantled Machinery" means inoperable machinery from which a part or
parts have been removed; and the term shall include within its meaning all
parts of whatever type that have been removed from a vehicle of any type.
   (g)   "Dismantled Vehicle" shall mean an inoperable vehicle from which a
part or parts have been removed; and the term shall include within its meaning
all parts, including tires, wheels and batteries, which have been removed from
a vehicle of any type.
   (h)   "Extracted or Processed Materials" means materials extracted from or
processed as a result of extraction from or harvesting from the earth, and
includes by way of example, but not limitation, timber, lumber, food products,
such as carrots and grain, gravel, sand and other minerals.
   (i)   "Equipment" means the implements used in an activity or operation.
   (j)   "Household Goods" means any item of personal property commonly used
for household purposes, including by way of example, but not limitation,
furniture, decorative items, such as pictures, frames and sculpture, pots and
pans, tableware, minor kitchen appliances, glassware, lamps, lawn mowers,
gardening utensils and tools, appliances, televisions, stereo and radio
equipment, computer hardware and software, recreational items, bicycles or
bicycle parts.
   (k)   "Inoperable Equipment" means equipment which by reason of accident,
neglect, mechanical condition, disrepair or other cause, is apparently not in
an operational or safe condition.
   (l)   "Inoperable Machinery" means machinery which by reason of accident,
neglect, mechanical condition, disrepair or other cause, is apparently not in
an operational or safe condition.
   (m)   "Inoperable special mobile equipment" shall mean special mobile
equipment, implements of husbandry and/or machinery normally used for
construction purposes, including bulldozers, backhoes and tractors (whether
wheeled or tracked), farm field and orchard tools, paving equipment and
construction equipment, which, by reason of accident, neglect, mechanical
condition, disrepair or other cause, is apparently not in an operational or
safe condition.
   (n)   "Inoperable Vehicle" shall mean any salvage vehicle and any vehicle,
which, by reason of accident, neglect, mechanical condition, disrepair or other
cause, is apparently not in an operational or safe condition as required by
Section 683 of said Michigan Vehicle Code, as amended. Inoperable vehicle shall
also mean any motor vehicle required to be registered by the Michigan Vehicle
Code if operated on the public streets, which does not have displayed on the
vehicle currently valid registration; and any vehicle, other than a motor
vehicle, which does not have displayed on the vehicle registration which has
been valid within the prior six (6) months.
   (o)   " Junk" means garbage, including decayed or decaying foodstuffs and
the containers thereof, refuse, waste, wastepaper, paper, newspaper more than
five (5) days old, discarded materials, scrap materials of whatever nature, and
other debris not otherwise herein classified and whether or not same could be
put to any reasonable use.
   (p)   "Machinery" means a mechanically, electrically or electrically
operated device for performing a task.
   (q)   "Mattresses" means a fabric case stuffed with soft foam or springy
material, or a similar case filled with water, manufactured for use as a bed.
   (r)   "Metal Part or Pieces" shall mean any part or piece, made or used for
whatever purpose, composed, entirely or in part, of metal, including by way of
example, but not of limitation, iron, steel, titanium, chrome, tin, or
aluminum, which is not attached to a structure, building, vehicle, equipment or
machinery in such a manner as to be used for its intended purpose.
   (s)   "Person" shall mean any private individual, firm, partnership,
company, corporation, entity or private organization of any kind.
   (t)   "Private premises" shall mean any lot or parcel of land owned by a
person, whether or not improved with a structure of any kind, and whether or
not inhabited or occupied, and shall include any yard, grounds, walks,
driveways, porches or steps belonging or appurtenant to any structure thereon.
   (u)   "Public place" shall mean any highway, street, sidewalk, alley, berm
or terrace, or other public way; and any and all parks, squares, spaces,
grounds and buildings owned by or the use of which is dedicated to any
governmental entity.
   (v)   "Tanks" means a container over ten (10) gallons in size manufactured
for the purpose of storing or holding liquids or gas.
   (w)   "Tires" means a band of rubber or other synthetic material
manufactured for the purpose of mounting on a rim and attachment to a vehicle,
toy or other machinery or equipment to allow transportation of same.
   (x)   "Travel Trailers" means a vehicular portable structure mounted on
wheels and of a size and weight as not to require special highway movement
permits when drawn by a stock passenger automobile with a fifth-wheel hitch
mounted on a motor vehicle, and is primarily designed, constructed, and used to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational camping or travel. This
definition is intended to encompass the term as defined in The General Property
Tax Act, MCLA 211.2a (4) and shall be deemed to include camping trailer as
defined therein. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-23 PROHIBITED CONDUCT
   (1)   No person shall anywhere within the City of Fremont for a period in
excess of two (2) weeks park, keep, maintain, accumulate, possess, allow to
occupy or permit to remain on private premises, or in a public place, any
inoperable or dismantled machinery, equipment, or the parts of same, metal
parts or pieces, household goods, appliances, mattresses, box springs,
construction materials, unlicensed, inoperable or dismantled vehicles,
inoperable special mobile equipment, or parts thereof, extracted or processed
materials, tires, junk, travel trailers, tanks or other personal property of
similar nature, unless same are housed entirely within an enclosed, roofed
building.
   (2)   Both the owner as well as the occupant or lessee of private premises,
and the owner of the inoperable or dismantled machinery, equipment, or the
parts of same, metal parts or pieces, household goods, appliances, mattresses,
box springs, construction materials, unlicensed inoperable or dismantled
vehicles, special mobile equipment, or parts thereof, extracted or processed
materials, tires, junk, travel trailers, tanks or other personal property of
similar nature, shall be deemed persons responsible under the provisions of
Section 5-22 above. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-24 NOTICE
   A notice of violation shall be served in the manner provided for by the
General Civil Infraction Ordinance adopted by the City of Fremont. (Ord. O-02-
01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-25 EXCEPTIONS
   The provisions of Section 5-23 shall not apply to the following persons, but
solely under the following conditions:
   (1)   Persons owning and/or operating a junk yard or a vehicle storage yard;
provided the same is properly licensed under the applicable provisions of
Fremont City ordinances and State of Michigan statutes; provided the same shall
be located in an area or zone providing for such use under the provisions of
the City of Fremont Zoning Ordinance and a certificate of occupancy for such
purpose has been properly issued.
   (2)   Persons holding a properly issued and currently valid permit as
provided for in Section 5-26 below.
   (3)   Persons storing special mobile equipment, provided the same is in
operable condition and provided such storage is a use which is in conformity
with the provisions of the City of Fremont Ordinances.
   (4)   Persons operating a vehicle repair facility registered under the
provisions of M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1301 et seq., as amended; provided, however, that
no vehicle awaiting repair shall be stored outside an enclosed, roofed building
for a cumulative total of more than sixty (60) days.
   (5)   Persons holding or conducting a yard sale in accordance with City
ordinances authorizing same.
   (6)   No more than two (2) of any combination of boat, camper, travel
trailer(s) or utility trailers may be stored outdoors on each parcel or lot,
but only in compliance with the City of Fremont Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. O-02-
01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-26 PERMITS
   Upon a showing of unusual hardship, payment of an application fee and the
filing of an application as hereinafter provided, a person may secure from the
City of Fremont a permit for outdoor storage of an inoperable vehicle or
inoperable special mobile equipment, as follows:
   (1)   Application for permit. An application for a permit for outdoor
storage of an inoperable vehicle or inoperable special mobile equipment shall
be made to the City of Fremont Zoning Administrator at any time prior to the
expiration of the grace period as provided for in Section 5-29(1), by paying an
application fee and filing an application on a form provided by the City and
supplying the following information thereon:
      (a)   The address or legal description of the premises where the vehicle
or equipment is stored or is to be stored;
      (b)   The name and address of the owner or occupant of said premises;
      (c)   The name and address of the owner of the vehicle or equipment, if
different than the owner or occupant of the premises;
      (d)   A description of the vehicle or equipment for which a permit is
sought, including make, model, year of manufacture, vehicle identification
number or last issued registration (license) number, and condition of the
vehicle or equipment;
      (e)   The period of time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, for which the
permit is being requested in order to restore the vehicle or equipment to
operating condition;
      (f)   A statement of the hardship necessitating the application; and
      (g)   The signature of the applicant.
   (2)   Issuance and Posting of Permit. The City of Fremont Zoning
Administrator may issue a permit for outdoor storage of an inoperable vehicle
or inoperable special mobile equipment upon the finding of unusual hardship.
Such permits shall be valid for the requested period, but not to exceed thirty
(30) days from the date of the filing of the application. A copy of the permit
shall be posted inside the vehicle or equipment for which it was issued by
affixing it to the windshield or, if there is no area of the windshield on
which it could be affixed, then to any other window of the inoperable vehicle
or to the exterior of a special mobile equipment, so as to be readily visible
during daylight hours. No permit shall be transferable to any other person or
vehicle.
   (3)   Conditions of Permit. Every permit for outside storage of an
inoperable motor vehicle or special mobile equipment on private premises shall
be subject to the following conditions:
      (a)   No safety hazard shall be created or maintained thereby;
      (b)   All broken glass or partially detached parts shall be either
removed or disposed of as rubbish or stored within a fully enclosed structure
or otherwise secured to the vehicle in a manner to prevent hazard;
      (c)   Trunk or storage compartments shall be kept locked or otherwise
secured to prevent possible entrapment of a child;
      (d)   Wheels or tires shall not be removed from the vehicle except for
repair of same;
      (e)   If required by the Michigan Vehicle Code to be registered, a
license plate for the current year shall be kept on the vehicle;
      (f)   All parts or components removed from the vehicle shall be stored
within a fully enclosed structure or building;
      (g)   No waste fluids such as oil, gas, anti-freeze, hydraulic fluid, or
other fluids shall be allowed to flow upon the ground or pavement;
      (h)   All information furnished by the applicant on the application shall
be true. Supplying false information on the application will be a violation of
this Article;
      (i)   No more than one permit for outdoor storage of an inoperable
vehicle or inoperable vehicle or inoperable special mobile equipment shall be
issued for a given private premise at any given time.
      (j)   Upon the expiration of the permit or extension, there shall be no
further grace periods or extensions; and in the event the permitted vehicle
continues to be inoperable and remains stored outdoors anywhere within the City
of Fremont, it shall be deemed a violation of this Article.
   (4)   Extension of Permit. A permit may be extended one time by filing at
the City of Fremont Zoning Administrator, prior to the expiration date of the
permits being extended, a written statement by the original applicant stating
that the repair or restoration of the vehicle or equipment has been commenced,
but has not been completed, stating the reason or reasons therefor, and further
stating the expected completion date, which shall not exceed thirty (30) days
after the termination date of the permit being extended. Along with the
statement, the applicant for an extension shall pay an application fee for the
requested extension period.
   (5)   Revocation; Notice; Order to Cease Storing. The City of Fremont Zoning
Administrator may revoke any permit issued under this Article when any
condition of the permit is violated.
      (a)   Notice of such revocation together with a notice to cease outdoor
storing of the vehicle or equipment that is the subject of the permit shall be
delivered either in person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the permittee at the address stated on the application; and, if different than
the permittee, a copy of the notice shall be similarly delivered to the owner
of the premises.
      (b)   The permittee and/or the owner of the premises shall thereafter
remove the vehicle or equipment within seven (7) days after receiving said
notice, or shall store the vehicle or equipment entirely within an enclosed,
roofed building.
      (c)   Failure to so remove or store such vehicle or equipment within
seven (7) days shall constitute a violation of this Article.
   (6)   Fees. The fees for both an original permit and for an extension permit
shall be established from time to time by Resolution of the City of Fremont
City Council. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-27 PERMITS: DENIAL OR REVOCATION
   Any person whose permit is revoked, or any person whose application for a
permit is denied, shall have the right to a hearing before the City Council of
the City of Fremont, provided a written request therefor is filed with the City
of Fremont Clerk within ten (10) days following the date of receipt of the
notice of revocation or within ten (10) days following the denial of the
application for permit.
   (a)   The hearing shall take place within thirty (30) days after the request
shall have been filed with the City Clerk, and may take place at a regular
meeting of the City Council or at a special meeting thereof called for that
specific purpose.
   (b)   A notice of time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by first
class mail to the I person requesting the hearing as soon as practicable, but
in no event, not less than ten (10) days I prior to the date of the hearing.
   (c)   The person requesting the hearing may be represented by an attorney
and shall be permitted to have witnesses appear on applicant's behalf. A
recording of the proceedings at the hearing shall be done under the direction
of the City Clerk.
   (d)   The City Clerk is authorized, by a majority vote of those present, to
confirm the permit denial or revocation, or to reverse the same and order the
City of Fremont Zoning Administrator to issue the appropriate permit. (Ord. O-
02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-28 NUISANCE PER SE
   Permitting a violation of the Article on private premises is hereby declared
to constitute a nuisance per se. Upon application to any court of competent
jurisdiction, the Court may order the nuisance abated and/or the violation
restrained and enjoined. The enforcement of the Article by abatement of any
nuisance by the enforcing officer or by application to any court of competent
jurisdiction for abatement by judicial decree or writ shall not preclude
enforcement of the Article by the issuance of a municipal civil infraction and
the imposition of fines and costs. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-29 FAILURE TO REMOVE OR ELIMINATE THE CONDITION - ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE
   (1)   If any property within the City is discovered as being used in
violation of the above Sections of this Article, the owner and/or occupant
shall be notified of such violation. The owner and/or occupant shall have
fourteen (14) days within receiving the notice, or within ten (10) days after
the decision of the City Council is rendered in case of an appeal, to remove or
eliminate the blighting condition. If the owner and/or occupant fail to comply
with the Article with fourteen (14) days of the issuance a civil infraction
violation citation, and in addition to the penalty provided by Sec. 5-32, the
City of Fremont may take action to remove or cause to be removed any item in
violation with this Article.
   (2)   Upon removal of any property in violation of this Article, the City of
Fremont must file a statement of costs incurred in such removal, plus an
administrative fee of twenty percent (20%) of the cost of removal or
elimination, by affidavit with the Clerk. Upon receipt of said affidavit of
costs, the Clerk, or his designee, shall place the same on file and serve a
copy thereof upon the owner, occupant or tenant of the property or, if
unoccupied, upon the owner as appears on the records of the Register of Deeds.
Said notice shall be served by delivering a copy of the same personally upon
the owner, occupant or tenant of the property or if the land is unoccupied, by
certified mail. The notices shall state that if payment in full of the costs
contained therein is not made within thirty (30) days of the date of the
notice, which notice shall be dated as of the date of personal service or the
date of mailing, the Clerk shall certify the costs as delinquent and submit
said costs to the Treasurer, setting forth the name of the owners of the
property, if known, and description of the property from which the property was
removed. The Treasurer shall place the costs upon the assessment roll charged
to the property described and the costs shall be collected in the same manner
as provided by the statutes for the collection of the City taxes. (Ord. O-02-
01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-30 APPEAL
   The owner and/or occupant may appeal to the City Council for a public
hearing, which shall be held at a regular or specially called City Council
meeting provided he files a request in writing with the City Clerk within
fourteen (14) days of receipt of the notice above specified. Following the
hearing, the decision of the City Council as to the violation shall be final.
(Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-31 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT
   The City Manager may direct abatement of any blight condition within twenty-
four (24) hours of giving notice that such condition be removed or eliminated
if the condition presents a clear and present danger to the public health,
safety or general welfare of City residents requiring immediate abatement
action. If such an action is taken, the costs of such action shall be
calculated in the same manner as in Sec. 5-28 to 5-29. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-32 CIVIL INFRACTIONS PENALTIES
   Any person violating any provisions of this Article shall be responsible for
a civil infraction. The penalty for said offense shall be established from time
to time by Resolution of the City of Fremont City Council as determined
necessary by City of Fremont. Repeat offenses shall be defined as a violation
of said Article, which has been ticketed for within the past thirty (30) days.
It shall be the duty of the City Manager of the City of Fremont, or authorized
representative, to enforce the provisions of this Article. If, after
investigation, the City Manager, or authorized representative, determines that
a violation of the Article exists, he shall be authorized to issue a municipal
civil infraction citation to any person, firm or corporation that is
responsible for violation of the provisions of this Article. Service of said
civil infraction citation or civil infraction notice shall be made in
accordance with the General Civil Infraction Ordinance adopted by the City of
Fremont. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Secs. 5-33 & 5-34 Reserved for future use.
Sec. 5-35 SEVERABILITY
   The provisions of this Chapter are hereby declared to be severable and if
any clause, sentence, word, section or provision is hereafter declared void or
unenforceable for any reason by any court of competent jurisdiction, it shall
not affect the remainder of such Chapter which shall continue in full force and
effect. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-36 REPEAL
   All chapters, articles or parts of articles or other ordinances in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed; provided that this Chapter shall not be construed
to repeal expressly or by implication any provision of the City Building Code
or Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Sec. 5-37 EFFECTIVE DATE
   This Chapter shall take effect ten (10) days after publication as required
by law, said effective date being April 7, 2002. (Ord. O-02-01, 3-18-02)
Secs. 5-38 & 5-39 Reserved for future use.
CHAPTER 6.
CEMETERIES.
For state law as to cemeteries generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 128.1 et seq.
As to city cemeteries, see M.C.L.A. §§ 128.61, 128.62.
   Article I. In General
§ 6-1.   Public burying grounds designated; establishment within the city
generally.
§ 6-2.   Interments generally
§§ 6-3, 6-4.   Repealed
§ 6-5.   Superintendent- -Appointment; duties generally
§ 6-6.   Same- -Records
§ 6-7.   Lots- -Descent of ownership of burial rights
§ 6-8.   Same- - Duplicate deeds
§ 6-9.   Same- -Charges, prices, etc.
§ 6-10.   Construction of mausoleums; performance bonds and perpetual care
agreements.
§ 6-10.1.   Conduct in cemeteries.
   Article II. Perpetual Care
§ 6-11.   Issue and recordation of deeds.
§ 6-12.   Charges; use of interest of fund.
§ 6-13.   Funds- -Deposits generally; treasurer's bond; repayment if principal.
§ 6-14.   Same- -Reports.
§ 6-15.   Same- -Investments generally.
§ 6-16.   Same- -Use of interest received on investments.
Article I. In General
Sec. 6-1. Public burying grounds designated; establishment within city
generally.
   All cemeteries now owned or which may hereafter be acquired by the city,
wherever located, and all cemeteries now within the city or which in the future
may be established within the city, whether owned by the city or not, are
hereby declared to be public burying grounds. No person shall establish or
locate a cemetery within the city unless the necessity or desirability for the
establishment if such a cemetery has been affirmatively determined by the city
council and unless the city council has approves the location of such proposed
cemetery. (2-8-65, § 1)
Sec. 6-2. Interments generally.
   No interments of any deceased person shall be made in any place other then a
public burying ground; nor shall the interment if anything other than human
bodies be permitted therein.
(2-8-54, § 2)
Secs. 6-3, 6-4 Repealed by an ordinance adopted 6-16-80
Sec. 6-5. Superintendent- -Appointment; duties generally.
   The Superintendent of cemeteries shall be appointed by the city manager and
shall have charge if the city cemeteries. He shall enforce the rules and
regulations that may from time to time be adopted by the city council; he shall
maintain order in the cemeteries and make complaints for every violation of
this Code or other city ordinance; he shall supervise all workmen, visitors and
drivers and shall qualify and act as a special police officer in the city owned
cemeteries.
(2-8-65, § 5.)
Sec. 6-6. Same- -Records.
   The Superintendent of cemeteries shall keep a register and record of all
interments made in such cemeteries. Such records shall disclose the name if the
deceased, the lot and block number in which the body is buried and the location
of the body on the lot. Such record shall be part of the public records of the
city. (2-8-65, § 6)
Sec. 6-7. Lots- -Descendent of ownership of burial rights.
   Ownership of burial rights shall descend as directed by will or other
suitable document signed and witnessed by the owner; in the event there is no
such disposition, then such rights shall descend as real estate passes under
the law of descent and distribution of the state.
(2-8-65, § 7.)
Sec. 6-8. Same- - Duplicate deeds.
   In case any original deed is lost or destroyed, and person having an
interest therein as appears on the index record may file with the city clerk an
affidavit showing such loss or destruction, giving the description of the lot
and showing his interest therein and how such interest was acquired. If the
city manager is satisfied with the facts stated therein and that such and
interest was acquired in accordance with the city Charter and with this
chapter, he may direct the city clerk to issue a duplicate of the original deed
and all transfers thereof appearing in the index record to such a person. When
so ordered, the city clerk shall issue a duplicate deed and endorse thereon
"duplicate deed issued by the order of the city manager of Fremont," giving the
date and sign such duplicate and attach thereto or endorse thereon a copy of
the record of all transfers appearing on the index record and attach thereto a
certificate substantially in the following form:
STATE OF MICHIGAN
COUNTY OF NEWAYGO
CITY OF FREMONT
   I, _______________________ City clerk of the City of Fremont, do hereby
certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the original deed
issued by the City of Fremont for Lot _____, Block ______, Maple grove
Cemetery, in the City of Fremont and transfers thereof appear on record in this
office.
Witness my hand and seal on the City this _____ day of __________, _______.
(Countersigned) __________________ (Sealed) _______________________
City Manager City Clerk
(2-8-65, § 8.)
Sec. 6-9. Same- -Charges, prices, etc.
   The prices charged for graves and lots in the various sections of the city
cemeteries, the amount of each sale to be set aside for perpetual care and the
charges for the various service and special services provided by the cemetery
management shall be specifies in such rules and regulations as the city council
may from time to time adopt. (2-8-65, § 9.)
Sec. 6-10. Construction of mausoleums; performance bonds and perpetual care
agreements.
   No mausoleums shall be constructed in the City cemeteries without the
express written permission of the city council and then only when plans and
specifications meeting the requirements of the city council have been filed in
the city offices. Performance bonds and perpetual care agreements shall meet
the requirements of the city commission. (2-8-65, § 16.)
Sec. 6-10.1. Conduct in Cemeteries.
   No person shall:
   (a)   Enter a cemetery except through an established gate.
   (b)   Deposit rubbish or debris on cemetery grounds, except in receptacles
provided.
   (c)   Pick or mutilate any flowers, either wild or domestic or disturb any
tree, shrub, or plant material.
   (d)   Mutilate, disturb, move or write upon any monument, fence or structure
within the cemetery.
   (e)   Bring alcoholic beverages within the cemetery.
   (f)   Disturb, sleep or protractedly lounge on the benches, grass, mounds or
other areas or engage in loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting, or
indecent language or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to
the breach of public peace.
   (g)   Permit any dog, horse or other domestic animal to enter or remain in
the cemetery unless such animal is contained within a vehicle.
   (h)   Use any form of advertising on cemetery premises.
   (i)   Purchase any ground lots or lots within the cemetery for the purposes
of speculation thereon.
   (j)   Discharge a firearm in or adjacent to any cemetery. This prohibition
shall not apply to authorized volleys at burial or Memorial Day services.
   (k)   Enter upon the cemetery premises between one-half hour after sunset
and dawn.
   Violation of the provisions in this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(10-3-77)
Article II. Perpetual Care.
For state law as to authority of city to provide perpetual care,
see M.C.L.A. § 128.1.
Sec. 6-11. Issue and recordation of deeds.
   To each person purchasing graves and lots in the city cemeteries and paying
the sums specified by this article, the city clerk shall issue a deed signed by
himself and countersigned by the mayor and to which the city seal is to be
affixed. Such deed shall state the total cost of the graves or lots purchased
with perpetual care included, the name and address of the purchaser, a
description of the grave, lot or parcel of land being purchased and a statement
that the cost of the perpetual care of such property has been paid. Such deed
shall be recorded in the city offices by the city clerk. (2-8-65, § 12.)
Sec. 6-12. Charges; use of interest of fund.
   Every person purchasing lots or graves in any of the city cemeteries shall
pay to the city treasurer in trust for the perpetual care of the cemeteries the
sums of money specified in the rules and regulations from time to time adopted
by the city council. The interest earned thereon shall be expended for the
perpetual care, maintenance and improvement to such cemeteries by or under the
direction of the city council. (2-8-65, § 10.)
Sec. 6-13. Funds- -Deposits generally; treasurers bond; repayment of principal.
   The sums of money paid as provided for in this article shall be immediately
deposited directly in such bank, banks or trust companies as the city council
shall direct, which money shall be kept on special deposit in a fund to be
known as the "Cemetery Perpetual Care fund of the City of Fremont." Such funds
and the interest thereon shall be kept apart from all other money belonging to
the cemetery or cemetery funds and all other funds of the city and shall only
be withdrawn and invested as directed by this article.
   The treasurer's official bond shall cover all monies so invested for the
purposes aforesaid.
   In no event shall the city be liable to repay the principal paid for
perpetual care to any person having purchased such care. (2-8-65, § 11.)
Sec. 6-14. Same- -Reports.
   The city clerk shall report to the city council at the close of each fiscal
year or at any other time as may be required the condition of such funds, in
what securities such funds are invested, the amount of the income derived from
such investments and the amount transferred. (2-8-65, § 15.)
Sec. 6-15. Same- -Investments generally.
   No part of a deposit for perpetual care, except the interest which shall
accrue in such monies, shall be drawn from such depositories, except for an
investment in such securities as may be made by life insurance companies in the
state and then subject to all of the terms, condition, limitations and
restrictions imposed by state law relative to such insurance companies;
provided, that the investment in notes, bonds or obligations of any county,
city, village, or district in the state shall not be subjected to such
restrictions or limitations and that notes, bonds, or obligation of the City of
Fremont may be purchased for such investments before or after such notes,
bonds, or obligations are offered to the public and with or without the
advertising for bids thereon. Where such investments are in the form of bonds,
the later shall be registered in the name of the Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund
of the City of Fremont and if no provisions is name doe the legal registration
of such bonds, the city clerk or treasurer shall place the following
endorsement upon the back of all bonds so purchased for said Cemetery Perpetual
Care fund of the City of Fremont; "Not transferable without the written consent
of the mayor and city clerk endorsed hereon."
   No monies so deposited shall be drawn from any bank or trust company for the
purpose of investment or reinvestment; except when authorized by a resolution
of the city council; provided, that the city treasurer may withdraw such funds
and deposit them in some other fund of the city on a loan basis upon resolution
of the city council; and provided, that such resolution shall provide for
repayment of such deposit within a specified time plus interest at a rate of
not less than four percent per annum. (2-8-65, § 13.)
Sec. 6-16. Same- -Use of interest received on investments.
   Each year all interest received from the investment of the funds held for
perpetual care shall be transferred to the cemetery account of the general fund
and budgeted for use in the care, maintenance and improvement of the city
cemeteries. (2-8-65, § 14.)
 CHAPTER 7.
Civil Infractions, Citations and Penalties
Article I. Definitions
§ 7-1.   Definitions of Terms as used in This Chapter
Article II. Procedures and Proceedings
§ 7-2.   Commencement of Municipal Civil Infraction Actions
§ 7-3.   Issuance and Service of Municipal Civil Infraction Citations
§ 7-4.   Contents of Municipal Civil Infraction Citations
§ 7-5.   Admissions or denial of responsibility
§ 7-6.   Formal Hearing
§ 7-7.   Informal Hearings
§ 7-8.   Failure to appear
§ 7-9.   Admissions or denial of responsibility; Arrest Warrants
Article III. Penalties
§ 7-10.   Civil Penalties
Article I. Definitions
Sec. 7-1. Definitions of Terms as used in This Chapter
   1)   “Authorized City official” means a police officer, the City Manager,
those persons delegated by the City Manager or other personnel of the City
authorized by these codified ordinances or any ordinance to issue municipal
civil infraction citations or municipal ordinance violation notices.
   2)   "City" means the City of Fremont located in Newaygo County, Michigan.
   3)   “Municipal civil infraction action” means a civil action in which the
defendant is alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   4)   “Municipal civil infraction citation” or “citation” means a written
complaint or notice prepared by an authorized City official, directing a person
to appear in court regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil
infraction violation by the person cited. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Article II. Procedures and Proceedings
Sec. 7-2. Commencement of Municipal Civil Infraction Actions
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized City official of a municipal civil infraction citation directing the
alleged violator to appear in court. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Sec. 7-3. Issuance and Service of Municipal Civil Infraction Citations
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized City officials as follows:
   1)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   2)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the Newaygo
County District Court.
   3)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the State Court Administrator. The original citation shall be filed
with the district court. The first copy of the citation shall be retained by
the City. The second copy must be issued to the alleged violator if the
violation is a misdemeanor. The third copy must be issued to the alleged
violator if the violation is a municipal civil infraction.
   4)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction, signed by an authorized
City official shall be treated as if it were made under oath if the violation
alleged in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the
complaint and if the citation contains the following statement immediately
above the date and signature of the official “I declare under the penalties of
perjury that the statements above are true to the best of my information,
knowledge and belief.”
   5)   An authorized City official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   6)   An authorized City official may issue a citation to a person if:
      a)   Based upon the investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction;
      b)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for such an
infraction and if the prosecuting attorney or City attorney approved in writing
the issuance of the citation.
   7)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
City official as follows:
      a)   Except as provided by paragraph "7(b)" below, an authorized City
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
      b)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the
copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In
addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner
of the land, building or structure at the owner’s last known address as it
appears on the tax rolls of the City. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Sec 7-4. Contents of Municipal Civil Infraction Citations
   1)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   2)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do one of the following:
      a)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance.
      b)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail, by the time specified for appearance, or in person or by
representation.
      c)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         i.   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless the City requests a formal hearing before a judge.
         ii.   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   3)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      a)   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time
specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance.
      b)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by
representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is specified on
the citation.
      c)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless the alleged
violator or the City requests a formal hearing.
      d)   That at an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney.
      e)   That at a formal hearing the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   4)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldfaced type that the failure
of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or
at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will
result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on the
municipal civil infraction. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Sec. 7-5. Admissions or denial of responsibility
   If an authorized local official issues a citation under section 7-3 of this
Chapter, the court may accept an admission with explanation or an admission or
denial of responsibility upon the citation without the necessity of a sworn
complaint. If the defendant denies responsibility for the municipal civil
infraction, further proceedings shall not be held until a sworn complaint is
filed with the court. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Sec. 7-6. Formal Hearing
   1)   A formal hearing shall be conducted only by a judge of the district
court or a municipal court and only at the request of the defendant or the
plaintiff. Such request must be made at least ten (10) days before the hearing
date.
   2)   In a formal hearing, the defendant may be represented by an attorney,
but is not entitled to counsel appointed at public expense.
   3)   The requesting party shall give notice of a formal hearing at least ten
(10) days before the hearing date. The notification of the request may be made
in person, by representation, by mail, or by telephone.
   4)   Notice of a formal hearing must also be given to the City attorney who
represents the City. That attorney shall appear in court for a formal hearing
and is responsible for the issuance of a subpoena to each witness for the
plaintiff. The defendant may also subpoena witnesses. Witness fees need not be
paid in advance to a witness.
   5)   There shall not be a jury trial in a formal hearing.
   6)   If the judge determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the
defendant is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, the judge shall
enter an order against the defendant as provided in Article III, Section 7-10.
Otherwise, a judgment shall be entered for the defendant but the defendant is
not entitled to costs of the action. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Sec. 7-7. Informal Hearings
   1)   An informal hearing shall be conducted by a district court magistrate,
if authorized, or by a judge of district court. The judge or district court
magistrate shall conduct the informal hearing in an informal manner so as to do
substantial justice according to the rules of substantive law, but is not bound
by the statutory provisions or rules of practice, procedure, pleading, or
evidence, except provisions relating to privileged communications.
   2)   There shall not be a jury trial in an informal hearing.
   3)   In an informal hearing, the defendant shall not be represented by an
attorney and the plaintiff shall not be represented by the City attorney.
   4)   Notice of a scheduled informal hearing shall be given to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff and defendant may subpoena witnesses. Witness fees need not be
paid in advance to a witness.
   5)   If the judge or district court magistrate determines by a preponderance
of the evidence that the defendant is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, the judge or magistrate shall enter an order against the defendant
as provided in Article III Section 7-10. Otherwise, a judgment shall be entered
for the defendant, but the defendant is not entitled to costs of the action.
   6)   The plaintiff and defendant are entitled to appeal an adverse judgment
entered at an informal hearing. An appeal shall be made in accordance with the
applicable Michigan Civil Infraction Court Rules and Statutes concerning Civil
Infraction Appeals. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Sec. 7-8. Failure to appear
   1)   If the defendant fails to appear as directed by the citation or other
notice at a scheduled appearance under Section 7-4 (3)(a), at a scheduled
formal hearing, or at a scheduled informal hearing, the court shall enter a
default judgment against the defendant.
   2)   A defendant who fails to answer a citation or appear in court for a
municipal civil infraction is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Sec. 7-9. Admissions or denial of responsibility; Arrest Warrants
   1)   If the defendant denies responsibility for the municipal infraction, a
sworn complaint must be filed with the court in order to proceed.
   2)   A warrant for arrest for failure to appear on the municipal civil
infraction citation under Section 7-8 (2) shall not be issued until a sworn
complaint relative to the municipal civil infraction is filed with the court.
(Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
Article III. Penalties
Sec. 7-10. Civil Penalties
   1)   If a defendant is determined to be responsible or responsible "with
explanation" for a municipal civil infraction, the judge or district court
magistrate may consider the defendant's explanation by way of mitigating any
sanction that the court may order or may order the defendant to pay a civil
fine. In the order of judgment, the judge or district court magistrate may
grant a defendant permission to pay a civil fine, costs, damages and expenses
within a specified period of time or in specified installments. Otherwise, the
civil fine, costs, damages and expenses are due immediately.
   2)   If a defendant is ordered to pay a civil fine under subsection (1), the
judge or district court magistrate shall summarily tax and determine the costs
of the action, which are not limited to the costs taxable in ordinary civil
actions and may include all expenses, direct and indirect, to which the City
has been put in connection with the municipal civil infraction, up to the entry
of judgment. Costs of not less than $90 or more than $500 shall be ordered.
Except as otherwise provided by law, costs shall be payable to the general fund
of the City.
   3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues, unless otherwise
provided. (Ord. O-02-02, 3-18-02)
CHAPTER 7.1.
COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION
   Article I. In General
§ 7.1-1.   Short Title.
§ 7.1-2.   Definitions.
§ 7.1-3.   Limitations of Charter to apply.
§ 7.1-4.   CATV committee; responsibilities.
§ 7.1-5.   License-Required
§ 7.1-6.   Same-Application; fee.
§ 7.1-7.   Same-Renewal.
§ 7.1-8.   Same-Revocation.
§ 7.1-9.   Same-Transferability.
§ 7.1-10.   Compliance with applicable laws and regulations; restrictions on
use of streets.
§ 7.1-11.   Severability.
§ 7.1-12.   Arbitration.
§ 7.1-13.   Availability of facilities.
§ 7.1-14.   Indemnification.
§ 7.1-15.   Insurance Requirements.
§ 7.1-16.   Authority of licensee to promulgate rules and regulations.
§ 7.1-17.   Rates.
§ 7.1-18.   Preferential or discriminatory practices prohibited.
§ 7.1-19.   Records and reports to be kept.
§ 7.1-20.   Services not to be performed by licensee.
§ 7.1-21.   Procedure for resolution of complaints.
§ 7.1-22.   Emergency use of facilities.
§ 7.1-23.   Operating Standards.
§ 7.1-24.   Weather service and local programming.
§ 7.1-25.   Incorporation of new techniques, capabilities, etc, into system.
§ 7.1-26.   Protection of Privacy.
§ 7.1-27.   Unlawful acts.
§§ 7.1-27-6.1-50. Reserved
   Article II. Regulations and Procedures for Basic Cable Rate Regulation
§ 7.1-51.   Definitions.
§ 7.1-52.   Purpose; interpretation.
§ 7.1-53.   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
§ 7.1-54.   Filing; additional information; burden of proof.
§ 7.1-55.   Proprietary information.
§ 7.1-56.   Public notice; initial review of rates.
§ 7.1-57.   Tolling order.
§ 7.1-58.   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following
tolling of thirty-day deadline.
§ 7.1-59.   Staff or consultant report; written response.
§ 7.1-60.   Rate decision and orders.
§ 7.1-61.   Refunds; notice.
§ 7.1-62.   Written decisions, public notice.
§ 7.1-63.   Rules and regulations.
§ 7.1-64.   Failure to give notice.
§ 7.1-65.   Additional hearings.
§ 7.1-66.   Additional powers.
§ 7.1-67.   Failure to comply; remedies.
§ 7.1-68.   Severability.
§ 7.1-69.   Conflicting provisions.
   ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 7.1-1. Short Title.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CATV Ordinance. (6-18-
79, § 1.)
Sec. 7.1-2. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivatives shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this
section:
   Cable television system; CATV system; system. A system within the city of
antennas, cables, wires, lines, towers, waveguides, or any other conductors,
converters, equipment, or facilities by which the signals of one or more
television or radio stations are received directly or indirectly over the air
and are amplified or otherwise modified and distributed primarily by wire or
cable to subscribers.
   CATV committee, committee. The city CATV committee appointed by the city
council in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   City clerk, clerk. The clerical officer of the city council, chief election
officer and the custodian of the city seal.
   City Manager. The chief administration officer of the city.
   Federal Communications Commission or FCC. The present federal agency of that
name as constituted by the Communications Act of 1934, or any successor agency
by the United States Congress.
   Licensee. A person to whom a license has been issued pursuant to provisions
of this chapter.
(6-18-79, § 3.)
Sec. 7.1-3. Limitations of Charter to apply.
   Any license granted under this chapter is expressly subject to provisions
and limitations thereon set forth in chapter 14 of the city Charter. (6-18-79,
§ 4.)
Sec. 7.1-4. CATV committee; responsibility.
   (a)   The city council shall appoint a city CATV committee of five (5)
members who will hold office for three (3) years; that the initial term of two
(2) appointees shall be for two (2) years, and the initial term of one
appointee shall be for one year. Terms of office shall begin on June 18, 1979.
   (b)   The city committee shall be responsible to the city council for the
following:
   (1)   Receive and request reports as provided for in section 7.1-19.
   (2)   Oversee the licensee's compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
and advise the city council of any noncompliance as provided for in section
7.1-8.
   (3)   Receive any unresolved complaints from the city clerk and act thereon
as provided for in section 7.1-21.
   (4)   The appointment of a director of public access programming whose term
of office shall be two (2) years and who shall be responsible for all local
origination activities. The director shall repot to the CATV committee. The
licensee shall actively provide advice and guidance on local origination
facilities and programming.
   (5)   Make periodic inspection of the licensee's equipment and facilities to
determine their adequacy and compliance with this chapter.
   (6)   Perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be required by
the city council.
(6-18-79, § 19.)
Sec. 7.1-5. License-Required.
   No person shall own or operate a community antenna television system in the
city except by license issued to such person pursuant to this chapter. The
clerk will issue a CATV license only upon receipt of an application which
complies with all other requirements of this chapter, and upon approval by the
city council of the licensee's legal, character, financial, technical, and
other qualifications, as well as the adequacy and feasibility of the licensee's
construction arrangements, after full public proceeding affording due process.
Such license shall authorize the operation of a community antenna television
system within the city, subject to the provisions of this chapter, for a period
of fifteen (15) years. The annual licensee fee shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00), payable each year on June 18.
(6-18-79, § 17.)
Sec. 7.1-6. Same-Application; fee.
   Any person desiring to install, erect, construct, operate and maintain a
community antenna television system within the city shall first make
application in writing, signed by the applicant or his duly authorized agent,
to the city clerk. Such application shall be accompanied by a general plan of
the system to the city, a financial statement or other evidence of the
financial capabilities of the applicant and other information as the city clerk
may require. Such application shall also be accompanied by a filing fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
(6-18-79, § 5.)
Sec. 7.1-7. Same-Renewal.
   (a)   A licensee hereunder may, at its option, make application for the
renewal of a license granted hereunder by filing with the clerk of the city
council a written application, signed by the applicant or its duly authorized
agent, for the renewal of such license for an additional term of fifteen (15)
years. Such request shall be filed not less then six (6) months prior to the
expiration of existing term. The applicant shall submit with such application a
financial statement or other evidence of he financial capability, together with
a filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00). If the applicant then has any
plan or plans for a significant change or revision to the general plan of the
system to continue to serve the city, such plan or plans shall be submitted
with the application. Such applicant for renewal shall be submitted to the city
council for approval as provided in section 7.1-5.
   (b)   License renewals, unless revoked for cause, shall remain in force and
effect for fifteen (15) years.
   (c)   All of the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be controlling
during the renewal period, except to the extent that such terms and provisions
are modified by the city, or unless this chapter is superseded by a new
ordinance. (6-18-79, § 18.)
Sec. 7.1-8. Same-Revocation.
   Any violation by licensee of any material provisions of this chapter or the
failure to properly perform any of the conditions or terms hereof, shall be
cause for the revocation of its license and all rights thereunder. The CATV
committee shall report such noncompliance in writing to the city council,
which, upon due notice to the licensee and after reasonable opportunity to
plane itself in compliance and to be heard on the charge of non compliance may
revoke such license.
(6-18-79, § 18.)
Sec. 7.1-9. Same-Transferability.
   No transfer or assignment of a license granted hereunder shall be effective
unless the prospective transferee or assignee files an application for an
approval of assignment or transfer with the clerk. The clerk shall issue a
certificate of approval of assignment or transfer of a license only if the
application therefor complies with all of the requirements of this chapter, and
upon approval by the city council of the transferee's or assignee's legal,
character, financial, technical, and other qualifications, as well as the
adequacy and feasibility of the transferee's or assignee's construction
arrangements, after a full public hearing affording due process. Permission to
transfer license will not be unreasonable withheld. Prior approval of the city
council shall be required where ownership or control of more then twenty-five
(25) percent of the right of control of the licensee is acquired by a party or
group of parties acting in concern, none of whom already owns or controls
twenty-five (25) percent or more of such right control, singularly or
collectively. This approval will not be unreasonably denied.
(6-18-79, § 23.)
Sec. 7.1-10. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations; restrictions on
use of streets.
   (a)   Any person duly licensed to operate a CATV system shall at all times
be subject to all lawful exercise of the police power of the city and to such
reasonable regulations as the city shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance
provide.
   (b)   The licensee shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of
the Federal Communications Commission which are now in effect or which may
hereinafter be approved by the FCC.
   (c)   Any licensee shall have the right, subject to the subsection (a) of
this section, so long as his license is in force and effect, to utilize the
streets of the city for the erecting of facilities for the transmission of
television signals as herein authorized from his antenna location or locations
to the premises of subscribers. The licensee may erect all necessary wires,
cables and appurtenances in such streets, provided, that any such distribution
systems shall comply with all applicable laws, regulations and ordinances and
all of the licensee's wires and cables suspended from poles in the streets
shall comply with the minimum clearances aboveground required for telephone
lines, cables, wires and conduits. The placement of any necessary poles shall
be subject to the approval of the city manager. The licensee may, at its
option, authorize the installation of such wires, cables, conduits, poles, and
appurtenances by another for the licensee's use and all such wires, cables,
conduits, poles, and appurtenances placed or installed by others for the use of
the licensee shall be subject to the same regulations as if the licensee
installed them.
   (d)   All transmissions and distributions lines and equipment erected by the
licensee or on his behalf within the city shall be so located as to create
minimal interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners who adjoin any of such streets, and existing poles for electric and
communication purposes shall be utilized wherever possible and practical.
   (e)   In case of any disturbance of a public facility, including but not
limited to a sewer, water line, pavement, sidewalk, driveway, or other
surfacing, the licensee shall, at his own cost and expense and in a manner
approved by the city manager, replace and restore the public facility
disturbed, in as good condition as before the work was commenced.
   (f)   The licensee shall have the right to locate its cable aboveground,
subject to the condition that such cables will be relocated below ground in all
areas where the cables, wires, and conduits of all other utility companies are
located below ground.
(6-18-79, § 6; Ord. No. O-93-01, § 19, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-11. Severability.
   If any section, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is held to be
unconstitutional, such unconstitutionality shall not effect the validity of the
chapter, and any portions in conflict are hereby repealed; provided, however,
that in the event that the Federal Communications Commission declares the
section invalid, then section or sections will be renegotiated by the city
council and the licensee.
(6-18-79, § 7).
Sec. 7.1-12. Arbitration.
   (a)   Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this chapter or
the breach thereof shall be promptly submitted to and settled by arbitration
conducted by the American Arbitration Association in the city, in accordance
with the then applicable commercial arbitration rules of such Association; the
results of such arbitration, including the award of any adjustments, remedy or
remedies contemplated by this chapter, and if applicable, shall be embodied in
any such adjustment or award which shall be final and binding on all partied,
and judgment upon the adjustment rendered may be entered in and enforced by any
court having jurisdiction thereof.
   (b)   The cost of arbitration shall be borne equally by the city and the
licensee.
(6-18-79, § 8).
Sec. 7.1-13. Availability of facilities.
   (a)   The licensee, with the purpose of supplying its facilities and service
to all residents of the city who may request such service, shall commence and
diligently pursue the construction of its cable television energized trunk
cable distribution facilities within one year following the granting of a
license to the licensee by the city. During each year thereafter the licensee
shall equitably and reasonably extend its energized truck cable system and make
service available to an additional twenty (20) percent of the total area
included within the area of its license, provided such area has population of
not less then fifty (50) homes per mile, and such homes are located in an area
which is contiguous to an area in which the licensee's system is then operating
and providing service. If the city shall expand its present territorial limits,
the licensee shall extend its facilities and services in the same basis herein
above provided.
   (b)   The licensee shall provide within the city a convenient place for the
payment of bills by subscribers and toll free telephone access to the
licensee's central office in Muskegon, Michigan.
   (c)   The city shall provide the licensee with a parcel of land adequate in
area and at a location satisfactory for the licensee's technical needs to
permit such licensee to construct a tower, earth station, and "head-end"
facility thereon. The city shall lease such parcel of land to the licensee for
a period of fifteen (15) years at a rental of one dollar ($1.00) per year. (6-
18-79, § 9.)
Sec. 7.1-14. Indemnification.
   The licensee shall fully indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the city, its
officers, agents and employees against any and all claims, suits, actions,
liabilities, judgements, and demands whatsoever resulting from the negligence
of the licensee in the construction, operation, or maintenance of its CATV
system in the city. The city shall notify the licensee within five (5) days
after the presentment of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made
against the city on account of any negligence as aforesaid on the part of the
licensee.
(6-18-79, § 10.)
Sec. 7.1-15. Insurance requirements.
   Each applicant shall, in its application, demonstrate by certificate of
insurance that it carries Workman's Compensation and is protected by the
comprehensive general liability insurance, including fleet, issued by an
insurance carrier authorized to do business in the state, against claims for
property damage in the minimum amounts of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for any one accident and for personal injuries including death in
the minimum amounts of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) to any one
person, and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for personal injuries
including death resulting from any one accident under construction, operations,
and maintenance. The policy is to eliminate the X-C-U exclusions.
(6-18-79, § 11.)
Sec. 7.1-16. Authority of licensee to promulgate rules and regulations.
   The licensee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms, and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be
reasonably necessary to enable the licensee to exercise its rights and perform
its obligation under this chapter and to assure an uninterrupted service to
each and all of its customers; provided, however, that such rules, regulations,
terms, and conditions shall not be in conflict with the provisions hereof, or
the rules of any state or federal regulatory agency, or the laws of the state.
(6-18-79, § 12.)
Sec. 7.1-17. Rates.
   (a)   The licensee shall levy no installation or monthly service charge for
public and private educational institutions, hospitals, police and fire
stations or the city hall; provided, that such institutions or places assume
the cost of all set connections.
   (b)   Reserved.
   (c)   Reserved.
   (d)   Reserved.
   (e)   The licensee shall inform subscribers at connection time that they may
equip their TV sets with a switchback device so that they can retain their
antenna and use it at any time. The one-time charge for this device shall be
eight dollars ($8.00).
(6-18-79, § 13; Ord. No. O-93-01, § 19, 9-7-93.)
Sec. 7.1-18. Preferential or discriminatory practices prohibited.
   The licensee shall not, as to rates, charges, service facilities, rules or
regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant preference or advantage to
any person, nor subject any person to any prejudice or disadvantage; and the
licensee shall be prohibited from providing to his customers in the city who
pay the licensee's basic rate as pursuant to this chapter, and lesser services
or programming than is currently being provided; provided, however, that
nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the establishment of free-
of-charge-service to public or private educational institutions, hospitals,
eleemosynary institutions and such public buildings as fire stations, police
stations, or the city hall; provided further, however, that nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to prohibit higher rates or charges for areas wherein
there is a population density of less then fifty (50) homes per mile as long as
any additional amount over the standard rates and charges is in proportion to
the lesser income from subscribers incurred due to lesser density or to higher
installation charges.
(6-18-79, § 14.)
Sec. 7.1-19. Records and reports to be kept.
   The CATV committee shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the
licensee's plans, contracts and engineering, accounting, financial,
statistical, customer and service records relating to the property and the
operation of the licensee in the city and to all other records required to be
kept hereunder. The following records and reports shall be filed with the CATV
committee and in the local office of the licensee:
   (a)   Licensee's rules and regulations. Copies of such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions as are adopted by the licensee for the conduct of its
business.
   (b)   Subscriber revenues. An annual summary report showing subscriber
revenues received by the licensee from its operation within the city during the
preceding year and such other information as the CATV committee shall request
with respect to properties and expenses related to the licensee's service
within the city.
(6-18-79, § 15.)
Sec. 7.1-20. Services not to be performed by licensee.
   The services performed pursuant to licenses issued hereunder shall not
include the performance of repairing, servicing or selling television sets or
television antennas nor shall the licensee recommend service by others except
as directly related to cable installation and/or connection.
(6-18-79, § 16.)
Sec. 7.1-21. Procedure for resolution of complaints.
   (a)   Subscribers complaints regarding interruption of service, quality of
service, equipment malfunctions, and similar matters shall be referred to
Fremont Cable TV by telephone or letter. The letter shall be addressed to the
licensee at its business office maintained for those purposes. Such complaints
shall be recorded and made a part of the licensee's permanent records. The
licensee will be afforded a forty-eight hour period from the date of issuance
of such complaint to perform a full investigation and resolve the complaint.
   (b)   Unresolved subscriber complains shall be forwarded to the city clerk,
who shall in turn periodically forward them to the CATV committee.
   (c)   If, after a forty-eight hour period, the licensee has failed to take
appropriate measures in respect to the complaint, the CATV committee shall have
discretion to hear the complaint and licensee, and thereafter proscribe
appropriate measures, and are necessary, to resolve such complaint. If such
committee is unable to resolve complaint, the matter shall be referred to the
city council. The failure to resolve any reasonable complaint shall be cause
for revocation of the license. (6-18-79, § 20.)
Sec. 7.1-22. Emergency use of facilities.
   In times of emergency, the city, state, or federal government shall have
total access to the licensee's facilities. The cable system shall include an
"emergency alert" capability which will permit a responsible public official to
override, by remote control, the audio of all channels simultaneously in case
of public emergencies such as tornadoes or fires. The CATV committee shall
decide the location of the activation device, and the responsible public
official.
(6-18-79, § 21.)
Sec. 7.1-23. Operation standards.
   (a)   The licensee shall install, maintain and operate its system in
accordance with the highest standards of the art and render efficient service
in accordance with such rules and regulations as promulgated by the Federal
Communications Commission and other appropriate agencies.
   (b)   There shall be no interruption of service to subscribers unless caused
by acts or events over which the licensee has no control. The licensee shall
provide a uniform strong signal, as free from distortion and interference as
the state of the art permits. Whenever it is necessary to shut down or
interrupt services for the purpose of making repairs, adjustments or
installation, the licensee shall do so at times as will cause the least amount
of inconvenience to its subscribers, and unless such interruption is unforeseen
and immediately necessary, it shall give reasonable notice thereof to its
subscribers.
   (c)   In the event the service of a subscriber is disrupted for a twenty-
four hour period for any reason which is the fault of the licensee, then the
monthly rate charged the subscriber shall be reduced and rebated to the
subscriber proportionally for each twenty-four hour period or part thereof
during which such disruption continues.
(6-18-79, § 22.)
Sec. 7.1-24. Weather service and local programming.
   (a)   The licensee shall provide a twenty-four hour weather service channel.
   (b)   The licensee shall also provide a local orientation channel. The
return line to run from the licensee's "head end facility" to a studio
location, within the city, designated by the director of public access
programming.
   (c)   The FM background audio for both channels shall be selected by the
CATV committee.
(6-18-79, § 24.)
Sec. 7.1-25. Incorporation of new techniques, capabilities, etc. into system.
   As new developments, techniques, capabilities, method or procedures become
available they shall be incorporated within the CATV system at the request of
the CATV committee. Upon receipt of such request, the licensee shall comply
within sixty (60) days or give the committee its reason, in writing, as to why
compliance is not practical. If the committee and licensee do not agree upon
the practicability of incorporating new developments or techniques into the
system, the matter shall be determined by arbitration pursuant section 7.1-12.
The licensee shall immediately make available to the licensee's subscribers
within the city any new channels which the FCC makes available to the immediate
area when practical.
(6-18-79, § 25.)
Sec. 7.1-26. Protection of privacy.
   (a)   A subscriber's line shall not be tapped or monitored without prior
written permission from the subscriber.
   (b)   When two-way cable transmission is offered, the activation of the
return signal shall be at the subscribers option.
   (c)   The city or licensee shall not, without prior written authorization
from each subscriber so affected, provide any data identifying subscriber's
name or address to any other party.
(6-18-79, § 27.)
Sec. 7.1-27. Unlawful acts.
     (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection whether
physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively or otherwise, with any part
of the licensee's cable television system for the purpose of enabling himself
or others to receive any television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs,
sounds, or any other information or intelligence transmitted over the
licensee's cable system without payment to the licensee.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of licensee,
to willfully tamper with, remove, or injure any cable, wires, or other
equipment used for the distribution of
television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs, sounds, or any other
information or intelligence transmitted over the licensee's cable system.
   (c)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(6-18-79, § 28.)
Secs. 7.1-28 – 7.1-50. Reserved.
   ARTICLE II. REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR BASIC CABLE RATE REGULATION.
Sec. 7.1-51. Definitions.
   For purposes of this article:
   Act shall mean the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically
as amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, Pub. L. 102-385), and as may be amended from time to time.
   Associated equipment shall mean all equipment and services subject to
regulation pursuant to 47 CFR § 76.923; and an "increase" in rates shall mean
an increase in rates or a decrease in programming or customer services.
   Basic cable service shall mean "basic service" as defined in the FCC Rules,
and any other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by
the city pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
   FCC shall mean the Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC Rules shall mean all rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time
pursuant to the Act.
   All other words and phrases used in this article shall have the meaning as
defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 1, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-52. Purpose; interpretation.
   The purpose of this article is to:
   (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and FCC Rules with respect
to the basic cable rate regulation; and
   (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the city. This article shall be implemented and
interpreted consistent with the Act and FCC Rules. (Ord. No. O-93-01, 2, 9-7-
93)
·Editors note- Ord. No. O-93-01, 1-19, adopted Sept. 7, 1993, has been included
herein at the discretion of the editor as Art. II, 7.1-51 – 7.1-69.
Sec. 7.1-53. Rate regulations promulgated by FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
association equipment, the City of Fremont shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Ord. No, O-93-01, § 3, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-54. Filing; additional information; burden of proof.
   (a)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rate complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file ten (10) copies id the schedule or
proposed increase with the city clerk. For purposes of this Ordinance, the
filing of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least
ten (10) copies have been received by the city clerk. The city council, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator's filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (b)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the city pursuant to section 7.1-54(a) above, a cable operator shall provide
all information requested by the city manager in connection with the city's
review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier and
associated equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The city manager
may establish deadlines for submission of the requested information and the
cable operator shall comply with such deadlines.
   (c)    A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 USC § 543, and 47 CFR §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 4, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-55. Proprietary information.
   (a)   If this article, any rules or regulation adopted by the city pursuant
to section 7.1-54(a) or any request for information pursuant to section 7.1-54
(b) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable operator
shall produce the information. However, at the time the allegedly proprietary
information is submitted, a cable operator may request that specific,
identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and with held
from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the information
should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those reasons. The
request for confidentiality will be granted if the city determines that the
preponderance if the evidence shows that non-disclosure is consistent with the
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C § 552. The city shall
place in a public file for inspection any decision that results in information
being withheld. If the cable operator requests confidentiality and the request
is denied, (1) where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the alleged proprietary information will
be returned to it; or (2) the cable operator may seek review within five
working days of the denial in any appropriate forum. Release of the information
will be stayed pending review.
   (b)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the city. The city shall weigh the policy considerations
favoring non-disclosure against the reasons cited for permission inspection in
light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly notify the
requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the information as to
the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or condition a request. The
requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the decision by
filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be stayed pending
resolution of any appeal.
   (c)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 CFR § 0.459.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 5, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-56. Public notice; initial review of rates.
   Upon the filing of ten (10) copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to section 7.1-54(a) above, the city clerk shall
publish a public notice in newspaper of general circulation in the city which
shall state that: (1) the filing has been received by the city clerk and
(except those parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for
public inspection and copying, and (2) interested parties are encouraged to
submit written comments on the filing to the city clerk not later than seven
(7) days after the public notice is published. The city clerk shall give notice
to the cable operator of date, time, and place of the meeting at which the city
council shall first consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
This notice shall be mailed by first-class mail at least three (3) days before
the meeting. In addition, if a written staff or consultant's report on the
schedule of rates or the proposed increase is prepared for consideration of the
city council, then the city clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first-
class mail to the cable operator at least three (3) days before the meeting at
which the city council shall first consider the schedule of rates or the
proposed increase.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 6, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-57. Tolling order.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or proposed
increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in effect
or the proposed increase in rated will become effective after thirty (30) days
from the date of filing under section 7.1-54(a) above, unless the city council
(or other properly authorized body or official) tolls the thirty (30) day
deadline pursuant to 47 CFR § 76.933 by issuing a brief written order, by
resolution or otherwise, within thirty (30) days of filing. The city council
may toll the thirty (30) day deadline for an additional ninety (90) days in
cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional one hundred
fifty (150) days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 7, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-58. Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following
tolling of thirty-day deadline.
   If a written order has been issued pursuant to section 7.157 and 47 CFR §
76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for the basic cable service
tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these rates, the cable
operator shall submit to the city any additional information required or
requested pursuant to section 7.1-54. In addition, the city council shall hold
a public hearing to consider the comments of interested parties within the
additional ninety-day or one-hundred-fifty-day period, as the case may be. The
city clerk shall publish notice of the hearing in a newspaper if general
circulation within the city which shall state: (1) the date, time, and place at
which the hearing shall be held, (2) interested parties may appear in person,
by agent, or by letter at such hearing to submit comments on or objection to
the existing rates or the proposed increase in rates, and (3) copies of the
schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates and related information
(except those parts which may be withheld as proprietary) are available for
inspection or copying from the office of the clerk. The public notice shall be
published not less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing. In addition, the
city clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy of public notice to the cable
operator not less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing.
(Ord. No, O-93-01, § 8, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-59. Staff or consultant report; written response.
   Following the public hearing, the city manager shall cause a report to be
prepared for the city council which shall (based in the filing of the cable
operator and its response, staff or consultant's review, and other appropriate
information) include a recommendation for the decision of the city council
pursuant to section 7.1-60. The city clerk shall mail a copy of the report to
the cable operator by first-class mail not less then twenty (20) days before
the city council acts under section 7.1-60. The cable operator may file a
written response to the report with the city clerk. If at least ten (10) copies
of the response are filed by the cable operator with the city clerk within ten
(10) days after the report is mailed to the cable operator, the city clerk
shall forward it to the city council.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 9, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-60. Rate decisions and orders.
   The city council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the city council issues an order allowing the existing
rated or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it shall also
direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47 CFR §
76.933. the order specified in this section shall be issued within ninety (90)
days of the tolling order under section 7.1-57 in all cases not involving a
cost-of-service showing. The order shall be issued within one hundred fifty
(150) days after the tolling order under section 7.1-57 in all cases involving
a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 10, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-61. Refunds; notice.
   The city council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47 CFR §
76.942. Before the city council orders any refund to subscribers, the city
clerk shall give at least seven (7) days written notice to the cable operator
by first-class mail of the date, time, and place at which the city council
shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity for the
cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by agent,
or by letter at such time for the purpose of submitting comments to the city
council.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 11, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-62. Written decision; public notice.
   Any order of the city council pursuant to section 7.1-60 or section 7.1-61
shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adaptation by the city council,
and shall be deemed released to the public upon adaptation. The clerk shall
publish a public notice of any such written order in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city which shall: (1) summarize the written decision,
and (2) state that copies of the text of the written decision are available for
inspection or copying from the office of the city clerk. In addition, the city
clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the written decision to the cable
operator by first-class mail.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 12, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-63. Rules and Regulations.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to section 7.1-54, the city
council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulation for basic
cable service rate regulation proceedings (including, without limitation, the
conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 13, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-64. Failure to give notice.
   The failure of the city clerk to give the notices or to mail the copies of
reports as required by this article shall not invalidate the decisions of the
city council.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 14, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-65. Additional hearings.
   In addition to the requirements of this article, the city council may hold
additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the city council, in
its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 15, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-66. Additional Powers.
   The city shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules, the
cable operator's franchise, and all other applicable laws. The powers exercised
pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules, and this article shall be in addition to
powers conferred by law or otherwise. The city may take any action not
prohibited by the Act and FCC Rules to protect the public interest in
connection with the basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 17, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-67. Failure to comply; remedies.
   The city may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator's franchise with the city) for failure to comply with the Act,
the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to this
article, and requirements of this article, or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to this
article, any requirements of this article, or any rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or
denial of renewal of a cable operator's franchise.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 17, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-68. Severability.
   The various parts, sections, and clauses of this article are hereby declared
to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section or clause is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of the article shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 18, 9-7-93)
Sec. 7.1-69. Conflicting provisions.
   In the event of any conflict between this article and the provisions of any
prior ordinances or any franchise, permit, consent agreement or other agreement
with a cable operator, then the provisions of this article shall control.
(Ord. No. O-93-01, § 19, 9-7-93)
CHAPTER 7.2.
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
   Article I. Downtown Development Authority
§ 7.2-1.   Title.
§ 7.2-2.   Definitions.
§ 7.2-3.   Determination of necessity.
§ 7.2-4.   Creation of authority.
§ 7.2-5.   Description of downtown district.
§ 7.2-6.   Board of directors.
§ 7.2-7.   Powers of the authority.
§ 7.2-8.   Fiscal year; adoption of budget.
§§ 7.2-9, 7.2-10. Reserved.
   Article II. Development Area No. 1 and Development Plan
§ 7.2-11.   Definitions.
§ 7.2-12.   Review considerations.
§ 7.2-13.   Public Purpose.
§ 7.2-14.   Best interest of the public.
§ 7.2-15.   Approval and adoption of 1989 Amendments to plan.
§ 7.2-16.   Boundaries of development area.
§ 7.2-17.   Confirmation and maintenance of base year assessment roll.
§ 7.2-18.   Preparation of annual base year assessment roll.
§ 7.2-19.   Establishment of project fund; approval of depository.
§ 7.2-20.   Payment of tax increments to authority.
§ 7.2-21.   Use of moneys in the project fund.
§ 7.2-22.   Annual report.
§ 7.2-23.   Refund of surplus tax increments.
§ 7.2-24.   Agreement(s) with taxing jurisdictions.
ARTICLE I. DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Sec. 7.2-1. Title.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Downtown Development
Authority Ordinance." (7-7-86)
Sec. 7.2-2. Definitions.
   The terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as given to them
in Act 197 or as hereinafter in this section provided unless the context
clearly indicates to the contrary. As used in this chapter:
   Act 197 means Act. No. 197 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1975, as now in
effect or hereafter amended.
   Authority means the downtown development authority of the city of Fremont
created by this chapter.
   Board or Board of Directors means the board of directors if the authority,
the governing body of the authority.
   Chief executive officer means the mayor of the city.
   City means the City of Fremont, Newaygo County, Michigan.
   City Council means the city council of the city.
   Downtown district means the downtown district designated by this chapter as
now existing or hereafter amended. (7-7-86)
Sec. 7.2-3. Determination of necessity.
   The city council of the city hereby determines that it is necessary for the
best interests of the city to halt property value deterioration and increase
property tax valuation where possible in the business district of the city, to
eliminate the causes of that deterioration and to promote economic growth by
establishing a downtown development authority pursuant to Act 197. (7-7-86)
Sec. 7.2-4. Creation of authority.
   There is hereby created pursuant to Act 197 a downtown development authority
for the city. The authority shall be a public body corporate and shall be known
and exercise its power under the title of "Downtown Development Authority of
the City of Fremont." The authority may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in
any court if this state and shall posses all of the powers necessary to carry
out the purposes of its incorporation as provided by this chapter and Act 197.
The enumeration of a power in this chapter or in this chapter or in Act 197
shall not be construed as a limitation upon the general powers if the
authority. (7-7-86)
Sec. 7.2-5. Description of downtown district.
   The downtown district in which the authority shall exercise its powers as
provided by Act 197 shall consist of the described territory in the city,
subject to such changes as may hereinafter be made pursuant to this chapter and
Act 197, as set forth in Exhibit A, as amended, attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference. (7-7-86; Ord. of 8-3-87)
Sec. 7.2-6. Board of directors.
   The authority shall be under the supervision and control of a board of
directors consisting of of the chief executive officer of the city and not less
then eight (8) members or more then twelve (12) as provided by Act 197. The
members shall be appointed by the chief executive officer subject to approval
by the city council and shall hold office for the terms provided in Act 179.
All members shall hold office until the member's successor is appointed. (7-7-
86)
Sec. 7.2-7. Powers of the authority.
   Except as specifically otherwise provided in this chapter the authority
shall have all powers provided by law subject to the limitations by law and
herein. (7-7-86)
Sec. 7.2-8. Fiscal year; adoption of budget.
   (a)   The fiscal year of the authority shall begin on July 1 of each year
and end on June 30 of the following year, or such fiscal year as hereafter may
be adopted by the city.
   (b)   The board shall annually prepare a budget and shall submit it to the
city council on the same date that the proposed budget for the city is required
by law to be submitted to the city council. The board shall not finally adopt a
budget for any fiscal year until the budget has been approved by the city
council. The board may, however, temporarily adopt a budget in connection with
the operation of any improvements which have been financed by revenue bonds
where required to do so by the ordinance authorizing the revenue bonds.
   (c)   The authority shall submit financial reports to the city council at
the same time and on the same basis as departments of the city are required to
submit reports. The authority shall be audited annually by the same independent
auditors auditing the city and copies of the audit shall be filed with the city
council. (7-7-86)
Secs. 7.2-9, 7.2-10. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. DEVELOPMENT AREA NO. 1 AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
*
   *Editor's note- At the discretion of the editor, an ordinance of March 20,
1989, §§ 1-14, has been treated as amending Art. II in its entirety and has
been set forth as §§ 7.2-11-7.2-24 herein. The citation in history notes to the
ordinance of Nov. 17, 1986, has been retained for the benefit of the user.
Sec. 7.2-11. Definitions.
   Where used in this article, the terms set forth below shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   Base year assessment roll means the base year assessment roll prepared by
the city assessor in accordance with the ordinance approving plan.
   Captured assessed value means the amount in any one year by which the
current assessed value as finally equalized of all taxable property in the
development area exceeds the initial assessed value.
   Developed area shall mean the area as described in Exhibit "A" attached
hereto (but not set forth herein).
   Development plan means the development plan prepared by the authority and
included in the plan dates November 13, 1986, as amended August 3, 1987, and
amended by the 1989 Amendments.
   Initial assessed value means the most recently assessed value as finally
equalized of all the taxable property within the boundaries of the development
area at the time if adoption of this article.
   1989 Amendments means the "amendment to Tax Increment Finance and
Development Plan " for the City of Fremont, as transmitted to the city council
by the authority for public hearing, and confirmed by the ordinance from which
this article derives copies of which are on file in the office of the city
clerk.
   Project fund means the "DDA 1989 Amendments Project Fund" established
pursuant to this article.
   Taxing Jurisdiction shall mean each unit of government levying an ad valorem
property tax on property in the development area.
   Downtown development authority or DDA means the downtown development
authority of the City of Fremont. (Ord. of 11-17-86, § 1, Ord. of 3-20-89, § 1)
Sec. 7.2-12. Review considerations.
   As required by the act, the council has in reviewing the 1989 Amendments
taken into account the following considerations:
   (a)   The plan and the 1989 Amendments thereto meet the requirements set
forth in section 17(2) of the act.
   (b)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and the
authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
   (c)   The development, including the improvements described in the 1989
Amendments, is reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes of the act.
   (d)   The land included within the development area to be acquired, if any,
is reasonable necessary to carry out the purposes of the plan and the purposes
of the act in an efficient and economically satisfactory manner.
   (e)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the master plan of
the city.
   (f)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities, are
or will be adequate to service the development area.
   (g)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections, and
utilities, to the extent required by the plan, including the 1989 Amendments,
are reasonable necessary for the projects described therein and for the city.
(Ord. of 3-20-89, § 2)
Sec. 7.2-13. Public purpose.
   The council hereby determines that the plan, including the 1989 Amendments,
constitutes a public purpose.
(Ord. of 3-20-89, § 3)
Sec. 7.2-14. Best interest of the public.
   The council hereby determines and redetermines that it is in the best
interests of the public to halt property value deterioration and increase
property tax valuation where possible in the business district, eliminate the
causes of that deterioration, and to promote economic growth to proceed with
the 1989 Amendments to the plan.
(Ord. of 3-20-89, § 4)
Sec. 7.2-15. Approval and adoption of 1989 Amendments to plan.
   The 1989 Amendments to the plan are hereby approved and adopted. The plan
shall terminate on December 31, 2001 or the date of final maturity of the last
series of bonds issued pursuant to the plan including the 1989 Amendments,
whichever is later, except as it may be extended by subsequent amendment of the
plan pursuant to the act. A copy of the plan and all amendments thereto shall
be maintained on file in the city clerk's office.
(Ord. of 11-17-86, § 2; Ord. of 3-20-89, § 5)
   Editor’s note–Ord. No. O-91-04, adopted Sept. 16, 1991, and Ord. No. O-95-
05, adopted June 28, 1995, Ord. No. O-09-01, adopted June 1, 2009, and Ord. O-
10-02, adopted April 5, 2010, approved amendments to the tax increments finance
and development plan for the downtown development authority.
Sec. 7.2-16. Boundaries of development area.
   The boundaries of the development area as set forth in the 1989 Amendments
to the plan are hereby adopted and confirmed.
(Ord. of 11-17-86, § 3; Ord. of 3-20-89, § 6)
Sec. 7.2-17. Confirmation and maintenance of base year assessment roll.
   (a)   The base year assessment roll previously prepared by the city assessor
is hereby confirmed and maintained as the rill applicable to the plan,
including the 1989 Amendments; provided, however, that the base year assessment
rill shall be adjusted prior to July 1, 1989 to reflect changes in the
boundaries of the development area resulting from amendments thereof. The base
year assessment roll shall list each taxing jurisdiction in the development
area on the effective date of the ordinance approving the plan, and on the
effective date of any ordinance approving the addition of property to the
development area, and the amount of tax revenue derived by each taxing
jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the property in the development area.
   (b)   The city assessor shall transmit copies of the base year assessment
roll to the city treasurer, county treasurer, authority and each taxing
jurisdiction, together with a notice that the base year assessment roll has
been prepared in accordance with the previous ordinances and this article and
the tax increment financing plans contained in the plan and the 1989
Amendments.
(Ord. of 11-17-86, § 4; Ord. of 3-20-89, § 7)
Sec. 7.2-18. Preparation of annual base year assessment roll.
   Each year within fifteen (15) days following the final equalization of
property in the development area, the city assessor shall prepare an updated
base year assessment roll. The updated assessment roll shall show the
information required in the initial base year assessment roll and, in addition,
the captured assessed value for that year. Copies of the annual base year
assessment roll, together with a notice that it has been prepared in accordance
with the development plan.
(Ord. of 11-17-86, § 5; Ord. of 3-20-89, § 8)
Sec. 7.2-19. Establishment of project fund; approval of depository.
   The treasurer of the authority shall establish a separate fund, which shall
be kept in a depository bank account or accounts in a bank or banks approved by
the treasurer of the city. All moneys received by the authority pursuant to the
1989 Amendments shall be deposited in the project fund. All moneys in the
project fund and earnings thereon shall be used only in accordance with the
plan, including the 1989 Amendments.
(Ord. of 11-17-86, § 6; Ord of 3-20-89, § 9)
Sec. 7.2-20. Payment of tax increments to authority.
   The city treasurer and the county treasurer shall, as ad valorem taxes are
collected on the property in the development area, pay that proportion of the
taxes, except for penalties and collection fees, that the captured assessed
value bears to the initial assessed value to the treasurer of the authority for
deposit in the project fund. The payments shall be made on the date or dates on
which the city treasurer and the county treasurer are required to remit taxes
to each of the taxing jurisdictions.
(Ord. of 11-17-86, § 7; Ord. of 3-20-89, § 10)
Sec. 7.2-21. Use of moneys in the project fund.
   The moneys credited to the project fund and on hand therein from time to
time shall be used annually in the following manner and following order of
priority.
   First, to pay into the debt retirement fund or funds for all outstanding
series of bonds issued pursuant to the plan including the 1989 amendments
thereto, or any other series of bonds issued or other obligations pledging tax
increment revenues or the authority as a source of debt service payments, an
amount equal to the interest and principal coming due (in the case of principal
whether by maturity or mandatory redemption) prior to the next collection of
taxes, less any credit for sums on hand in the debt retirement fund.
   Second, to establish a reserve account for payment of principal of and
interest on bonds issued pursuant to the plan to the extent required by any
resolution authorizing bonds.
   Third, to pay the administrative, auditing and operating costs of the
authority and the city pertaining to the development area, including planning
and promotion to the extent provided in the annual budget of the authority.
   Fourth, to repay the amounts advanced by the city for project costs,
including costs of preliminary plans, and fees for other professional services.
   Fifth, to pay, to the extent determined desirable by the authority and
approved by the city, the cost of implementing the remaining public
improvements as set forth in the plan to the extent those costs are not
financed from other sources.
   Sixth, to pay the cost of any additional improvements to the plan that are
determined necessary by the authority and approved by the city council in
accordance with the act.
(Ord. of 11-17-86, § 8; Ord. of 3-20-89, § 11)
Sec. 7.2-22. Annual report.
   Within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year, the authority
shall submit to the council, with copies to each taxing jurisdiction, a report
on the status of the project fund. The report shall include the amount and
source of revenue in the account, the amount and purpose of expenditures from
the account, the amount of principal of and interest on any outstanding
indebtedness, the amount in any bond reserve account, the initial assessed
value of the development area, the captured assessed value of the development
area and the amount of captured assessed value retained by the authority, the
tax increments received and the amount of any surplus from the prior year, and
any additional information requested by the council or deemed appropriate by
the authority. The secretary of the authority shall cause a copy of the report
to be published once in full newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Ord. of 11-17-86, § 10; Ord. of 3-20-89, § 12)
Sec. 7.2-23. Refund of surplus tax increments.
   Any surplus money in the project fund at the end of a year, as shown by the
annual report of the authority, shall be paid by the authority to the city
treasurer or the county treasurer, as shown by the annual report of the
authority, as the case may be, and rebated by each to the appropriate taxing
jurisdiction. For the purpose of this section, tax increment revenues in excess
of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per annum shall be deemed
surplus money.
(Ord. of 3-20-89, § 13)
Sec. 7.2-24. Agreement(s) with taxing jurisdictions.
   The mayor, city clerk and city manager are hereby authorized to execute an
agreement with one or more taxing jurisdictions or with the city treasurer and
county treasurer providing in substance that the city treasurer and county
treasurer may discontinue or limit payment of taxes that would otherwise result
in refunds as described in section 7.2-23 if this article.
(Ord. of 3-20-89, § 14)
CHAPTER 8.
ELECTRICITY
For state law as to electrical wiring, etc., generally, see M.C.L.A. §§
338.881-338.892.
As to buildings generally, see ch. 5 of this Code.
As to electrical interference, see §§ 13-12, 13-13.
As to plumbing, see ch. 15.
§ 8-1.   National Electric Code adopted by reference.
Sec. 8-1. National Electric Code adopted by reference.
   The National Electrical Code, 2002 edition, standard of the National Fire
Protection Association and approved by the American National Standards
Institute, is hereby enacted and adopted by reference. Copies of the code are
on file in the office of the city clerk. The National Electrical Code is hereby
made a part of this section with the same force and effect as if fully set
forth herein, and all electrical work and construction within the city shall
conform to the provisions and regulations.
CHAPTER 9.
FIRE PROTECTION
For charter provisions as to fire prevention generally, see Char., §§ 2.2 (23),
2.2 (28), 2.2 (30).
For state law as to fire prevention generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 29.1 to 29.34.
As to fire limits, see § 5-21 of this Code. As to repair of building injured by
fire, see § 5-24. As to fires and scattering of flammable materials in parks,
see § 14-18. As to fireworks and explosives in parks, see § 14-19. As to fires
on city boat landing, see § 14-51.
Article I. In General.
§§ 9-1 to 9-10.   Reserved for future legislation
§ 9-11.   Burning ordinance
§ 9-12.   Reserved
§ 9-13.   False fire alarms
§§ 9-14 to 9-26. Reserved for future legislation
Article III. Prohibition of Freestanding Outdoor Furnaces
§ 9-27.   Freestanding outdoor furnaces
§ 9-28.   Prohibition
§ 9-29.   Conflicts
§ 9-30.   Existing uses
§ 9-31.   Violations; declaration of nuisance
§ 9-32.   Penalty
§ 9-33.   Effective date
Article IV. Fire Department
§
9-34.   Title, authority and purpose
§
9-35.   Establishing a Fire Department
§
9-36.   Geographic coverage/service area
§
9-37.   Scope and level of services
§
9-38.   Basic organizational structure
§
9-39.   Fire Department finances
§
9-40.   Department by-laws, rules and regulations
§
9-41.   Chief duties
§
9-42.   Training
§
9-43.   Safety
Article I. In General.
Sec. 9-1. to 9-10. Reserved for future legislation.
Sec. 9-11. Burning Ordinance.
   (a)   Establishment of revised ordinances.
      (1)   Short title: This revised Ordinance shall be known as the "Burning
Ordinance" (last amended on March 26, 1945.)
      (2)   Authority: The authority for this Ordinance is set forth in Chapter
II, Section
2.1 of the City Charter of the City of Fremont.
      (3)   Purpose: This Ordinance is revised to preserve and protect public
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the City of Fremont
(hereinafter "City") by prohibiting certain burnings within the City limits.
   (b)   Definitions.
   Ashes/Soot: By-product and residue from fire
   City of Fremont Fire Department Approval: Written approval from the Fire
Chief, Assistant Chief or their designee
   Garbage: Any putrescible animal or vegetable waste resulting from handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of food
   Refuse: Any combustible trash including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, plastics, extrusions, furniture, and bedding, and non combustible trash
including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans and glass
   Yard Waste: Regular wastes produced from landscaping and gardening
activities including, but not limited to, leaves, grass clippings, vegetable or
other garden debris, shrubbery or brush or tree clippings or similar materials.
   (c)   Burning prohibited.
      (1)   General Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons
to burn, or cause to burn, assist in burning, continue or permit continuance of
the burning of any material including, but not limited to, refuse, garbage,
yard waste, papers and windblown refuse within the City limits of Fremont
except as prescribed herein.
      (2)   Streets, alleys, highways, curbs and sidewalks: No material of any
kind shall be burned or attempted to be burned in any street, alley or highway,
or between any curb and the sidewalk adjacent thereto, or any public or private
street rights-of-way within the City.
      (3)   Commercial incinerators: Commercial and industrial type
incinerators used for the burning of combustible solid waste material (non-
garbage) are prohibited by State law.
      (4)   Burning uses permitted: Exceptions to Section 9-11.3 are as
follows:
         a.   Open burning: No open burning other then recreational fires
referred to in part ‘C' of this Section, shall be allowed unless a burning
permit is first issued by the City Clerk. The permit must be signed by the Fire
Chief or his/her designee. If permitted, all burning shall be carried out in
accordance with Fire Department instructions and any other applicable rules
that may be adopted by the City or the State of Michigan.
         b.   Cooking fires: Fires are permitted for the cooking and smoking of
food for personal, non commercial uses provided that such fires are confined to
a barbecue grill, barbecue pit, smokehouse or other enclosure, and provided
further that the emission of smoke and fumes do not irritate, annoy or
constitute a nuisance to other property owners in the neighborhood.
         c.   Recreational fires: Recreational fires on private property are
permitted and do not need City Clerk or Fire Chief approval when in a pit or
pile which does not exceed three (3) feet in diameter, provided the following
conditions are met:
            1.   Fires are attended by a person at least 18 years of age until
extinguished ashes are cold.
            2.   Only clean wood products or commercially-produced fuel
products are burned.
            3.   The fire does not endanger other buildings or structures.
            4.   Atmospheric conditions are favorable.
            5.   Prohibit emission of smoke or fumes, which irritate, annoy or
constitute a nuisance to others living in the neighborhood.
         d.   Bonfires: Public or private bonfires in which material would
exceed three (3) feet in diameter require a permit issued by the City Clerk and
are subject to prior approval of the City Fire Department. Such approval may be
granted at the sole discretion of the Clerk and Fire Department based upon:
            1.   The proximity of the proposed bonfires to dwellings, trees and
other structures.
            2.   Facilities available for fire management.
            3.   Atmospheric conditions.
            4.   Type of material to be burned.
            5.   Any other consideration judged by the Clerk or Fire Department
to be required to ensure safe burning.
         e.   Contractor generated fires: Fires for the heating of outdoor
building sites shall not be permitted. Outdoor fires are permitted when
necessary to pursue a business or trade requiring the use of fire, including by
the way of example, but not necessarily by way of limitation, the heating,
boiling of tar, pitch or oil or other substances when used by roofer and other
tradesmen.
         f.   Papers: It shall be unlawful to burn paper, paper products or
other materials anywhere in the City unless burned inside a building in a
stove, fireplace or furnace sufficiently constructed to prohibit the escape of
ignited particles, provided that the emission of smoke and fumes does not
irritate, annoy or constitute a nuisance to other property owners in the
neighborhood.
      (5)   Exceptions and special circumstances.
         a.   Open fires are permitted in the performance of an official duty
by public officers for fires necessary for one or more of the following reason
or purposes:
            1.   For the prevention of a fire hazard that cannot be abated by
any other means.
            2.   For the instruction of public firefighters or industrial/
commercial employees under proper supervision of a qualified instructor.
            3.   For the protection of public health, safety, or welfare.
            4.   For controlled disposal of refuse or debris as collected by or
on behalf of the City at a site owned or operated by the City.
         b.   Special circumstances: In the sole discretion of the City fire
Department when there exist circumstances which lack any other reasonable means
of disposing of items which need to be disposed and not addressed herein, then
the Fire Department may issue a permit to burn.
      (6)   Remedies and liability for cost recovery.
         a.   Costs: All cost incurred by the City for enforcement of this
Ordinance shall be the responsibility of the part in violation of this
Ordinance.
         b.   Civil remedies: The City may pursue any other remedy, or may
institute any appropriate action for proceedings in a court with competent
jurisdiction or before any administrative agency to collect costs for liability
imposed for violation of this Ordinance.
      (7)   Violations; municipal civil infractions; authorized city officials;
civil fines and sanctions.
         a.   General provisions: Any violation of any provision of this
ordinance or of any permit granted herein, or of any lawful order of the City
Clerk, Fire Chief, or other public official issued in pursuance of this
Ordinance shall be and shall constitute a Municipal Civil Infraction. A
"violation" includes any act that is prohibited or made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense by this Ordinance and any omission failure where the act
is required by this Ordinance.
         b.   The sanction for any violation of this Ordinance, which
constitutes a Municipal Civil Infraction, shall be a Civil Fine as provided
hereunder, plus any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions as authorized
and permitted under Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Michigan Public Acts of
1961, as amended, and under other applicable laws:
            1.   Any person, individual, firm, partnership, co-partnership,
corporation, company, association, club, joint venture, and any other group,
entity or association acting as a unit, and the individuals constituting such
group, entity or unit, who, as a result of violating any provision of this
Ordinance, is responsible for Municipal Civil Infraction, shall pay a civil
fine to the City Clerk's, plus costs and other sanctions as authorized and
permitted by law, for each Municipal Civil Infraction. The first infraction of
this Ordinance shall carry a civil fine of fifty dollars ($50.00).
            2.   Repeat violations shall be subject to increased Civil Funds as
set forth below. As used in this Section, "repeat violation" means a second (or
any subsequent) Municipal Civil Infraction of requirement or provisions of this
Ordinance (1) committed by a violating party within any 12-month period, and
(2) for which the violating party admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible. The increased Civil Fine for a repeat violation under this
Ordinance shall be as follows:
               i.   The Civil Fine for any violation which is a repeat
violation shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) plus costs and other
sanctions as authorized and permitted by law.
               ii.   The Civil Fine for any violation which is a second (or any
subsequent) repeat violation shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus costs
and other sanctions as authorized and permitted by law.
      (8)   Compliance with federal and state law: Not withstanding anything
set forth in this Ordinance, all open burning permitted under the terms and
provisions of this Ordinance shall also be conducted and performed in
compliance with all federal and state laws, statutes, rules and regulations
applicable thereto.
      (9)   Severability: In any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.
      (10)   Conflicting ordinances and amendments superseded.
         a.   Present ordinance: On the effective date of the adoption of this
Ordinance, Sections 9-11 and 9-12 of Article I of Chapter 9 of the Fremont City
Code are hereby repealed.
         b.   Conflicts: All other ordinances, amendments or provisions
thereof, which may be inconsistent or in conflict with this Ordinance are
hereby repealed.
      (11)   Effective date: This Ordinance shall become effective ten (10)
days following publication; said effective date being October 23, 1999. (Ord.
O-99-04, 10-4-99)
Sec. 9-12. Reserved
Sec. 9-13. False fire alarms
   No person shall cause to be made any fire alarm without reasonable cause.
(7-23-23, 8.)
Sec. 9-14 to 9-26. Reserved for future legislation.
Article III. Prohibition of Freestanding Outdoor Furnaces
Sec. 9-27. Freestanding outdoor furnaces.
   Freestanding Outdoor Furnace - shall mean, but is not limited to, any
device, apparatus or structure that:
   1.   Is designed, intended or used to provide heat and/or hot water to any
residence or structure; and
   2.   Operates by burning wood or other solid fuel such as, but not limited
to, coal, paper or agricultural products; and
   3.   Is not located within the residence or structure for which it is
providing heat and/or hot water. (Ord. No. O-04-01, 3-15-04)
Sec. 9-28. Prohibition.
   It shall be unlawful to install or operate a freestanding outdoor furnace,
or to cause or permit the installation or operation of a freestanding outdoor
furnace, within the City. (Ord. No. O-04-01, 3-15-04)
Sec. 9-29. Conflicts.
   This Section shall not be construed as an exemption or exception to any
other provision of these Codified Ordinances. In the event of a conflict
between the provisions of this Section and any other ordinance or other
provision of law, the more restrictive provision shall apply. (Ord. No. O-04-
01, 3-15-04)
Sec. 9-30. Existing Uses.
   This Section shall not apply to any freestanding outdoor furnace that was
installed, connected and operating as of the effective date of this Section.
However, this Section shall not be deemed as specific authorization for the use
of any preexisting freestanding outdoor furnace and shall not be deemed to bar,
limit, or otherwise affect the rights of any person to take private legal
action regarding damage or nuisance caused by the use of a freestanding outdoor
furnace. (Ord. No. O-04-01, 3-15-04)
Sec. 9-31. Violations; Declaration of Nuisance.
   Any freestanding outdoor furnace installed or operated in violation of this
Section is hereby declared to be nuisance per se. (Ord. No. O-04-01, 3-15-04)
Sec. 9-32. Penalty.
   Whoever violates any provision of this Section is responsible for a
Municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the payment of a civil fine
in the amount as provided in this ordinance and all other sanctions that apply
to civil infractions for each infraction. Each day that a violation exists or
continues shall constitute a separate and additional violation. (Ord. No. O-04-
01, 3-15-04)
Sec. 9-33. Effective Date.
   Article III of this Ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days after
publication thereof in accordance with the provisions of the City of Fremont
City Charter. (Ord. No. O-04-01, 3-15-04)
Article IV. Fire Department
Sec. 9-34. Title, Authority and Purpose.
   (a)   Short title: This Article shall be known as the "Fire Department
Ordinance" (previously established by City Ordinance adopted on November 23,
1923, as amended.)
   (b)   Authority: The authority for this Article is set forth in the
following Sections of Chapter II of the City Charter of the City of Fremont:
      (1)   Section
2.1 "General Powers";
      (2)   Section
2.2 "Specific Powers"; and
      (3)   Section
2.3 "Intergovernmental Contracts".
   (c)   Purpose: This Article is adopted to:
      (1)   Preserve and protect public health, safety and general welfare of
the residents of the City of Fremont (hereinafter "City") by establishment of
the Fremont Fire Department.
      (2)   Provide for the basic organizational structure of said Department.
      (3)   Delegate broad management authority and responsibility to the City
Manager and Fire Chief.
      (4)   Provide standards of accountability of the Chief and other
Department personnel to the City Manager and City Council.
      (5)   Establish authority to adopt Department by-laws, rules and
regulations for the conduct of personnel and operation and maintenance of the
Department and its equipment.
      (6)   Employ, appoint and prescribe the powers and duties of a Chief,
firefighters and officers.
      (7)   Repeal any parts or portions of City ordinances inconsistent
herewith. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-35. Establishing a Fire Department.
   The City Council hereby establishes the "Fremont Fire Department"
(hereinafter referred to as "Department") as further organized, structured,
governed and regulated herein. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-36. Geographic Coverage/Service Area.
   The Department shall be responsible for providing services, as defined in
Section
9-37, to the entire geographic corporate limits of the City, as they may be
adjusted from time to time through annexation or other means permitted by the
State of Michigan Constitution or Statutes.
   The City Council may, through an intergovernmental contract or agreement,
authorize the Department to provide services to all or a portion of the
geographic area of any other governmental unit or agency, or with any number of
combinations thereof.
   The Department shall restrict its delivery of emergency services to the
geographic area or areas described in this Section and authorized by the City
Council, and to other jurisdictions with which the City Council has entered
into "mutual aid agreements." Mutual aid agreements may allow for the provision
of all or a portion of Department services. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-37. Scope and Level of Services.
   Consistent with appropriations and budget authorization, the Department is
authorized to provide the following programs and services within the City
Council authorized Service Area:
   (1)   Fire Suppression;
   (2)   Fire Education;
   (3)   Fire Prevention and Code Enforcement;
   (4)   Medical First Responder (Level 1 "life threatening emergencies" only);
and
   (5)   Rescue. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-38. Basic Organizational Structure.
   The Department shall be actively supervised and managed by a Fire Chief. In
accordance with Section
7.3 of the City Charter, the position of Fire Chief is an "administrative
officer" of the City and shall be appointed or removed by the City Council
based upon the City Manager's recommendation. As directed in the same Charter
Section
7.3, the City Manager shall "supervise and coordinate the work of all
administrative officers (including the Chief) and Departments (including the
Fire Department.)"
   To ensure continuity of command and appropriate incident supervision, the
City Council authorizes the following officer positions, which creates the
following chain of command in descending order of authority:
   (1)   Chief;
   (2)   Assistant Chief;
   (3)   1st Captain;
   (4)   2nd Captain;
   (5)   Lieutenant.
   With the advice and assistance of the City Manager, the Chief shall develop
and approve job descriptions and qualifications for each of the above officer
positions and all paid-per-call firefighters. Appointment and selection of the
above officers and firefighters shall be as prescribed in Department By-Laws as
authorized in Section
9-40. The Department shall consist of such number of members as are designated,
from time to time, by the City Council, consistent with appropriations, budget
authorization, service area, and scope and level of services. (Ord. No. O-08-
03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-39. Fire Department Finances.
   The City Council shall approve an annual appropriation for the operation and
maintenance of the Department and its equipment based on the recommendations
contained in the City Manager's proposed Annual City Operating & Capital
Improvement Budget. For that above purpose, the City Council shall have the
authority to:
   (1)   Use General Funds;
   (2)   Initiate the creation of a special assessment district and levy
special assessments;
   (3)   Sell bonds;
   (4)   Establish user fees;
   (5)   Bill for services rendered; and
   (6)   Raise revenues in any other manner provided for under State law and
consistent with the City Charter for the operation and maintenance of the
Department.
   The City Council shall provide for payment of any debts incurred incidental
to the Department's continued operation and shall purchase necessary equipment
and/or construct public buildings for uses incidental to the maintenance and
operation of the Department. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-40. Department By-Laws, Rules and Regulations.
   The City Council shall establish rules and regulations for the operations of
the Department and the care and use of the equipment through adoption of
general policies. The members of the Department shall draft their own by-laws,
which shall be reviewed and modified, if necessary, by the City Manager and
recommended for ratification by the City Council before becoming effective. The
Chief shall prepare and enforce specific operating procedures consistent with
such general policies and by-laws. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-41. Chief Duties.
   The Chief shall be accountable to the City Manager and City Council for the
efficient and effective operation for the Department, and for the Department's
compliance with all state laws and administrative rules, and City ordinances
and policies. The Chief may delegate or assign the completion of individual
duties as needed, but shall continue to remain accountable for their proper and
timely completion. Duties shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (a)   Develop written administrative rules to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Department, including pre-planning and post-incident
critiques, regulations, and assigning and scheduling of personnel.
   (b)   Develop plans for the long-range operating and capital needs of the
Department.
   (c)   Be familiar with state and federal laws that impact Department
operations, and develop written rules and regulations, and issue orders
consistent with applicable state and federal laws and administrative rules.
Department noncompliance with applicable state and federal laws and regulations
shall be promptly reported to the City Manager.
   (d)   Develop written policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the
General Industry Safety Standards of the Michigan Occupational Safety and
Health Act (MIOSHA). The Chief shall promptly inform the City Manager of any
procedure or equipment that is not in compliance with any MIOSHA General
Industry Safety Standards and shall recommend actions necessary to achieve
compliance.
   (e)   Hold regular Department informational and training meetings.
   (f)   Incur expenditures against the Department budget as appropriated by
the City Council. The Chief shall monitor the unencumbered balances remaining
in the Department budget and shall make timely recommendations to the City
Manager for budget amendments at such time as the need for such amendments
become known. The Department's expenditures shall not exceed the amounts
appropriated for each line item within the Department's budget. Capital outlay
purchases shall be made in compliance with the City's Purchasing Ordinance.
   (g)   The Chief shall also be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Supervise the extinguishment of all fires that endanger the health,
safety and welfare of the City.
      (2)   Enforce City burning ordinances.
      (3)   Ensure that all personnel are trained and qualified for the duties
that they are expected to fulfill.
      (4)   Ensure that the Department conducts fire prevention and education
programs.
      (5)   Ensure that all Department equipment, vehicles and buildings are
properly maintained and in good and safe working order.
      (6)   Ensure that all Department personnel comply with Departmental and
City rules, regulations and policies. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-42. Training.
   The Chief shall develop a regular schedule of in-house training classes,
including an attendance requirement for all Department personnel. The schedule
shall specify the type, amount and frequency of training to be provided to fire
service personnel necessary to ensure that all employees are adequately trained
to handle properly the inherent risks of fire fighting and other emergency
incidents. The Chief shall ensure that a record of each firefighter's
participation and skill mastery is maintained. Employees shall be trained
before they are permitted to perform emergency operations. The Chief shall
ensure that qualified individuals deliver in-house instruction.
   The Chief shall require that all firefighters have achieved and maintained
all certifications required by state or federal law or rule to perform fire
suppression, medical first responder, rescue or other services performed by the
Department. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-43. Safety.
   The Chief shall be familiar with the provisions of federal and state laws
and administrative rules related to employee safety and health regulations, and
shall develop written procedures to ensure compliance.
   The Chief shall establish and implement written procedures for emergency
operations in compliance with current MIOSHA regulations. The procedures shall
include all of the following:
   (1)   Compliance with a nationally recognized incident management system
that will be implemented at each emergency.
   (2)   A personnel accountability system that will be implemented at each
emergency.
   (3)   Applicability to all employees who are operating at the emergency.
   (4)   Initial training and annual refresher training in emergency operations
and the incident management system
   (5)   Procedures that are in accordance with the "two in / two out" rules as
found in the provisions of current MIOSHA standards.
   (6)   A properly trained employee shall function as the incident commander
at each emergency. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-44. Disciplinary Procedures.
   Disciplinary actions, procedures and proceedings shall be developed and
incorporated into the Department's by-laws as authorized under Section
9-40. Those actions, procedures or proceedings not addressed in the
Department's by-laws shall be governed by the City's Personnel Policies and
Procedures Manual. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-45. Compensation of Members.
   The amount and terms of compensation of the Chief, other officers and
firefighters shall be fixed from time to time by the City Council. The
Department shall keep accurate records that indicate the amount of compensable
time served by all personnel. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-46. Public Contact.
   The Fire Chief, or his/her designee, may release facts regarding fires or
other emergencies to the news media. The Chief, or designee, shall speak to the
media on behalf of the Department. All other personnel shall refer all media
inquiries requiring a statement on behalf of the Department to the Chief, or
designee.
   Department personnel shall not, in connections with Department activities or
functions, make statements or writings that constitute libel or slander; which
would impede a law enforcement investigation or compromise the presumption of
innocence until proven guilty; or which would deny any person due process.
   Members of the public may be allowed in or upon the Fire Station, other
Department facilities or vehicles only when accompanied by a member of the
Department or the City Manager or his/her designee. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-47. Emergency Response.
   When responding to emergencies, all personnel shall drive emergency vehicles
with appropriate concern for the safety of the public and defensive driving.
Use of emergency signals on vehicles shall be considered a "request" for the
right-of-way from other drivers.
   Use of emergency signal equipment shall be permitted only when the
Department has been officially dispatched to an emergency, or as part of a tour
or static demonstration.
   The Fire Chief shall establish written regulations regarding the use of
emergency signal equipment on City-owned and personal vehicles. (Ord. No. O-08-
03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-48. Department Equipment.
   Protective equipment shall be worn when engaged in firefighting in any
enclosed structure, or outdoors when warranted.
   Lost or damaged equipment shall be reported as soon as possible to a
Department officer. City property shall be disposed of only in accordance with
City rules or policies. All Department-issued equipment shall be returned to
the Chief upon terminating employment with the Department. (Ord. No. O-08-03,
3-17-08)
Sec. 9-49. Use of Fire Station and Equipment.
   Only City-owned vehicles and equipment may be kept or stored at the Fire
Station. Department equipment or vehicles shall not be borrowed for private
use. Private vehicles must be parked in designated areas only. Alcohol and
controlled substances shall not be brought into, used or consumed in the Fire
Station or in any City-owned vehicle, building or facility. (Ord. No. O-08-03,
3-17-08)
Sec. 9-50. Damage to Equipment.
   No person shall willfully damage, mar or deface in any manner any vehicle,
equipment or other apparatus of the Department or any building or structure
belonging to or connected with the Fire Department of this City. No person
shall in any manner molest, handle, meddle or interfere with any of the
apparatus in or about the Fire Station, at any emergency scene or elsewhere.
(Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-51. Powers and Duties Generally; Obedience of Persons at Emergency
Scene; Obstructing, Hindering or Resisting Performance of Duty.
   The incident commander shall have full power, control and command over all
members of the Fire Department and all other persons at emergency scenes. The
incident commander shall have the power to enforce the laws of the State, the
provisions of this Code and other ordinances of the City relative to the
conduct of persons at emergency scenes. Every person present at any emergency
scene shall obey the lawful orders of the incident commander and shall not
obstruct, hinder or resist them in the performance of their duties. (Ord. No.
O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-52. Soliciting Donations.
   All fundraising activities shall have the prior approval of the City
Manager, and all revenues solicited in the name of the Fire Department shall be
deposited with the City Treasurer. Such funds will be disbursed by the
Treasurer upon receipt of proper documentation signed by the Chief following
approval by the City Council. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-53. Destruction of Buildings to Arrest Progress of Fire.
   The Fire Chief, with the concurrence of the City Manager, may cause any
building to be pulled down or destroyed when deemed necessary in order to
arrest the progress of any fire, or to preserve the health, safety or welfare
of the public and no action shall be maintained against any person or against
the City. The costs for such actions, whether performed with the use of City-
owned equipment and personnel or by contractual private equipment or personnel,
may be assessed against the property and/or property owner. (Ord. No. O-08-03,
3-17-08)
Sec. 9-54. Savings Clause.
   Should any court of competent jurisdiction declare any portion of this
Article unenforceable, then the remainder of this Article shall remain in full
force and effect unaffected by the portion that might be so declared to be
unenforceable. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
Sec. 9-55. Effective Date.
   Upon adoption by the City Council, this Article shall become effective ten
(10) days after proper publication thereof, in accordance with the provisions
of the Fremont City Charter, said effective date being immediately on March 17,
2008. (Ord. No. O-08-03, 3-17-08)
CHAPTER 9.5.
FRANCHISES
*
Article I. Electric Franchise
§ 9.5-01.   Grant term.
§ 9.5-02.   Consideration.
§ 9.5-03.   Compliance with charter and ordinances.
§ 9.5-04.   Conditions.
§ 9.5-05.   Hold harmless.
§ 9.5-06.   Extensions.
§ 9.5-07.   Franchise not exclusive.
§ 9.5-08.   Rates.
§ 9.5-09.   Revocation.
§ 9.5-10.   Michigan Public Service Commission; jurisdiction.
§ 9.5-11.   Repealer.
§ 9.5-12.   Effective date.
§§ 9.5-13—9.5-30. Reserved.
Article II. Gas Franchise
§ 9.5-31.   Grant of gas franchise and consent to laying of pipes, etc.
§ 9.5-32.   Gas service and extension of system.
§ 9.5-33.   Use of streets and other public places.
§ 9.5-34.   Standards and conditions of service; rules, regulations and rates.
§ 9.5-35.   Successors and assigns.
§ 9.5-36.   Effective date; term of franchise ordinance; acceptance by company.
§ 9.5-37.   Effect and interpretation of article.
§§ 9.5-38. - 9.5-50. Reserved.
Article III. Communication Service
§ 9.5-51.   Grant of communication service franchise and consent to laying
fiber-optic cable, etc.
§ 9.5-52.   Communication service.
§ 9.5-53.   Nonexclusive franchise.
§ 9.5-54.   Emergencies.
§ 9.5-55.   Other permits.
§ 9.5-56.   No burden on public ways.
§ 9.5-57.   Minimum interference.
§ 9.5-58.   Restoration of property.
§ 9.5-59.   Tree trimming.
§ 9.5-60.   Relocation of facilities.
§ 9.5-61.   Private property.
§ 9.5-62.   Underground facilities.
§ 9.5-63.   Discontinuance and removal of the fiber-optic system.
§ 9.5-64.   Disclaimer of liability.
§ 9.5-65.   Indemnification.
§ 9.5-66.   Assumption of risk.
§ 9.5-67.   Defense of indemnitees.
§ 9.5-68.   Notice, cooperation and expenses.
§ 9.5-69.   Insurance.
§ 9.5-70.   Transfer of ownership; consent required.
§ 9.5-71.   Rates.
§ 9.5-72.   Charter/preemption.
§ 9.5-73.   Severability.
§ 9.5-74.   Conflicts/repealer.
§ 9.5-75.   Revocation of franchise.
§ 9.5-76.   Effective date.
Article IV. Use of Public Rights-Of-Way By
Telecommunication Providers
§ 9.5-77.   Purpose
§ 9.5-78.   Conflict
§ 9.5-79.   Terms Defined
§ 9.5-80.   Permit Required
§ 9.5-81.   Issuance of Permit
§ 9.5-82.   Construction/Engineering Permit
§ 9.5-83.   Conduit or Utility Poles
§ 9.5-84.   Route Maps
§ 9.5-85.   Repair of Damage
§ 9.5-86.   Establishment and Payment of Maintenance Fees
§ 9.5-87.   Modification of Existing Fees
§ 9.5-88.   Savings Clause
§ 9.5-89.   Use of Funds
§ 9.5-90.   Annual Report
§ 9.5-91.   Cable Television Operators
§ 9.5-92.   Existing Rights
§ 9.5-93.   Compliance
§ 9.5-94.   Reservation of Police Powers
§ 9.5-95.   Severablility
§ 9.5-96.   Authorized City Officials
§ 9.5-97.   Municipal Civil Infraction
§ 9.5-98.   Repealer
§ 9.5-99.   Effective Date
§§ 9.5-100. Reserved for Future Use
   *Cross references–Community antenna television, Ch. 7.1; licenses, Ch.11.
Article V. Communication Service – WMBB
§
9.5-101.   Grant of communication service franchise and consent to laying
fiber-optic cable, etc.
§
9.5-102.   Communication service.
§
 9.5-103.   Nonexclusive franchise.
§
9.5-104.   Emergencies.
§
 9.5-105.   Other permits.
§
9.5-106.   No burden on public ways.
§
9.5-107.   Minimum interference.
§
9.5-108.   Restoration of property.
§
9.5-109.   Tree trimming.
§
9.5-110.   Relocation of facilities.
§
9.5-111.   Private property.
§
9.5-112.   Underground facilities.
§
9.5-113.   Discontinuance and removal of the fiber-optic system.
§
9.5-114.   Disclaimer of liability.
§
9.5-115.   Indemnification.
§
9.5-116.   Assumption of risk.
§
9.5-117.   Defense of indemnitees.
§
9.5-118.   Notice, cooperation and expenses.
§
9.5-119.   Insurance.
§
9.5-120.   Transfer of ownership; consent required.
§
9.5-121.   Rates.
§
9.5-122.   Charter/preemption.
§
9.5-123.   Severability.
§
9.5-124.   Conflicts/repealer.
§
9.5-125.   Revocation of franchise.
§
9.5-126.   Effective date.
ARTICLE I. ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
Sec. 9.5-01. Grant term.
   The city hereby grants the right, power and authority to the Consumers
Energy Company, a Michigan corporation, its successors and assigns, hereinafter
called the "Grantee," to construct, maintain and commercially use electric
lines consisting of towers, masts, poles, crossarms, guys, braces, feeders,
transmission and distribution wires, transformers and other electrical
appliances for the purpose of transmitting, transforming and distributing
electricity on, under, along and across the highways, streets, alleys, bridges,
waterways, and other public places, here in after referred to as "Ways and
Places", and to do a local electric business in the city, for a period of ten
years.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-02. Consideration.
   In consideration of the rights, power and authority hereby granted, said
grantee shall faithfully perform all things required by the terms hereof.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-03. Compliance with charter and ordinances.
   Grantee, its successors and assigns, shall, in the operation of this
franchise, be subject to the terms and provisions of the charter of the city
and its duly adopted ordinances; provided, however, that nothing herein shall
be construed as a wavier by grantee of any of its existing or future rights
under state or Federal law.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)Ã
Sec. 9.5-04. Conditions.
   No ways and places used by said grantee shall be obstructed longer than
reasonably necessary or without city permit during the work of construction or
repair, and shall be restored to the same order and condition as when said work
was commenced. All of grantee's structures and equipment shall be so placed on
either side of the ways and places as not to interfere with the use thereof for
public purposes. All of grantee's wires carrying electricity shall be securely
fastened so as not to endanger or injure persons on property in said ways and
places. The grantee shall have the right to trim trees if necessary in the
conducting of such business, subject, however, to approval and supervision of
the city and/or highway authorities.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-05. Hold harmless.
   Said grantee shall at all times keep and save the city free and harmless
from all loss, costs, and expense to which it may be subject by reason of
grantee's construction and maintenance of the structures and equipment hereby
authorized. In case any action is commenced against the city on account of the
permission herein given, said grantee shall, upon notice, defend the city and
save it free and harmless and indemnify the city from all loss, cost, and
damage arising out of such construction and maintenance. Provided, however,
that the foregoing hold harmless and indemnity agreement shall not apply to any
loss, cost, fee, damage or claims arising solely out of the negligence of the
city, its employees or its contractors. Furthermore, in the event that any
loss, cost, fee, damage or claims arise out of the joint negligence of the
city, its employees or its contractors and grantee, this hold harmless
agreement shall not apply to the proportional extent of the negligence of the
city, its employees and its contractors
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-06. Extensions. 
   Said grantee shall construct and extend its electrical distribution system
within the city, and shall furnish electric service to applicants residing
therein in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Extensions
to newly developed areas or subdivisions are to be placed underground to the
extent required by and pursuant to applicable federal, state and local laws,
rules and regulations.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-07. Franchise not exclusive.
   The rights, power and authority herein granted, are not exclusive.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-08. Rates.
   Said grantee shall be entitled to charge the inhabitants of said city for
electric furnished therein, the rates as approved by the Michigan Public
Service Commission, to which Commission or its successors, authority and
jurisdiction to fix and regulate electric rates and rules regulating such
service in said city are hereby granted for the term of the franchise. Such
rates and rules shall be subject to review and change at any time upon petition
therefor being made by either said city, acting by its City Council, or by said
grantee.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-09. Revocation.
   The franchise granted by this article is subject to revocation upon sixty
(60) days written notice by the party desiring such revocation.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-10. Michigan Public Service Commission; jurisdiction.
   Said grantee shall, as to all other conditions and elements of service not
herein fixed, be and remain subject to the rules and regulations of the
Michigan Public Service Commission or its successors, applicable to electric
service in said city.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-11. Repealer.
   This article, when accepted and published as herein provided, shall repeal
and supersede the provisions of an electric ordinance adopted by the city on
October 6, 1975 entitled:
An ordinance granting to Consumers Power Company, its successors and assigns,
the right, power and authority to construct, maintain and commercially use
electric lines consisting of towers, masts, poles, crossarms, guys, braces,
feeders, transmission and distribution wires, transformers and other electrical
appliances on, under, along and across the highways, streets, alleys, bridges,
and other public places, and to do a local electric business in the city for a
period of thirty years.
and amendments, if any, to such ordinance whereby an electric franchise was
granted to Consumers Energy Company.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Sec. 9.5-12. Effective date.
   This article shall take effect upon the day after the date of publication
thereof: provided, however, it shall cease and be of no effect after thirty
days from its adoption unless within said period the grantee shall accept the
same in writing filed with the City Clerk. Upon acceptance and publication
hereof, this article shall constitute a contract between the city and said
grantee.
(Ord. No. O-15-05, 12-7-15)
Secs. §§ 9.5-13—9.5-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. GAS FRANCHISE
*
   *Editor's note–Ord. No. 0-94-04, adopted Dec. 19, 1994, has been included
herein at the discretion of the editor as Art. II, 9.5-31—9.5-36. Previously,
Ord. No. 0-94-03, adopted Sept. 19, 1994, enacted a gas franchise ordinance
which was subsequently repealed Nov. 7, 1994.
Sec. 9.5-31. Grant of gas franchise and consent to laying of pipes, etc.
   Subject to all the terms and conditions mentioned in this ordinance, consent
is hereby given to Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of Michigan (the "company"), and to its successors
and assigns, to lay, maintain, operate, and use gas pipes, mains, conductors,
service pipes, and other necessary equipment in the highways, streets, alleys,
and other public places in the City of Fremont, Newaygo County, Michigan, and a
franchise is hereby granted to the Company, its successors and assigns, to
transact local business in said City of Fremont for the purposes of conveying
gas into and through and supplying and selling gas in said City of Fremont and
all other matters incidental thereto.
(Ord. No. O-94-04, § 1, 12-19-94.)
Sec. 9.5-32. Gas service and extension of system.
   If the provisions and conditions herein contained are accepted by the
company, as in section 9.5-36 hereof, provided, then the company shall furnish
gas to applicants residing therein in accordance with applicable laws, rules
and regulations; and provided further that such initial installation and any
extensions shall be subject to the main extension provisions, the area
expansion program provisions (if not where applicable), and other applicable
provision now or from time to time hereafter contained in the company's rules
and regulations for gas service as filed with the Michigan Public Service
Commission or successor agency having similar jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-94-04, § 2, 12-19-94.)
Sec. 9.5-33. Use of streets and other public places.
   The company, its successors and assigns, shall not unnecessarily obstruct
the passage of any highways, streets, alleys, or other public places within
said City of Fremont and shall within a reasonable time after making an opening
or excavation, repair the same and leave it in as good condition as before the
opening or excavation, was made. The company, its successors and assigns, shall
use due care in exercising the privileges herein contained and shall be liable
to said City of Fremont for all damages and costs which may be recovered
against the City of Fremont arising from the default, carelessness, or
negligence of the company or its officers, agents, and servants.
   No road, street, alley, or highway shall be opened for the laying of trunk
lines or lateral mains except upon application to the highway commissioner or
the City of Fremont or other authority having jurisdiction in the premises,
stating the nature of the proposed work and the route. Upon receipt of such
application, it shall be the duty of the highway commissioner or the city
council, or such other authority as may have jurisdiction, to issue a permit to
the company to do the work proposed.
   The grantee, in the use of the highways, streets, alleys and other public
places of grantor shall, at grantees sole expense, construct, lay, modify,
change, operate and use all gas pipes, mains, conductors, service pipes and
other necessary equipment in the highways, streets, alleys and other public
places within the boundaries of grantor, as may be directed or required by
grantor for the purpose of allowing grantor to construct, lay, change, modify
or improve its highways, streets, alleys and other public places and any other
public places and any public improvement or appurtenances thereto or therein,
within the boundaries of grantor, and shall at all times conform to all
existing public improvements therein, and to any changes in grade made
thereafter by or under the direction of the city commission of grantor, at
grantee's sole expense; and shall at all times be subject to all ordinances now
or hereafter validly enforced, relative to the means of public protection.
(Ord. No. O-94-04, § 3, 12-19-94.)
Sec. 9.5-34. Standards and conditions of service; rules, regulations and rates.
   The company is now under the jurisdiction of the Michigan Public Service
Commission to the extent provided by statue; and the rates to be charged for
gas, and the standards and conditions of service and operation hereunder, shall
be the same as set forth in the company's schedule of rules, regulations, and
rates as applicable in the several cities, villages, and townships in which the
company is now rendering gas service, or as shall hereafter be validly
prescribed for the City of Fremont under the orders, rules, and regulations of
the Michigan Public Service Commission or other authority having jurisdiction
in the premises.
   The company, its successors and assigns, in the operation of the franchise
agreement, is expressly subject to the terms and provisions of the Charter of
the City of Fremont and said charter terms and provisions shall control unless
preempted by other law, statue or regulation.
(Ord. No. O-94-04, § 4, 12-19-94.)
Sec. 9.5-35. Successors and assigns.
   The words "Michigan Consolidated Gas Company" and "the company", wherever
used herein, are intended and shall be held and construed to mean and include
both Michigan Consolidated Gas company and its successors and assigns, whether
so expressed or not.
(Ord. No. O-94-04, § 5, 12-19-94.)
Sec. 9.5-36. Effective date; term of franchise ordinance; acceptance by
company.
   This article shall take effect twenty (20) days following the date of
publication thereof, which publication shall be made within fourteen (14) days
after the date of its adoption, and shall continue in effect for a period of
thirty (30) years thereafter, subject to revocation at the will of the City of
Fremont at any time during said thirty-year period; provided, however, that
when this ordinance shall become effective the city clerk shall deliver to the
company a certified copy of the article accompanied by written evidence of
publication and recording thereof as required by law, and the company shall,
sixty (60) days after the date this article takes effect, file with the city
clerk its written acceptance of the conditions and provisions hereof.
(Ord. No. O-94-04, § 6, 12-19-94.)
Sec. 9.5-37. Effect and interpretation of article.
   All ordinances and resolutions, and parts thereof, which conflict with any
of the terms of this article are hereby rescinded. In the case of conflict
between this article and any such ordinances or resolutions, this ordinances
shall control. The catch line headings which precede each section of this
article are for convenience in reference only and shall not be taken into
consideration in the construction or interpretation of any of the provisions of
this article.
(Ord. No. O-94-04, § 7, 12-19-94)
Sec. 9.5-38—9.5-50. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. COMMUNICATION SERVICE*
   *Editor's note–Ord. No. O-95-03, adopted May 15, 1995, has been included
herein at the discretion of the editor as Art. III, 9.5-51-9.5-76.
Sec. 9.5-51. Grant of communication service franchise and consent to laying
fiberoptic cable, etc.
   Subject to all the terms and conditions contained in this franchise
ordinance, the City Charter and city ordinances as from time to time in effect,
the city hereby grants Newaygo County Intermediate School District (the "ISD"),
and to its successors and assigns, consent to erect, construct, install,
maintain, and operate fiber-optic cable and other necessary equipment and
appurtenances in the highways, streets, alleys, and other public places in the
City of Fremont, Newaygo County, Michigan, and a franchise is hereby granted to
the ISD, its successors and assigns, to transact and conduct a communication
service in the City of Fremont for the purpose of transmitting and
communicating information by means fiber-optic cable to school systems, local
business and such other participants as may from time to time be determined,
and all other matters incidental thereto.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 1, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-52. Communication service.
   If the provisions and conditions herein contained are accepted by the ISD,
then the ISD shall provide communication service to such parties residing or
located in the City of Fremont as may from time to time be determined by the
ISD, provided same shall be in accordance with all applicable federal, state or
local laws, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, those of the
Michigan Public Service Commission or a successor agency having similar
jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 2, 2-15-95)
Sec. 9.5-53. Nonexclusive franchise.
   The franchise and all rights granted hereunder are nonexclusive. The city
reserves the right to grant such other and future franchises as it deems
appropriate. The franchise does not establish any priority for the use of
public rights-of-way by the ISD or by any present or future franchisees or
other permit holders. In the event of any dispute as to the priority of use of
the public rights-of-way the first priority shall be to the public generally,
the second priority to the city in the performance of its various functions,
and thereafter as between franchisees and other permit holders, as determined
by the city in the exercise of its powers, including the police power and other
powers reserved to and conferred on it by the State of Michigan.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 3, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-54. Emergencies.
   The city may remove or damage the fiber-optic cable and any associated
equipment or appurtenances, in the case of fire, disaster, or other emergencies
threatening life or property, as determined by the mayor, city manager, fire
chief, or police chief. In such event neither the city nor any agent,
contractor or employee thereof shall be liable to the ISD for any damages
caused to the ISD or the fiber-optic system, equipment or appurtenances.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 4, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-55. Other permits.
   This franchise does not relieve the ISD of the obligation to obtain permits,
licenses and other approvals from the city necessary for the construction,
repair or maintenance of the fiber-optic cable, equipment or appurtenances, or
compliance with the city ordinances such as compliance with right-of-way,
building permits and the like. No road, street, alley, or highway shall be
opened for the installing of laying of fiber-optic cable or associated
equipment and appurtenances except upon application to the highway commissioner
or the City of Fremont or other authority having jurisdiction in the premises,
stating the nature of the proposed work and the route. Upon receipt of such
application, it shall be the duty of the highway commissioner or the city
council or such other authority as may have jurisdiction, to issue a permit to
the ISD to do the work proposed.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 5, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-56. No burden on public ways.
   The ISD shall not erect, install, construct, repair, replace or maintain the
fiber-optic cable, equipment and appurtenances in such a fashion as to unduly
burden the present or future use of public ways. If the city in its reasonable
judgement determines that any portion of the fiber-optic cable, equipment or
appurtenances is an undue burden, the ISD at its expense shall modify its
system or take such other actions as city may determine are in the public
interests to remove or alleviate the burden, and the ISD shall do so within the
time period established by the city.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 6, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-57. Minimum interference.
   The fiber-optic cable, equipment and appurtenances shall be erected and
maintained by the ISD so as to cause the minimum interference with the use of
the public ways and within the rights or reasonable convenience of property
owners who adjoin any of the public ways.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 7, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-58. Restoration of property.
   The ISD shall immediately restore at its sole cost and expense, it a manner
approved by the city, any portion of the public ways that is in any way
disturbed by the construction, operation, maintenance or removal of the fiber-
optic cable, equipment or appurtenances, to as good or better condition than
that which existed prior to the disturbance, and shall at its sole cost and
expense immediately restore and replace any other property, real or personal,
disturbed, damages or in any manner damaged by or on account of the ISD, or by
its acts or commissions to as good or better condition as such property was in
immediately prior to the disturbance, damage or injury.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 8, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-59. Tree trimming.
   The ISD may trim trees upon the overhanging the public ways so as to prevent
the branches of such trees from coming into contact with the fiber-optic cable,
equipment or appurtenances. The ISD shall minimize the trimming of trees to
trimming only those trees which are essential to maintain the integrity of the
fiber-optic cable system. No trimming shall be performed in the public ways
without previously informing city. All trimming of trees, except in an
emergency, on public property shall have the prior approval of city and, except
in an emergency, all trimming of trees on private property shall require the
consent of the property owner.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 9, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-60. Relocation of facilities.
   The ISD shall at its own cost and expense, protect, support, disconnect,
relocate or remove from the public ways any portion of the fiber-optic cable,
equipment or appurtenances, when required to do so by city.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 10, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-61. Private property.
   The ISD shall be subject to all laws, ordinances or regulations, regarding
private property in the course of constructing, installing, operating or
maintaining the fiber-optic cable system in city. The ISD shall comply with all
zoning and land use restrictions as may hereafter exist or may hereafter be
amended.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 11, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-62. Underground facilities.
   If the city in the future requires that, in a specific area of the city,
public utilities shall place their cables, wires, or other equipment
underground, the ISD shall also place its existing and future cables, wires,
and other equipment underground within a reasonable period of time, not to
exceed six (6) months of notification by the city, and the same shall be
without expense or liability therefor to the city. In those developing areas
where underground facilities are required, the ISD shall install the necessary
cables, wires or other equipment at the same time and utilize the same trenches
as other utility companies, such as telephone or electric utilities.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 12, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-63. Discontinuance and removal of the fiber-optic system.
   Upon the revocation, termination or expiration of this franchise, unless an
extension is granted, the ISD shall immediately discontinue the provision of
technology communication services and all rights of this ISD to use the public
ways shall cease. The ISD, at the direction of the city, shall remove its
fiber-optic cable, equipment and appurtenances, from the public ways, in, over,
under, along, or through which they are installed within six (6) months of the
revocation, termination, or expiration of this franchise. The ISD shall also
restore any property, public or private, to the condition in which it existed
prior to the installation, erection or construction of its fiber-optic cable
system. Restoration of the city property shall be in accordance with the
directions and specifications of the city and all applicable laws, ordinances
and regulations, at ISD's sole expense. If such removal and restoration is not
completed within six (6) months after the revocation, termination, or
expiration of this franchise, all of the ISD's property remaining in the
affected public ways shall, at the option of the city be deemed abandoned, and
shall, at the option of the city, become its property or the city may obtain a
court order compelling the ISD to remove same. In the event the ISD fails or
refuses to remove its fiber-optic cable system, equipment and appurtenances, or
to satisfactorily restore all areas to the condition in which they existed
prior to the original construction of said system, the city, at its option, may
perform such work, and collect the costs thereof from the ISD.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 13, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-64. Disclaimer of liability.
   The city shall not at any time be liable for injury or damage occurring to
any person or property from any cause whatsoever arising out of the
construction, maintenance, repair, use, operation, condition or dismantling of
ISD's fiber-optic cable system or service.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 14, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-65. Indemnification.
   The ISD shall at its sole cost and expense indemnify an hold harmless the
city and all associated, affiliated, allied and subsidiary entities of the
city, now existing or hereinafter created, and their respective officers,
boards, commissions, attorneys, agents, and employees (hereinafter referred to
as "indemnitees,") from and against any and all liability, obligation, damages,
penalties, claims, liens, costs, charges, losses, and expenses, including
reasonable fees and attorney expenses, whether legal or equitable, which may be
imposed upon, incurred by or be asserted against the Indemnities by reason of
any act or omission of the ISD, its personnel, employees, agents, or
contractors, which may arise out of or be in any way connected with the
construction, installation, operation, maintenance or condition of the fiber-
optic cable system, equipment, appurtenances or services (including those
arising from any manner contained in or resulting from the transmission of
information or programming over said system and including any claim or lien
arising out of work, labor, materials or supplies provided or supplied to the
ISD, its contractors or subcontractors), the provision of services by the ISD,
the ISD's failure to comply with any federal, state or local statute, ordinance
or regulations.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 15, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-66. Assumption of risk.
   The ISD understands and assumes for its officers, agents, contractors and
subcontractors and employees, all risk of dangerous conditions, if any, on or
about any city-owned or controlled property, including public ways, and the ISD
hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the indemnitees for personal
injury or property damage to any person arising out of the installation,
operation, maintenance or condition of the fiber-optic cable system or the
ISD's failure to comply with any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance or
regulation.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 16, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-67. Defense of indemitees.
   In the event any action or proceeding shall be brought against the
indemnitees by reason of any matter for which the indemnitees are indemnified
hereunder the ISD shall, upon notice from any of the indemnitees, at ISD's sole
cost and expense, resist and defend the same with legal counsel selected by the
city, provided further, the ISD shall not admit liability in any such matter on
behalf of the indemnitees without the written consent of the city.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 17, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-68. Notice, cooperation and expenses.
   The city shall give the ISD prompt notice of the making of any claim or the
commencement of any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to the city's
liability or indemnification. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the
city from cooperating with the ISD and participating in the defense of any
litigation by the city's open counsel.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 18, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-69. Insurance.
   At all times during the terms of this franchise, including any time for
removal of facilities or restoration, the ISD shall obtain, maintain and pay
premiums for all insurance policies of such type and in such amounts as
required by the city. The ISD shall file with the city certificates of
insurance evidencing coverage as so required. Failure to obtain and maintain
any insurance policy required may be grounds for revocation or termination of
this franchise, at the option of the city.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 19, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-70. Transfer of ownership; consent required.
   This franchise and the fiber-optic cable system shall not be sold,
transferred, assigned, or otherwise encumbered, without the prior consent of
the city, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 20, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-71. Rates.
   Any rates charged for services provided by the ISD shall be in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the Michigan Pubic Service Commission or such
other public agencies or authorities or governmental entities as may have
jurisdiction to set same, if any.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 21, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-72. Charter/preemption.
   The ISD, its successors and assigns, in the operation of the franchise
agreement, is expressly subject to the terms and provisions of the Charter of
the City of Fremont and said Charter terms and provisions shall control unless
preempted by other law, statute or regulation.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 22, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-73. Severability.
   If any section, paragraph or provision of this franchise shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this franchise.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 23, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-74. Conflicts/repealer.
   All ordinances and resolutions and parts thereof, which conflict with any of
the terms of this article are hereby rescinded. In the case of conflict between
this article or any such ordinances and resolutions, this article shall
control.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 24, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-75. Revocation of franchise.
   This franchise may be revoked at the will of the City of Fremont.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 25, 5-15-95.)
Sec. 9.5-76. Effective date.
   This article shall take effect on June 4, 1995.
(Ord. No. O-95-03, § 26, 5-15-95.)
ARTICLE IV: USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY BY TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDERS
Sec. 9.5-77.   Purpose.
   The purposes of this Article are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002) (hereinafter "Act") and
other applicable law, and to ensure that the City of Fremont qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-78.   Conflict.
   Nothing in this Article shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-79.   Terms Defined.
   The terms used in this Article shall have the following meanings:
   Act means the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002), as amended from time to
time.
   City means the City of Fremont (hereinafter "City.")
   City Council means the City Council of the City of Fremont (hereinafter
"Council") or its designee. This Section does not authorize delegation of any
decision or function that is required by law to be made by the Council.
   City Manager means the City Manager or his or her designee.
   Permit means a non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
Article to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
City for its telecommunications facilities.
   All other terms used in this Article shall have the same meaning as defined
or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following:
   Authority means the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to Section 3 of the Act.
   MPSC means the Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services (hereinafter "MPSC"), and shall have the same
meaning as the term "Commission" in the Act.
   Person means an individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
   Public Right-of-Way (hereinafter " public ROW") means the area on, below or
above a public roadway, highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. Public
right-of-way does not include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
   Telecommunication Facilities or Facilities (hereinafter "telecom
facilities") means the equipment or personal property, such as copper and fiber
cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits, pipes and sheaths, which are used to
or can generate, receive, transmit, carry, amplify or provide telecommunication
services or signals. Telecommunication facilities or facilities do not include
antennas, supporting structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses and
any ancillary equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally
licensed commercial mobile service as defined in section 332(d) of Part I of
Title III of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47
U.S.C. 332 and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR
20.3, and service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
   Telecommunications Provider, Provider and Telecommunications Services
(hereinafter "telecom provider" or "telecom service") mean those terms as
defined in Section 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 PA 179, MCL
484.2102. Telecommunication provider does not include a person or an affiliate
of that person when providing a federally licensed commercial mobile radio
service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of the Communications Act of
1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, or service provided by any
wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose of the Act and this
Article only, a provider also includes all of the following:
   a.   A cable television operator that provides a telecom service.
   b.   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns telecom
facilities located within a public ROW.
   c.   A person providing broadband Internet transport access service.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-80.   Permit Required.
   a.   Permit Required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a telecom
provider using or seeking to use public ROW in the City for its
telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit pursuant to
this Article.
   b.   Application. Telecom providers shall apply for a permit on an
application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with Section 6(1) of the
Act. A telecom provider shall file one copy of the application with the City
Clerk, one copy with the City Manager and one copy with the City Attorney.
Applications shall be complete and include all information required by the Act,
including without limitation a route map showing the location of the provider's
existing and proposed facilities in accordance with Section 6(5) of the Act.
   c.   Confidential Information. If a telecom provider claims that any portion
of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application contain trade
secret, proprietary or confidential information that is exempt from the Freedom
of Information Act, 1976 PA 442, MCL 15.231 to 15.246, then pursuant to Section
6(5) of the Act, the telecom provider shall prominently so indicate on the face
of each map.
   d.   Application Fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a one-time
non-refundable application fee in the amount of $500.00 shall accompany the
application.
   e.   Additional Information. The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit such additional information that the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the City Manager. If the City and the applicant cannot agree on
the requirement of additional information requested by the City, the City or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in Section 6(2) of the Act.
   f.   Previously Issued Permits. Pursuant to Section 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the City under Section 251 of
the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 PA 179, MCL 484.2251 and
authorizations or permits issued by the City to telecom providers prior to the
1995 enactment of Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act but after
1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of this Article.
   g.   Existing Providers. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, within one
hundred eighty (180) days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act,
a telecom provider with facilities located in a public ROW in the City as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under
Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 PA 179, MCL 484.2251,
shall submit to the City an application for a permit in accordance with the
requirements of this Article. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, a telecom
provider submitting an application under this Subsection is not required to pay
the $500.00 application fee required under Subsection (d) above. A provider
under this Subsection shall be given up to an additional 180 days to submit the
permit application if allowed by the Authority, as provided in Section 5(4) of
the Act.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-81.   Issuance of Permit.
   a.   Approval or Denial. The authority to approve or deny an application for
a permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of
the Act, the City Manager shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within forty-five (45) days from the date a telecom provider files an
application for a permit under Section 80(b) of this Article for access to a
public ROW within the City. Pursuant to Section 6(6) of the Act, the City
Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City Manager has granted or denied a
permit, including information regarding the date on which the application was
filed and the date on which permit was granted or denied. The City Manager
shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   b.   Form of Permit. If an application for permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with Sections 6(1),
6(2) and 15 of the Act.
   c.   Conditions. Pursuant to Section 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecom provider's access and usage of the public ROW.
   d.   Bond Requirement. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on Subsection (c) above, the City Manager may require that a bond be
posted by the telecom provider as a condition of the permit. If a bond is
required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the public ROW
is returned to its original condition during and after the telecom provider's
access and use.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-82.   Construction/Engineering Permit.
   A telecom provider shall not commence construction upon, over, across or
under the public ROW in the City without first obtaining a construction or
engineering permit as required under Chapter 18 of this Code, as amended, for
construction within the public ROW. No fee shall be charged for such a
construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-83.   Conduit or Utility Poles.
   Pursuant to Section 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this Article does not give a telecom provider a
right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-84.   Route Maps.
   Pursuant to Section 6(7) of the Act, a telecom provider shall, within ninety
(90) days after the substantial completion of construction of new telecom
facilities in the City, submit route maps showing the location of the telecom
facilities to both the MPSC and to the City. The route maps should be in paper
format unless and until the MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with
Section 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-85.   Repair of Damage.
   Pursuant to Section 15(5) of the Act, a telecom provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecom facilities within a public ROW
or temporarily obstructing a public ROW in the City, as authorized by a permit,
shall promptly repair all damage done to the street surface and all
installations under, over, below or within the public ROW and shall promptly
restore the public ROW to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-86.   Establishment and Payment of Maintenance Fee.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the City set forth
in Subsection 80(d) above, a telecom provider with telecom facilities in the
City's public ROW shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the Authority pursuant
to Section 8 of the Act.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-87.   Modification of Existing Fees.
   In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(1) of the Act, the City
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to telecom providers
after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, relating to access and
usage of the public ROW, to an amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and
charges required under the Act, which shall be paid to the Authority. In
compliance with the requirements of Section 13(4) of the Act, the City also
hereby approves modification of the fees of providers with telecom facilities
in public ROW within the City's boundaries, so that those providers pay only
those fees required under Section 8 of the Act. The City shall provide each
telecom provider affected by the fee with a copy of this Article, in compliance
with the requirement of Section 13(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are
charged telecom providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or
which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby
declared to be contrary to the City's policy and intent, and upon application
by a provider or discovery by the City, shall be promptly refunded as having
been charged in error.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-88.   Savings Clause.
   Pursuant to Section 13(5) of the Act, if Section 8 of the Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under Section 87 above
shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-89.   Use of Funds.
   Pursuant to Section 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the City from
the Authority shall be used by the City solely for ROW related purposes. In
conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the City from the
Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the Local Street
Fund maintained by the City under Act No. 51 of the Public Acts of 1951.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-90.   Annual Report.
   Pursuant to Section 10(5) of the Act, the City Manager may file an annual
report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-91.   Cable Television Operators.
   Pursuant to Section 13(6) of the Act, the City shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband Internet transport access services.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-92.   Existing Rights.
   Pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein
with respect to fees, this Article shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecom provider or the City may have under a permit issued by the City or
under a contract between the City and a telecom provider related to the use of
the public ROW.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-93.   Compliance.
   The City hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this Article
is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions hereof
should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose. The City shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including but not
limited to the following:
a.   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act, 1976 PA
442, MCL 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in Section 80(c) of this Article;
b.   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with Section 80(f) of this Article;
c.   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with Section 80(g) of this Article;
d.   Approving or denying an application for a permit within forty-five (45)
days from the date a telecom provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public ROW within the City, in accordance with Section
81(a) of this Article;
e.   Notifying the MPSC when the City has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with Section 81(a) of this Article;
f.   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance with
Section 81(a) of this Article;
g.   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in Section 81(b) of this
Article;
h.   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the telecom
provider's access and usage of the public ROW, in accordance with Section 81(c)
of this Article;
i.   Not requiring a bond of a telecom provider that exceeds the reasonable
cost to ensure that the public ROW is returned to its original condition during
and after the telecom provider's access and use, in accordance with Section 81
(d) of this Article;
j.   Not charging any telecom providers any additional fees for construction or
engineering permits, in accordance with Section 82 of this Article;
k.   Providing each telecom provider affected by the City's ROW fees with a
copy of this Article, in accordance with Section 87 of this Article;
l.   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with and if
required by Section 90 of this Article; and
m.   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to pay
certain franchise fees, in accordance with Section 91 of this Article.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-94.   Reservation of Police Powers.
   Pursuant to Section 15(2) of the Act, this Article shall not limit the
City's right to review and approve a telecom provider's access to and ongoing
use of a public ROW or limit the City's authority to ensure and protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-95.   Severability.
   The various parts, sentences, paragraphs, sections and clauses of this
Article are hereby declared to be severable. If a court or administrative
agency of competent jurisdiction adjudges any part, sentence, paragraph,
section or clause of this Article unconstitutional or invalid, the
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the constitutionality or
validity of any remaining provisions of this Article.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-96.   Authorized City Officials.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized City official to issue citations (directing alleged violators to
appear in court) for violations under this Article as provided by the City
Code.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-97.   Municipal Civil Infraction.
   A person who violates any provision of this Article or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
shall be subject to civil infraction fines and costs as provided by Chapter 5.1
"Civil Infractions" of the Fremont City Code. Nothing in this Section shall be
construed to limit the remedies available to the City in the event of a
violation by a person of this Article or a permit.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-98.   Repealer.
   All ordinances and portions of ordinances inconsistent with this Article are
hereby repealed.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Sec. 9.5-99.   Effective Date.
   This Ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days after publication as provided
by the Fremont City Charter.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
Secs. 9.5-100 - Reserved for Future Use.
   Councilmember Jane Drake moved the adoption of the foregoing Ordinance,
which was supported by Councilmember James Rynberg and thereupon adopted by the
City of Fremont at a regular meeting, held this 16th day of December 2002.
(Ord. No. O-02-11; 12-16-02)
ARTICLE V. COMMUNICATION SERVICE - WMBB
Sec. 9.5-101.   Grant of communication service franchise and consent to laying
fiber-optic cable, etc.
   Subject to all the terms and conditions contained in this franchise
ordinance, the City Charter and city ordinances as from time to time in effect,
the city hereby grants West Michigan Broadband (the “WMBB”), and to its
successors and assigns, consent to erect, construct, install, maintain, and
operate fiber-optic cable and other necessary equipment and appurtenances in
the highways, streets, alleys, and other public places in the City of Fremont,
Newaygo County, Michigan, and a franchise is hereby granted to the WMBB, its
successors and assigns, to transact and conduct a communication service in the
City of Fremont for the purpose of transmitting and communicating information
by means fiber-optic cable to local businesses, residents and such other
participants as may from time to time be determined, and all other matters
incidental thereto. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-102.   Communication service.
   If the provisions and conditions herein contained are accepted by the WMBB,
then WMBB shall provide communication service to such parties residing or
located in the City of Fremont as may from time to time be determined by the
WMBB, provided same shall be in accordance with all applicable federal, state
or local laws, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, those of
the Michigan Public Service Commission or a successor agency having similar
jurisdiction. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-103.   Nonexclusive franchise.
   The franchise and all rights granted hereunder are nonexclusive. The city
reserves the right to grant such other and future franchises as it deems
appropriate. The franchise does not establish any priority for the use of
public rights-of-way by the WMBB or by any present or future franchisees or
other permit holders. In the event of any dispute as to the priority of use of
the public rights-of-way the first priority shall be to the public generally,
the second priority to the city in the performance of its various functions,
and thereafter as between franchisees and other permit holders, as determined
by the city in the exercise of its powers, including the police power and other
powers reserved to and conferred on it by the State of Michigan. (Ord. No. O-
22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-104.   Emergencies.
   The city may remove or damage the fiber-optic cable and any associated
equipment or appurtenances, in the case of fire, disaster, or other emergencies
threatening life or property, as determined by the city manager, fire chief or
police chief. In such event neither the city nor any agent, contractor or
employee thereof shall be liable to the WMBB for any damages caused to the WMBB
or the fiber-optic system, equipment or appurtenances. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-
22)
Sec. 9.5-105.   Other permits.
   This franchise does not relieve the WMBB of the obligation to obtain
permits, licenses and other approvals from the city necessary for the
construction, repair or maintenance of the fiber-optic cable, equipment or
appurtenances, or compliance with the city ordinances such as compliance with
right-of-way, building permits and the like. No road, street, alley, or highway
shall be opened for the installing of laying of fiber-optic cable or associated
equipment and appurtenances except upon application to the highway commissioner
or the City of Fremont or other authority having jurisdiction in the premises,
stating the nature of the proposed work and the route. Upon receipt of such
application, it shall be the duty of the highway commissioner or the city
council or such other authority as may have jurisdiction, to issue a permit to
the WMBB to do the work proposed. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-106.   No burden on public ways.
   The WMBB shall not erect, install, construct, repair, replace or maintain
the fiber-optic cable, equipment and appurtenances in such a fashion as to
unduly burden the present or future use of public ways. If the city in its
reasonable judgement determines that any portion of the fiber-optic cable,
equipment or appurtenances is an undue burden, the WMBB at its expense shall
modify its system or take such other actions as city may determine are in the
public interests to remove or alleviate the burden, and the WMBB shall do so
within the time period established by the city. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-107.   Minimum interference.
   The fiber-optic cable, equipment and appurtenances shall be erected and
maintained by the WMBB so as to cause the minimum interference with the use of
the public ways and within the rights or reasonable convenience of property
owners who adjoin any of the public ways. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-108.   Restoration of property.
   The WMBB shall immediately restore at its sole cost and expense, it a manner
approved by the city, any portion of the public ways that is in any way
disturbed by the construction, operation, maintenance or removal of the fiber-
optic cable, equipment or appurtenances, to as good or better condition than
that which existed prior to the disturbance, and shall at its sole cost and
expense immediately restore and replace any other property, real or personal,
disturbed, damages or in any manner damaged by or on account of the WMBB, or by
its acts or commissions to as good or better condition as such property was in
immediately prior to the disturbance, damage or injury. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-
22)
Sec. 9.5-109.   Tree trimming.
   The WMBB may trim trees upon the overhanging the public ways so as to
prevent the branches of such trees from coming into contact with the fiber-
optic cable, equipment or appurtenances. The WMBB shall minimize the trimming
of trees to trimming only those trees which are essential to maintain the
integrity of the fiber-optic cable system. No trimming shall be performed in
the public ways without previously informing city by submission of map
detailing areas. All trimming of trees, except in an emergency, on public
property shall have the prior approval of city and, except in an emergency, all
trimming of trees on private property shall require the consent of the property
owner. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-110.   Relocation of facilities.
   The WMBB shall at its own cost and expense, protect, support, disconnect,
relocate or remove from the public ways any portion of the fiber-optic cable,
equipment or appurtenances, when required to do so by city, which city will not
do without official cause. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-111.   Private property.
   The WMBB shall be subject to all laws, ordinances or regulations, regarding
private property in the course of constructing, installing, operating or
maintaining the fiber-optic cable system in city. The WMBB shall comply with
all zoning and land use restrictions as may hereafter exist or may hereafter be
amended. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-112.   Underground facilities.
   If the city in the future requires that, in a specific area of the city,
public utilities shall place their cables, wires, or other equipment
underground, the WMBB shall also place its existing and future cables, wires,
and other equipment underground within a reasonable period of time, not to
exceed six (6) months of notification by the city, and the same shall be
without expense or liability therefor to the city. In those developing areas
where underground facilities are required, the WMBB shall install the necessary
cables, wires or other equipment at the same time and utilize the same trenches
as other utility companies, such as telephone or electric utilities. (Ord. No.
O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-113.   Discontinuance and removal of the fiber-optic system.
   Upon the revocation, termination or expiration of this franchise, unless an
extension is granted, the WMBB shall immediately discontinue the provision of
technology communication services and all rights of this WMBB to use the public
ways shall cease. The WMBB, at the direction of the city, shall remove its
fiber-optic cable, equipment and appurtenances, from the public ways, in, over,
under, along, or through which they are installed within six (6) months of the
revocation, termination, or expiration of this franchise. The WMBB shall also
restore any property, public or private, to the condition in which it existed
prior to the installation, erection or construction of its fiber-optic cable
system. Restoration of the city property shall be in accordance with the
directions and specifications of the city and all applicable laws, ordinances
and regulations, at WMBB’s sole expense. If such removal an restoration is not
completed within six (6) months after the revocation, termination, or
expiration of this franchise, all of the WMBB’s property remaining in the
affected public ways shall, at the option of the city be deemed abandoned, and
shall, at the option of the city, become its property or the city may obtain a
court order compelling the WMBB to remove same. In the event the WMBB fails or
refuses to remove its fiber-optic cable system, equipment and appurtenances, or
to satisfactorily restore all areas to the condition in which they existed
prior to the original construction of said system, the city, at its option, may
perform such work, and collect the costs thereof from the WMBB. (Ord. No. O-22-
03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-114.   Disclaimer of liability.
   The city shall not at any time be liable for injury or damage occurring to
any person or property from any cause whatsoever arising out of the
construction, maintenance, repair, use, operation, condition or dismantling of
WMBB’s fiber-optic cable system or service. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-115.   Indemnification.
   The WMBB shall at its sole cost and expense indemnify an hold harmless the
city and all associated, affiliated, allied and subsidiary entities of the
city, now existing or hereinafter created, and their respective officers,
boards, commissions, attorneys, agents, and employees (hereinafter referred to
as “indemnitees,”) from and against any and all liability, obligation, damages,
penalties, claims, liens, costs, charges, losses, and expenses, including
reasonable fees and attorney expenses, whether legal or equitable, which may be
imposed upon, incurred by or be asserted against the Indemnities by reason of
any act or omission of the WMBB, its personnel, employees, agents, or
contractors, which may arise out of or be in any way connected with the
construction, installation, operation, maintenance or condition of the fiber-
optic cable system, equipment, appurtenances or services (including those
arising from any manner contained in or resulting from the transmission of
information or programming over said system and including any claim or lien
arising out of work, labor, materials or supplies provided or supplied to the
WMBB, its contractors or subcontractors), the provision of services by the
WMBB, the WMBB’s failure to comply with any federal, state or local statute,
ordinance or regulations. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-116.   Assumption of risk.
   The WMBB understands and assumes for its officers, agents, contractors and
subcontractors and employees, all risk of dangerous conditions, if any, on or
about any city-owned or controlled property, including public ways, and the
WMBB hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the indemnitees for personal
injury or property damage to any person arising out of the installation,
operation, maintenance or condition of the fiber-optic cable system or the
WMBB’s failure to comply with any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance
or regulation. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-117.   Defense of indemnitees.
   In the event any action or proceeding shall be brought against the
indemnitees by reason of any matter for which the indemnitees are indemnified
hereunder the WMBB shall, upon notice from any of the indemnitees, at WMBB’s
sole cost and expense, resist and defend the same with legal counsel selected
by the city, provided further, the WMBB shall not admit liability in any such
matter on behalf of the indemnitees without the written consent of the city.
(Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-118.   Notice, cooperation and expenses.
   The city shall give the WMBB prompt notice of the making of any claim or the
commencement of any action, suit or other proceeding with respect to the city’s
liability or indemnification. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the
city from cooperating with the WMBB and participating in the defense of any
litigation by the city’s open counsel. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-119.   Insurance.
   At all times during the terms of this franchise, including any time for
removal of facilities or restoration, the WMBB shall obtain, maintain and pay
premiums for all insurance policies of such type and in such amounts as
required by the city. The WMBB shall file with the city certificates of
insurance evidencing coverage as so required. Failure to obtain and maintain
any insurance policy required may be grounds for revocation or termination of
this franchise, at the option of the city. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-120.   Transfer of ownership; consent required.
   This franchise and the fiber-optic cable system shall not be sold,
transferred, assigned, or otherwise encumbered, without the prior consent of
the city, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-
22)
Sec. 9.5-121.   Rates.
   Any rates charged for services provided by the WMBB shall be in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the Michigan Public Service Commission or
such other public agencies or authorities or governmental entities as may have
jurisdiction to set same, if any. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-122.   Charter/preemption.
The WMBB, its successors and assigns, in the operation of the franchise
agreement, is expressly subject to the terms and provisions of the Charter of
the City of Fremont and said Charter terms and provisions shall control unless
preempted by other law, statute or regulation. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-123.   Severability.
   If any section, paragraph or provision of this franchise shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this franchise. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-124.   Conflicts/repealer.
   All ordinances and resolutions and parts thereof, which conflict with any of
the terms of this article are hereby rescinded. In the case of conflict between
this article or any such ordinances and resolutions, this article shall
control. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-125.   Revocation of franchise.
   This franchise may be revoked at the will of the City of Fremont. (Ord. No.
O-22-03, 6-6-22)
Sec. 9.5-126.   Effective date.
   This article shall take effect on June 16, 2022, ten days following
adoption. (Ord. No. O-22-03, 6-6-22)
2024 S-9   98.23
CHAPTER 10.
HEALTH AND SANITATION.
Reserved for Future Legislation
For charter provisions as to nuisances, see Char., §§ 2.2 (13), 2.2 (17).
For state law as to public nuisances generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 600.3801 -
600.3840
As to animals and fowl generally, see ch. 3 of this Code. As to cemeteries, see
ch. 6. As to civil defense and disaster, see ch. 7. As to pollution of water in
parks, see § 14-26. As to maintenance and use of restrooms and washrooms in
parks, see § 14-34. As to sanitation of premises with respect to refuse and
garbage, see § 16-3. As to weeds and noxious vegetation generally, see §§ 16-
11, 16-12. As to deposit of matter subject to rot, etc., see §§ 16-14 to 16-17.
As to water and sewers generally, see ch. 21.
CHAPTER 11.
LICENSES*
Article I. In General
§§ 11-1—11-20. Reserved.
Article II. Circuses, Exhibitions, Etc.
§ 11-21.   Licenses required; fees.
§ 11-22.   Entertainments presented by city, churches, etc; athletic events.
§ 11-23.   Maintenance of order at circuses, etc.
§ 11-24.   Reserved.
§ 11-25.   Exemption of persons calling on established businesses.
§ 11-26.   Issuance.
§ 11-27.   Effect of article on sections 13-18 – 13-20.
Article III. Mechanical Amusement and Musical Devices - Revoked
§§ 11-28—11-35. Reserved.
Article IV. Transient Merchants
§ 11-36.   Defined; exceptions.
§ 11-37.   License – Required.
§ 11-38.   Prima facie evidence.
§ 11-39.   Penalty.
§ 11-40.—11-42. Reserved.
Article V. Mobile Ice Cream Vending Vehicles and Vending of Products From Same
- Revoked
§ 11-43—11.70. Reserved.
Article VI. Liquor Licenses
§ 11-71.   Title.
§ 11-72.   Purposes.
§ 11-73.   Definitions.
§ 11-74.   Application for new licenses.
§ 11-75.   Transfer of existing licenses.
§ 11-76.   Objections to renewal and requests for revocation.
§ 11-77.   Applicability.
§ 11-78.   Fees.
§ 11-79.    Revocation of prior policies.
§ 11-80—11-84. Reserved.
Article VII. Medical Marihuana
§ 11-85.   Findings.
§ 11-86.   Administrative action.
§ 11-87.   Term of this article.
*Charter reference – Licensing of trades, occupations, etc., §§ 2.2(11), 2.2
(14), 2.2(26), 2.2(29).
Cross references – Licensing of dogs,
3-11,
3-12; licensing of auctioneers, §§
4-7 –
4-10; registration and licensing of bicycles, §§ 12-10 – 12-14; medical
marihuana,
ch. 23.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 11-1—11-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. CIRCUSES, EXHIBITIONS, ETC.
Sec. 11-21. Licenses required; fees.
   Every person engaged in or carrying on any of the following occupations,
trades, vocations or lines of business in the city shall obtain approval
therefor from the city council, and the fee or charge for every such license
shall be as follows:
   (a)   Every circus, menagerie, museum, travel exhibition or show exhibiting
in a tent within the corporate limits of the city and charging one dollar
($1.00) or more admission, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day; charging less
than one dollar ($1.00) and not less than fifty cents ($.50) maximum admission,
fifty dollars ($50.00) per day; charging less than fifty cents ($.50) maximum
admission, twenty dollars ($20.00) per day.
   The license issued to any such exhibition shall include a permit for one (1)
street parade for each day. If such exhibition shall be located outside the
city limits one-half of the license fee herein provided shall be charged for a
license to parade through the streets of the city.
   (b)   Every theatrical exhibition, performance, play, concert or show of any
other kind, except motion picture theaters and activities sponsored by non-
profit organizations, for which an admission is charged, which shall exhibit
elsewhere that in a tent or the community building within the city, twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) per day.
   (c)   No person shall operate any loud speaking radio or other sound
amplifying device upon any of the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other
public places in the city or upon any private premises in the city where sound
of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of being
heard upon any of the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other public places or
upon any adjacent premise, without obtaining a license so to do from the city
clerk and paying a license fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each day or fraction
of a day during which such device shall be so operated; provided, that such
license shall be approved by the chief of police or, in his absence, the mayor
of the city.
(6-12-39, § 1)
Sec. 11-22. Entertainments presented by city, churches, etc.; athletic events.
   No license shall be required for any entertainment or exhibition by the city
or the public or by any private or public school, for any concert, play or
entertainment for the exclusive benefit of any church or benevolent project in
said city or for any game of baseball, basketball or football or other athletic
events.
(6-12-39, § 1)
Sec. 11-23. Maintenance of order at circuses, etc.
   It shall be the duty of any person having or holding a license for a circus,
menagerie, museum, show or other theatrical exhibition or performance to keep
good order in and about such place of amusement, exhibition or entertainment,
and for that purpose to keep thereat a sufficient police force at his expense.
(6-12-39, § 1)
Sec. 11-24. Reserved for future legislation.
Sec. 11-25. Exemption of persons calling on established businesses.
   Persons who call upon established commercial businesses in the city for the
purpose of selling wares or merchandise normally held for resale by such
businesses or normally used or consumed in the operation of such business are
exempt from the provisions of this article.
Sec. 11-26. Issuance.
   Such licenses shall be obtained by making application therefor to the city
clerk upon forms to be provided for that purpose and upon the payment of the
license fee prescribed by this article. (6-12-39, § 2)
Sec. 11-27. Effect of article on sections 13-18 to 13-20.
   Nothing contained in this article shall operate to repeal, amend, modify or
in any manner affect the operation of sections 13-18 to 13-20.
(6-12-39, § 3)
ARTICLE III. MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT AND MUSICAL DEVICES - REVOKED
Secs. 11-28—11-35. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Sec. 11-36. Defined; exceptions.
   The term “transient merchant” as used in this article shall mean any person
engaged temporarily in the retail sale of goods, wares or merchandise in any
place in this city, and who, for the purpose of conducting such business,
occupies any lot, building, truck, trailer, stall, room or structure of any
kind. Such term, however, shall not apply to the following:
   (a)   Any person selling goods, wares, food or merchandise of any
description, raised, produced or manufactured by the individual offering the
same for sale on their own property.
   (b)   Any person operating stores or refreshment stands on any fair-ground
in the city, including the city park during city festivals, after first having
obtained approval of the city.
   (c)   Any person conducting business on property owned by such person.
(Ord. No. O-16-02, 12-5-16)
Sec. 11-37. License – Required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either as principal or agent, to engage
in business as a transient merchant in the city except for those listed in Sec.
11-36.
(Ord. No. O-16-02, 12-5-16)
Sec. 11-38. Prima facie evidence.
   Transaction of business as defined in section
11-36 for a period of less than three months consecutively shall be deemed
prima facie evidence that such person was a transient merchant within the
intent and meaning hereof.
(Ord. No. O-16-02, 12-5-16)
Sec. 11-39. Penalty.
   Any violation of this article shall be a civil infraction and any person
convicted thereof shall be punished in accordance with section
1-6 of this Code.
(Ord. No. O-16-02, 12-5-16)
Secs. §§ 11-40—11-42. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. MOBILE ICE CREAM VENDING VEHICLES AND VENDING OF PRODUCTS FROM SAME
- REVOKED
Secs. 11-43—11-70. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. LIQUOR LICENSES*
   *Editor’s note – Ord. No. O-95-01, adopted Feb. 6, 1995, amended Ch. 11 by
the addition of Art. VI, said provisions being designated at the discretion of
the editor as 11-71 – 11-79.
Sec. 11-71. Title.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the “Fremont Liquor License
Chapter.”
(Ord. No. O-95-01, 2-6-95)
Sec. 11-72. Purposes.
   This article is established to cause the greatest benefit to the city in its
use of powers with regard to the issuance, transfer, renewal or revocation of
liquor licenses within its jurisdiction. This article is established in order
to provide an orderly and nondiscriminatory procedure for the review and
approval, by the city, of any and all requests for liquor licenses or any
matter relating thereto, for the sale or dispensation of alcoholic beverages
within the city, and each person who desires such a license, or the approval or
renewal of the same, shall comply with this article.
(Ord. No. O-95-01, 2-6-95)
Sec. 11-73. Definitions.
   As used in this article:
   (a)   Alcoholic beverages means any spirituous, vinous, malt or fermented
liquor, liquid or compound, whether or not medicated, proprietary or patented,
and by whatever name called, which contains one-half of one percent or more of
alcohol by volume and which is fit for use for beverage purposes.
   (b)   Person means and includes any person or legal entity of any kind,
either non-profit or for-profit, that desires to have or is already in
possession of any license issued by the state for the sale and dispensation of
alcoholic beverages in the city pursuant to a liquor license of any kind.
(Ord. No. O-95-01, 2-6-95)
Sec. 11-74. Application for new licenses.
   (a)   Submission to state. An application for a liquor license under this
article shall submit an application for a liquor license to the state liquor
control commission at such time and in the manner as may be specified from time
to time by the state liquor control commission.
   (b)   Submission to city. The applicant for liquor license under this
article shall submit a current and fully completed application to: City Clerk,
City of Fremont, 101 East Main, Fremont, Michigan 49412.
   (c)   Required information. The city application shall be signed by the
applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a
partnership or corporation, and shall include at least the following
information:
   (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant, in the case of an
individual, or, in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof, or, in the case of a corporation, the name and
addresses of the officers and directors thereof, and, if an aggregate of more
than ten (10) percent of the stock of such corporation is owned by any one (1)
person or his or her nominee, the name and address of such person;
   (2)   The type of license desired;
   (3)   The nature of the business of the applicant and, in the case of a
corporation, the object for which it was formed;
   (4)   A written statement as to the applicant’s character, experience and
financial ability to meet the obligations and business undertakings for which
the license is to be issued, including the period of time such applicant has
been in the business of that nature or, in the case of a corporation, the date
when its certificate of incorporation was issued;
   (5)   The location and description of the premises which is to be operated
under such license;
   (6)   If the business of the applicant is to be operated or conducted by a
local manager or agent, the name and address of such manager or agent;
   (7)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has, prior to the
application, applied for a license to sell beer and wine or spirits and, if so,
the date, place and disposition of such application;
   (8)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified from receiving approval for a license by reason or any
matter or thing contained in this article or the laws of the state;
   (9)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the ordinances
of the city or laws of the state or of the United States in the conduct of his
or her business;
   (10)   A statement that the applicant, should any of the information
provided in his or her application or any attachment thereto change during the
term of the license or any renewal thereof, will notify the city clerk, in
writing, within thirty (30) days of such change;
   (11)   An eight and one-half (8 ½) by eleven (11) inch building and grounds
and layout diagram showing the entire structure, premises and grounds, specific
areas where the license is to be utilized and the relationship of the proposed
structure to the surrounding property and land use, and demonstrating adequate
off-street parking, lighting and refuse disposal facilities and, where
appropriate, adequate plans for screening and noise control.
   (12)   A minimum of three (3) character endorsements of the applicant,
partners or stockholders, as the case may be; and
   (13)   Any other information pertinent to the applicant and to the operation
of the proposed facility as may be required by city council (hereinafter
referred to as “council”) by prior notice to the applicant.
   (d)   Fee. The application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee, in
an amount determined by council, to cover the cost of investigation, review and
inspection by the city of the application.
   (e)   Administrative recommendations. Following receipt of the fully
completed application, the fee and such other information as may be requested
by the city, the city clerk shall forward the application to the police
department, the fire department, the county building inspector, the county
health department and such other department as required by the city manager,
which departments shall make their recommendations prior to consideration of
the application by council. In making its review, the city may request from the
applicant other pertinent information.
   (f)   Placement on council agenda. Upon receipt by the city clerk’s office
of the recommendation of the police department, the fire department, the county
building inspector, the county health department and other departments as
required, the clerk shall cause the application to be placed upon the agenda of
council within sixty (60) days after receipt of the same in his or her office.
All applications are subject to the final approval of council.
   (g)   Council action. At the initial meeting before council to consider the
application, council shall generally take one of the following steps:
   (1)   Recommend to the state liquor control commission approval of the
application above all others for the issuance of a liquor license;
   (2)   Reject the application stating the reasons for such rejection;
   (3)   Ask the applicant to proceed with the submitted plans so that a more
detailed and complete proposal may be heard by council at a later date,
provided, however, that this action by council shall not be interpreted to mean
approval of the application or the general details of the proposal; or
   (4)   Postpone action on the application for a period not to exceed sixty
(60) days. The sixty-day limitation for postponement of action may be waived by
the applicant if the postponement is for the purpose of supplying council with
additional information requested of the applicant by council, when the
applicant is unable to supply the requested information within the stated time
period.
   (h)   Decision criteria. Council, in making its decision, shall consider the
following criteria on the application:
   (1)   The applicant’s management experience in the alcohol/liquor business;
   (2)   The applicant’s general business management experience;
   (3)   The applicant’s general business reputation;
   (4)   The applicant’s moral character;
   (5)   The applicant’s financial status and ability to build and/or operate
the proposed facility on which the proposed liquor license is to be located;
   (6)   Past criminal convictions of the applicant for crimes involving moral
turpitude, violence or alcoholic beverages;
   (7)   The applicant’s excessive use of alcoholic beverages;
   (8)   The effect that the issuance of a license would have upon the economic
development of the surrounding area;
   (9)   The effect that the issuance of a license would have on the health,
welfare and safety of the general public;
   (10)   The recommendations of the local law enforcement agency, the county
building inspector, the county health department and/or the fire department
with respect to the proposed facility;
   (11)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated the public need or convenience
for the issuance of the liquor license for the business facility at the
location proposed;
   (12)   The uniqueness of the proposed facility when contrasted against other
existing or proposed facilities;
   (13)   The number of liquor licenses issued by the city within the past
seventy-two (72) months;
   (14)   Whether the facility to which the proposed liquor license is to be
issued complies, or will comply, with the building, plumbing, electrical, fire
prevention and zoning codes of the city and any other building, plumbing,
electrical, fire prevention and zoning statutes and ordinances applicable to
the city;
   (15)   The effect that the business facility to which the proposed license
is to be issued will have upon vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the area;
   (16)   The proximity of the proposed business facility to other similarly
situated licensed liquor facilities;
   (17)   The effect that the business facility to which the proposed license
is to be issued will have upon the surrounding neighborhood and/or business
establishments;
   (18)   The permanence of the establishment in the community as evidenced by
the proposed or actual commitments made by the applicant;
   (19)   Such other considerations as council may deem proper; and
   (20)   If “Outdoor Service” is requested by a permanent license holder, then
service and consumption of alcoholic beverages and the permitted areas for
patron assembly shall be confined to a permanent, fully approved structure or
area, which primarily houses the liquor-licensed premises in compliance with
the provisions of this section and other City ordinances and regulations, and
for which an approved permit has not been issued. Outdoor dining/service areas
must be well-defined and licensee shall not sell, or allow the consumption of
alcoholic liquor outdoors, except in the defined area that has been approved by
the City’s Zoning Administrator.
In making its determination under this section, the council may weigh variously
the above factors.
   (i)   Applicant qualification and grounds for denial. Notwithstanding any
other section of this article to the contrary, no license shall be approved
for;
   (1)   A person, for any location which council determines, by a majority
vote, is unsuitable for on-premises consumption of beer and wine or spirits,
considering:
      a.   The proximity of other premises licensed to sell beer and wine or
spirits for on-premises consumption;
      b.   The lack of any other facilities or uses on the premises to be
licensed which are compatible with a license for on-premises consumption of
beer and wine or spirits (e.g. a restaurant or hotel);
      c.   The distance from public or private schools for minors, playgrounds,
public parks or churches;
      d.   The proximity of an inconsistent zoning classification or land use;
      e.   Traffic safety;
      f.   The accessibility to the site from abutting roads;
      g.   The capability of abutting roads to accommodate the commercial
activity; and
      h.   Such other relevant factors as council may deem appropriate;
   (2)   A person, for any premises which council determines, by a majority
vote, does not or will not, within six (6) months of the approval of the
license by council, or prior to the commencement of business, whichever occurs
first, have adequate off-street parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities,
screening or noise or nuisance control, provided, however, that upon timely
request and for good cause shown, council may extend any deadline established
by this paragraph;
   (3)   A person, for any premises which does not comply with applicable
building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing, fire prevention, zoning or public
health codes and regulations, provided, however, that council may approve an
application subject to compliance with the applicable codes and regulations
within sixty (60) days;
   (4)   A person who does not own the premises for which the license approval
is sought or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   (5)   A law enforcing public official or a member of council, and no such
official shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the
manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages;
   (6)   A person who, at the time of application for such approval, transfer
or renewal, is delinquent in the payment of any taxes, fees or other charges
owed to or collected by the city;
   (7)   A person whose liquor license has been revoked or not renewed for
cause under this article, or a comparable city, township, county ordinance, or
state law, whether in Michigan or otherwise;
   (8)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
qualify for approval of a license;
   (9)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or a stock
owner or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than ten (10) percent of the
stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive approval for a
license hereunder for any reason;
   (10)   A person whose place of business is operated or conducted by a
manager or agent, unless such manager or agent possesses the same
qualifications required of the licensee;
   (11)   A person who has been convicted of a crime punishable by imprisonment
in excess of one (1) year under the law under which he or she was convicted, or
of a crime involving theft, dishonesty or false statement (including tax
evasion) regardless of punishment, or of crime or administrative violation of a
federal or state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of
alcoholic beverages or controlled substances; or
   (12)   A person based upon such other relevant factors as council may deem
appropriate.
   (j)   Consideration of conditional approval. Once an applicant who has been
asked to proceed by presenting a more detailed and complete proposal has
sufficiently completed his or her plans, and obtained site plan, engineering,
zoning, planning and other necessary approvals from the city, the applicant may
then request consideration by council of a conditional approval. Upon the
receipt of a written notice by an applicant that he or she requests
consideration of a conditional approval, the city clerk shall cause the
application to be placed on the agenda of council for council’s action within
sixty (60) days of the receipt of the same by the office of the clerk. At that
meeting, the applicant shall be prepared to discuss the following:
   (1)   Cost estimates for the buildings, furnishings and fixtures as part of
the proposal;
   (2)   Site plan information, including landscaping and other aesthetic
features of the proposal;
   (3)   Estimates of the number of employees required for the operation;
   (4)   Information on the individuals expected to manage the operation, as
well as information as to how the facility would actually be managed;
   (5)   Information about any entertainment or dancing that might be involved;
and
   (6)   Answers to any related questions about the proposed improvements and/
or general operation of the facility.
   (k)   Disposition of request for and contingencies of conditional approval.
Following this presentation by the applicant, council may conditionally
approve, above all others, the application, postpone consideration for a
reasonable period or reject the application. Conditional approval will be
contingent upon obtaining building permits and any other necessary permits,
licenses or approvals from the city within six (6) months from the date of such
conditional approval, including the correction of any existing noncompliance
with codes and regulations referred to in paragraph (i)(3) hereof. The
construction of new buildings and alterations of existing buildings shall
commence within six (6) months after the date of the conditional approval, with
a completion date of not more than one (1) year after the issuance of the
relevant building permit. Extensions for completion of construction or
alterations may be granted by council for good cause. The applicant shall
execute in writing an acknowledgement and acceptance of all conditions under
which the council has determined to recommend approval of licensure for the
applicant.
   (l)   Change of approval requirements for conditionally approved applicants.
After receipt of a conditional approval by council, no floor plan, building
elevation, site plan, seating arrangement, kitchen layout or other pertinent
fact, drawing or document submitted to council shall be changed without the
applicant first receiving approval from the council. Conditional approval by
the council shall not be transferable by applicant. A change of partners in a
partnership or a change of ten (10) percent or more of the stock ownership of a
corporation shall be deemed a transfer hereunder. A transfer made without prior
approval by the council shall cause revocation, without further action by the
council, of conditional approval, and the applicant shall be required to
resubmit ab initio its application.
   (m)   Recommendation of conditionally approved applicant to state liquor
control commission. Upon completion of the building and in accordance with the
prior conditional approval of council, council shall recommend the applicant,
above all others, to the state liquor control commission for approval of the
liquor license.
   (n)   Reservation of authority. No applicant for a liquor license has a
right to the issuance of such license to him or her. Council reserves the right
to exercise the maximum discretion as is allowed by law to determine who, if
anyone, shall be entitled to the issuance of such a license.
   (o)   Criteria for selecting among qualified applicants. When any such
license is available for issuance to a new applicant, either by lapse of a
current license or by the authorization and allocation of additional licenses
to the city, and there exist more qualified applicants for such licenses than
the number of new licenses available for issuance, council shall choose the
most qualified applicant or applicants for approval based upon the following
criteria:
   (1)   The location of the proposed new business and its desirability in
light of its location, the surrounding land uses and its proximity to other
premises licensed for on- premises consumption;
   (2)   The experience of the applicant;
   (3)   The other uses proposed to be included on the premises or in the
development (e.g. a restaurant or motel);
   (4)   The cost and size of the overall project and the number of new jobs to
be created or current jobs retained;
   (5)   The relative suitability of the design and size of the business to the
property on which it is proposed to be located, as evidenced by any building
and grounds layout diagram required to be submitted with the application;
   (6)   The overall development or redevelopment of the city; and
   (7)   Such other relevant factors as council may deem appropriate.
In making its determination under this section, the council may weigh variously
the above factors under the circumstances of each application.
(Ord. No O-95-01, 2-6-95; Ord. No. O-10-06, 11-1-10)
Sec. 11-75. Transfer of existing licenses.
   The transfer of any existing liquor license covered under this article shall
be subject to each of the requirements, criteria and procedures, including
fees, set forth in this article for the granting of a new liquor license. In
addition, the transferee-applicant shall agree, and sign releases if necessary
for that purpose, to allow the City of Fremont, its agents or employees to
review and inspect any and all records and files which may be in the possession
of the state liquor control commission or the possession of the applicant
regarding the commission’s investigation of the transferee as a present
licensee or as a previous licensee, or of a business or other legal entity in
which the transferee has had an interest.
(Ord. No. O-95-01, 2-6-95)
Sec. 11-76. Objections to renewal and requests for revocation.
   (a)   Council action. Council may object to a renewal of a liquor license or
request the revocation of a liquor license by the state liquor control
commission.
   (b)   Procedure. Before filing an objection to a renewal or a request for
revocation of a license with the state liquor control commission, council shall
serve the license holder, by first class mail, mailed not less than ten (10)
days prior to the hearing, a notice of such hearing, which notice shall contain
the following information:
   (1)   Notice of the proposed action;
   (2)   The reasons for the proposed action;
   (3)   The date, time and place of such hearing; and
   (4)   A statement that the licensee may present evidence and testimony, may
confront witnesses and may be represented by a licensed attorney.
   (c)   Hearing. Such hearing may be conducted by council as a whole or by a
hearing officer appointed by council for such purpose. If a hearing officer is
appointed, it shall be that officer’s duty to undertake such hearing and to
hear and take evidence and testimony of the licensee or of witnesses on his or
her behalf or in opposition to such licensee. The licensee may, at his or her
expense, employ a reporter to transcribe the testimony given at the hearing and
make a transcript of the testimony. After such hearing, the hearing officer
shall make a recommendation to council for the latter’s ultimate final review
and decision. Council shall submit to the license holder and the state liquor
control commission a written statement of its ultimate findings and
determination.
   (d)   Criteria for nonrenewal or revocation. Council may recommend
nonrenewal or revocation of a license upon a determination by it that, based
upon the evidence presented at the hearing, any of the following exists:
   (1)   A violation of any of the restrictions on licenses set forth in
section 11-74(i);
   (2)   Maintenance of a nuisance upon the premises;
   (3)   Failure to comply with the requirements of the State Liquor Control
Act or the Administrative Rules of the Liquor Control Commission;
   (4)   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this article;
   (5)   A violation of any law or ordinance in the conduct of the licensee’s
business; or
   (6)   Failure to comply with any promise or representation made by the
applicant to council or with any condition imposed upon the applicant as a
basis for the approval.
(Ord. No. O-95-01, 2-6-95)
Sec. 11-77. Applicability.
   This article shall apply only to applications for licenses to sell beer,
wine or spirits for on- premises consumption, including, but not limited to,
Class “B” licenses, Class “C” licenses, resort licenses, tavern licenses and
hotel licenses. This shall not, in any event, apply to applications for SDM or
SDD licenses, special licenses granted by the state liquor control commission
or one-day permits as allowed by statute.
(Ord. No. O-95-01, 2-6-95)
Sec. 11-78. Fees.
   The city council may from time to time, by resolution, set fees to be paid
to the City of Fremont for license transfers, issuance of original licenses,
and investigation of applicants, provided same shall not be in conflict with
statutes of the State of Michigan or rules or regulations adopted by the
Michigan Liquor Control Commission.
(Ord. No. O-95-01, 2-6-95)
Sec. 11-79. Revocation of prior policies.
   All prior policies effected by the council regarding the subject matter of
this ordinance are hereby revoked.
(Ord. No. O-95-01, 2-6-95)
Secs. 11-80 - 11-84. Reserved.
Article VII. Medical Marihuana
Sec. 11-85. Findings.
   1.   On November 4, 2008, the voters of Michigan passed the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008. This Act does not provide guidance to
local governments regarding the sale and dispensing of medical marihuana. As a
result, municipalities throughout Michigan are working through legal and zoning
issues related to the sale and dispensing of medical marihuana.
   2.   The provisions within the City of Fremont Code of Ordinances, which
includes the City’s Zoning Ordinance, do not address the sale or dispensation
of medical marihuana.
   3.   It is within the rights and authority of the City of Fremont to
establish reasonable regulations to control the sale and dispensation of
medical marihuana in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
its citizenry.
   4.   Further study is necessary in order to analyze potential impacts of the
Michigan Marihuana Act and to ascertain the best and safest means to comply
with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act and to draft appropriate amendments to
the Code of Ordinances.
   5.   Imposing a moratorium, on a limited basis, is reasonable and necessary
in order to allow time for review of the issues relevant to the Michigan
Medical Marihuana Act and to consider changes to the Code of Ordinances that
may establish reasonable regulations to control the possession, sale and
dispensation of medical marihuana in order to protect the public health, safety
and welfare of the Fremont citizenry.
   6.   It is necessary to immediately forbid the issuance of permits and
licenses for uses associated with the sale or dispensation of medical marihuana
until amendments on the issue to the Code of Ordinances become effective.
(Ord. O-11-01, 3-7-11)
Sec. 11-86. Administrative action.
   A moratorium is hereby immediately imposed upon the issuance of any city
permit, license, variance or use or similar approval for the sale or
dispensation of medical marihuana within the City of Fremont, so long as this
article is in effect. During the moratorium term specified in this article, no
City official, employee, body, or agent shall issue any such permit, license,
variance or other approval. No sale or dispensation of medical marihuana shall
occur within the City pursuant to the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act (or any
other law or statute) while the moratorium imposed by this article is in
effect.
   The responsibility to develop language to be included in the Code of
Ordinances that will address where and how medical marihuana use is
administered and that will satisfy requirements imposed by the Michigan
Marihuana Act shall be referred to the Fremont Planning Commission, and the
Planning Commission shall provide the proposed changes to the Code of
Ordinances on the issue to the Fremont City Council for consideration and
disposition.
(Ord. O-11-01, 3-7-11)
Sec. 11-87. Term of this article.
   The moratorium imposed by this article shall remain in effect for six months
from the effective date, which is the date in which the Fremont City Council
passes this article, or until amendments to the City of Fremont’s Code of
Ordinances regarding the sale or dispensation of medical marihuana becomes
effective, whichever occurs first. Prior to the expiration of the six-month
moratorium, the City of Fremont may extend the moratorium for an additional six
months to allow sufficient time to complete any such amendments to the Code of
Ordinances.
(Ord. O-11-01, 3-7-11)
CHAPTER 12.
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
*
Article I. In General
§ 12-1.   Uniform Traffic Code- Adopted.
§ 12-2.   Same- Amendments.
§ 12-2.1.   Michigan Vehicle Code - Adopted.
§ 12-3.   Applicability of traffic regulations to privately owned areas.
§ 12-4.   Parking or driving entrances, etc., of service stations.
§ 12-4.1.   Expenses relating to a necessary response.
Article II. Bicycles
§§ 12-5-12-14. Reserved.
Article III. Parking.
Division 1. Generally
§ 12-15.   Parking between certain hours during designated months.
§ 12-15.1.   Vehicles left running while standing or parked within residential
areas.
§ 12-16.   Use of slugs, etc., in parking meters.
§ 12-17.   Tampering with, opening or breaking parking meters.
Division 2. Parking Violations Bureau
§ 12-18.   Created; supervision and control.
§ 12-19.   Location.
§ 12-20.   Violations-Jurisdiction; settlement generally.
§ 12-21.   Same-requests for settlement; persons denying violations; required
settlements; effect of refusal to settle.
§ 12-22.   Traffic ticket, etc., deemed an allegation; contents of ticket, etc.
§ 12-23.   Penalties for parking violations.
Division 3. Handicapped Parking Facilities
§ 12-24.   Definitions.
§ 12-25.   Required facilities.
§ 12-26.   Identification of vehicles using handicapper spaces.
§ 12-27.   Penalties.
Article IV. Motor Vehicle Exhaust and Noise
§§ 12-28-12-33. Reserved.
Article V. Snowmobiling
§
12-34.   Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (Excerpt) –
Adopted.
§
12-35.   Definitions.
§
12-36.   Operations.
§
12-37.   Speed.
§
12-38.   Lights.
§
12-39.   Proximity to dwellings.
§
12-40.   Restrictions: under 12 years old.
§
12-41.   Restrictions: 12 – 16 years old.
§
12-42.   Penalty.
§
12-43.   Effective date.
   *Cross References–As to riding on vehicles of fire department, 9-15; traffic
in parks,
14-45-
14-47; storage of motor vehicles,
5-22 et seq.; taxicabs,
Ch. 20.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL*
   *Charter reference-For charter provisions as to regulation of motor vehicles
and traffic generally, Char., 2.2 (25)
Sec. 12-1. Uniform Traffic Code-Adopted.
   a.   Code and Amendments and Revisions Adopted. The Uniform Traffic Code for
Cities, Townships and Villages as promulgated by the Director of the Michigan
Department of Sate Police pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act of
1969, 1969 PA 306, M.C.L.A. § 24.201 to § 24.328 and made effective October 30,
2002, and all future amendments and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when
they are promulgated and effective in this State are incorporated and adopted
by reference.
   b.   References in Code. References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages to a "governmental unit" shall mean the City of Fremont.
   c.   Notice to be Published. The City Clerk shall publish this Ordinance in
the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice
stating the purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages and the fact that a complete copy of the Code is available to the
public at the Office of the City Clerk for inspection.
   d.   Penalties. The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for
Cities, Townships and Villages are adopted by reference. This Ordinance shall
take effect ten (10) days after publication thereof, said effective date being
January 25, 2003. (1-06-03)
   State law reference–For state law as to authority of city to adopt Uniform
Traffic Code, M.C.L.A. §§ 9.2651 to 9.264.
Sec. 12-2. Same- Amendments.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages adopted by
section 12-1 is hereby amended in the following respects.
   (a)   The following sections shall be added:
   (1)   Sec. 5.14c. Exhibition driving. It shall be a civil infraction for any
person to engage in exhibition driving of a motor vehicle on any street, alley
or road or in any park or public place or on any private grounds without the
written permission of the owner thereof within the city. For the purposes of
this section any one or more of the following shall constitute exhibition
driving:
      a.   Drag racing, i.e. operating one (1) of two (2) or more motor
vehicles by fast acceleration thereof in an attempt to compete with the other
vehicle.
      b.   Racing, i.e., operating a motor vehicle alone or in company with
other motor vehicles in an attempt to compete with other motor vehicles over a
given course or in an allotted time limit.
      c.   Sudden rapid acceleration for exhibition other then necessary to
avoid other traffic that is not in contest with said driver.
      d.   Squealing, peeling or burning tires, i.e. racing the motor and
spinning the wheels on pavement thereby causing a noise from the tires spinning
so.
      e.   Fish tailing, i.e. spinning the tires causing the back of the car to
sway from side to side.
      f.   Engaging in game, i.e. using a motor vehicle in a dangerous manner
in the course of any other game or contest.
      g.   Show-off driving, i.e. any other dangerous intentional operation of
a motor vehicle which would tend to attract the attention of the public,
whether there were people present or not and whether or not there was other
traffic, either pedestrian or motor, or any other kind of traffic present.
   (2)   Sec. 6.19a. No person shall operate any bicycle upon any of the
sidewalks situated upon that portion of Main Street between Merchant and
Mechanic Avenues and upon that portion of Division Avenue between Dayton and
Sheridan Street.
   (3)   Sec. 3.4. Use of coaster, roller skates, skateboards and similar
devices restricted. No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of
any coasters, toy vehicle, skateboard or similar device, shall go upon any
roadway except while crossing a street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such
person shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. No
person shall operate or ride upon roller skates, coasters, toy vehicles,
skateboards or similar devices upon any of the sidewalks of the city situated
upon that portion of Main Street between Merchant and Mechanic Avenues and upon
that portion of Division Avenue between Dayton and Sheridan Street.
   (4)   Sec. 2.36d. Public parking lots. The traffic engineer is hereby
authorized, subject to the approval of the city council, to determine the time
limits for the parking of vehicles in parking lots owned or operated by the
city, and he shall place and maintain whatever traffic control devices are
necessary to give notice of those determinations in said parking lot. Any
person who violates the direction of any traffic control devices established
hereunder is guilty of a civil infraction.
(2-9-42, § 7; 11-25-57, §§ 38, 82; 6-16-69, § 2; 3-20-78; 1-15-79; 8-6-79; 4-
21-80; 9-7-82; 8-1-83; Ord. of 11-6-89; Ord. No. 0-92-01, §§ 1-13, 3-2-92)
   State Law reference-For state law as to motor vehicles generally, M.C.L.A.
§§ 257.1 et seq.
Sec. 12-2.1. Michigan Vehicle Code - Adopted.
   The Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference. (Ord. No. –, - - )
Sec. 12.3. Applicability of traffic regulations to privately owned areas.
   The provisions of this chapter relating to traffic shall be applicable to
privately owned lots, streets, alleys and other similar places open to and used
by the public.
Sec. 12-4. Parking or driving on entrances, etc., of service stations.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle, either temporarily or otherwise,
upon any of the approaches and entrances and driveways situated upon or
entering into any gasoline service or filling station in the corporation limits
of the city; and no person shall drive any motor vehicle upon any of such
approaches and driveways at any time while such gasoline service or filling
stations are closed and not open for business.
(6-5-50)
Sec. 12-4.1. Expenses relating to a necessary response.
   (a)   Purpose. The City of Fremont finds that a significant number of
traffic arrests and traffic accidents in the city involve drivers who were
operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor and/
or controlled substances. In addition, the City of Fremont finds that in
traffic the influence of intoxicating liquor and/or controlled substance causes
a greater likelihood of personal injury and property damage. As a result of
these determinations, a greater operational and financial burden is placed upon
the city police, public services (which shall be deemed to include legal
services), fire fighting and rescue services by persons who are operating a
motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor and/or a
controlled substance.
   (b)   Definitions.
   (1)   Necessary response shall mean:
   a.   The providing, sending and/or utilizing of police, public service, fire
fighting, ambulance, and rescue services by the city to an incident resulting
in an accident involving a motor vehicle where one (1) or more of the drivers
were operating the motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor and/or controlled substance; or
   b.   An incident resulting in traffic stop and arrest by a police officer
when the driver was operating the motor vehicle while under the influence, of
an intoxicating liquor or controlled substance.
   (2)   Expense of a necessary response means the direct and reasonable costs
incurred by the City of Fremont in making an appropriate response to the
incident, including, but not limited to, the costs of providing police, public
service, freighting, ambulance and rescue services at the scene of the
incident. These costs further include the salaries or wages of the personnel
responding to the incident and the costs connected with the administration and
provision of tests to determine whether a person operating a motor vehicle
involved in an incident resulting in a necessary response, was operating the
motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled
substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance,
and to the expenses of any subsequent legal proceedings to enforce or collect
under this section, including but not limited to, attorney fees and court
costs.
   (c)   Liability for expense of a necessary response. Any person whose
operation of a motor vehicle results in a necessary response, as defined
herein, is liable for the expense of a necessary response, as defined herein,
to the City of Fremont.
   (d)   Presumptions. For purposes of this section, a person is under the
influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled substance, or the combined
influence of an alcoholic [beverage] or a controlled substance, when due to
consumption of an intoxication liquor, a controlled substance, or a combination
of an intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance, the person has visibly
impaired his or her ability to operate the vehicle. Further, it shall be
presumed that a person was operating a motor vehicle under the influence of
intoxicating liquor if a chemical analysis of his or her blood, urine or breath
indicates at the time alleged that the amount of alcohol in his or her blood
was in excess of 0.07%.
   (e)   Charge against person liable. The expense of a necessary response
shall be charged against the person liable for expenses under this section. The
charge constitutes a debt of that person and is collectible by the City of
Fremont in the same manner as an obligation under a contract, expressed or
implied, except that liability for the expenses provided for in this section
shall not be insurable and no insurance policy shall provide or pay for the
expenses.
   (f)   Cost recovery schedule. The city council shall, by resolutions, adopt
a schedule of the costs included within the expense of a necessary response.
This schedule shall be available to the public from either the city clerk or
the police department.
   (g)   Chief of police to submit bill. The chief of police, or his or her
designate, shall, within forty-five (45) days of receiving itemized costs and
expenses incurred for a necessary response, submit a bill for those costs and
expenses by first class mail or personal service to the person liable for the
costs and expenses and enumerated under this section. Said bill shall require
full payment in thirty (30) days from date of service or date of mailing.
   (h)   Failure to pay; procedure to recover costs. Any failure by the person
described in this section as liable for the cost and expense of a necessary
response, to pay the bill within thirty (30) days of service or mailing same,
shall render such matter in default. The City of Fremont may commence civil
suit to recover the expenses and any costs allowed by law. (Ord. No. 0-91-07,
10-21-91)
ARTICLE II. BICYCLES
Secs. 12-5-12-14. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. PARKING*
   *Charter references - For charter provisions as to parking generally, Char.,
§ 2.2(25); as to public parking facilities, Char., § 2.2(8).
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 12-15. Parking between certain hours during designated months.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle upon any of the public streets and
alleys within the corporate limits of the city between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. at any time during the months commencing December 1 and ending on
the next ensuing April. (1-20-48, § 3; Ord. No. O-23-08, 12-4-23)
Sec. 12-15.1. Vehicles left running while standing or parked within residential
areas.
   No person shall leave any motor vehicle standing or parked in any
residential area where permanent residences exist, while the motor is running
or any other motors of attached or associated equipment are running, for a
period of more than thirty (30) minutes. (3-20-78; Ord. No. 91-02, 8-19-91)
Sec. 12-16. Use of slugs, etc., in parking meters.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited in a
parking meter any slug, device or metallic substitute for a coin of the United
States. (12-5-57, § 15)
Sec. 12-17. Tampering with, opening or breaking parking meters.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, open or willfully break
or destroy any parking meter.
(12-5-57, § 16)
DIVISION 2. PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU†
   †State law reference - For state law as to authority of city to establish
and operating a parking violations bureau, M.C.L.A. § 600.8395.
   State law references - For state law as to authority of city to regulate
parking of vehicles, M.C.L.A. § 257.606; as to stopping, standing and parking
generally, M.C.L.A. §§ 257.672 - 257.675b.
Sec. 12-18. Created; supervision and control.
   Pursuant to section 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, State of Michigan as
added by Public Act 1954 of 1968, a parking violations bureau for the purpose
of handling alleged parking violations within the city is hereby established.
   The parking violations bureau shall be under the supervision and control of
the city manager.
(11-18-68, § 1)
Sec. 12-19. Location.
   The city manager shall, subject to the approval of the city council,
establish a convenient location for the parking violations bureau, appoint
qualified city employees to administer the bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation thereof. (11-18-68, § 2)
Sec. 12-20. Violations-Jurisdiction; settlement generally.
   No violation not scheduled in section 12-23 shall be disposed of by the
parking violations bureau. The fact that a particular violation is scheduled
shall not entitle the alleged violator to disposition of the violation at the
bureau and in any case the person in charge of such bureau may refuse to
dispose of such violation in which case any person having knowledge of the
facts may make a sworn complaint before any court having jurisdiction of the
offense as provided by law.
(11-18-68, § 3)
Sec. 12-21. Same-Requests for settlement; persons denying violations; required
settlements; effect of refusal to settle.
   No violation may be settled at the parking violations bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the bureau determine or attempt t
determine the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
parking violations bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have any such
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
parking violations bureau shall not prejudice him or in any way diminish the
rights, privileges and protection accorded to him by law. (11-18-68, § 4)
Sec. 12-22. Traffic ticket, etc., deemed an allegation; contents of ticket,
etc.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police officer
of the city shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation.
   Such traffic ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time
in which the person to whom the same was issued must respond before the parking
violations bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the bureau, the amount
of the penalty scheduled for the offense for which the ticket was issued and
advise that a warrant for the arrest of the person to whom the ticket was
issued will be sought if such person fails to respond within the time limited.
(11-18-68, § 5)
Sec. 12-23. Penalties for parking violations.
   (a)   All parking violations pursuant to Article III of Chapter 12 of the
Fremont City Code shall be civil infractions.
   (b)   All penalties for parking violations and handicapped parking
violations pursuant to § 12-27 shall be established by the City Council by way
of resolution from time to time. The resolution shall be filed with the City
Clerk and made available to the public upon requests.
   (c)   Any fine for a parking violation not paid in person, or sent by mail
postmarked, on or before the expiration of ten (10) days from the date of
issuance of a parking ticket shall be doubled.
   (d)   All fines for parking violations shall be paid in person or by mail at
the Fremont City Offices at 101 East Main Street, Fremont, Michigan 49412. (11-
18-68, § 6, 3-19-79; Ord. No. O-93-04, 12-20-93; Ord. No. O-04-02, 4-19-04)
DIVISION 3. HANDICAPPER PARKING FACILITIES
Sec. 12-24. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this division, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   Handicapper. A person who, for the purposes of this division, has a physical
characteristic categorized as a handicap, which limits ambulation or
necessitates the use of a wheelchair for mobility, or a person who is blind.
   Parking area. An area used by the public as a means of access to and egress
from, and for the free parking of motor vehicles by patrons of, a shopping
center.
   Shopping center. A minimum area of three (3) acres of land on which there is
located one or more stores or business establishments, and where there is
provided a parking area. (5-18-81, § 1)
Sec. 12-25. Required facilities.
   A shopping center shall provide parking facilities in accordance with the
following table, which facilities shall be identified by signs as being
reserved for handicappers. Signs shall be located approximately six (6) feet
above grade. Each reserved parking space shall be not less than twelve (12)
feet wide. Where a curb exists between a parking lot surface and sidewalk
surface, an inclined approach or a curb cut with a gradient of not more than
one (1) foot to twelve (12) feet and a width of not less than four (4) feet
shall be provided for wheelchair access. Parking spaces for handicappers shall
be located as close as possible to walkways and entrances. Signs shall be
provided when necessary, indicating the direction of travel to an accessible
entrance:
Total Parking in Lot   Required Number of
   Accessible Spaces
Up to 25    1
25 to 50   2
51 to 75   3
56 to 100   4
More than 100   1 for each
   additional 50 spaces
   Handicapper parking spaces and curb cuts shall be painted "traffic yellow."
(5-18-81, § 2.)
Sec. 12-26. Identification of vehicles using handicapper spaces.
   Every vehicle parking in parking spaces designated for handicappers shall be
equipped with special plates or serially numbered registration displayed on the
handicapper's vehicle. (5-18-81, § 3.)
Sec. 12-27. Penalties.
   The penalty for failure to provide handicapper spaces as described in this
division shall be a civil infraction for each day the violation continues.
   The penalty for unauthorized use of a handicapper parking space shall be a
civil infraction and/or towing of the vehicle and/or impoundment of the vehicle
at the owner's expense and liability. (5-18-81, § 4.)
ARTICLE IV. MOTOR VEHICLE EXHAUST AND NOISE.
Secs. 12-28-12-33. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. SNOWMOBILING.
Sec. 12-34. Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (Excerpt) –
Adopted.
   The Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (excerpt), Act No.
451 of MI of 1994, Part 821, "Snowmobiles," (MCL 324.82101 to 324.82160) is
adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein, except as hereinafter may be
amended or deleted. References in Part 821 of the Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act to "governmental unit" shall mean the City of
Fremont. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-22-07)
Sec. 12-35. Definitions.
   For purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
   Snowmobile. Any motor-driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow
or ice of a type using sled-type runners or skis, an endless belt tread or any
combination of these or other similar means of contact with the surface upon
which it is operated; but is not a vehicle that must be registered under Act
No. 300 of the Public Acts of MI of 1949 (MCL 257.1 et seq., MSA 9.1801 et
seq.), as amended.
   Roadway or Road Right-of-Way (ROW). A strip of land occupied or intended to
be occupied by a street or public way vehicular movement and which typically
incorporates such features as curbs, lawn strips, street trees, sidewalks,
walkways, utility lines, lighting, signage and drainage facilities. It shall
include the entire width of a publicly- or privately-owned, controlled and
maintained property that provides access to abutting properties, parcels or
lots. If curbed, the roadway or ROW shall include both the paved portion of the
street as well as the portion between the curb and an adjoining property line.
The terms roadway or road right-of-way shall be synonymous with the terms
street, avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard, highway or other
thoroughfare that affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
(Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-22-07)
Sec. 12-36. Operations.
    It shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile within the City except upon
premises owned or under the control of the snowmobile operator or upon the
premises of another with that person's express permission, with the following
exceptions:
   (a)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to permit the operation of a
lawfully registered snowmobile on a roadway when an emergency occurs and
conventional motor vehicles cannot be used for transportation due to snow, ice
or other extreme highway conditions.
   (b)   That section, if any, of the snow-covered unpaved road right-of-way
approved periodically by Resolution of the City Council for access to gas
stations and/or restaurants, with signage design and placement approved in
advance by the Chief of Police.
   (c)   A snowmobile may be operated on the paved portion of a roadway only
when necessary to cross the roadway or to cross a bridge, culvert or other
obstruction. The snowmobile shall be brought to a complete stop before entering
onto the roadway, and the operator shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle or
pedestrian approaching on the roadway. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-22-07)
Sec. 12-37. Speed.
   A person shall not operate a snowmobile at a rate of speed greater than is
reasonable, safe and proper, having due regard for conditions then existing and
same shall in no event be greater than the posted speed limit, or twenty-five
(25) miles-per-hour (mph), whichever is less, if driven on a public roadway or
property under circumstances permitted by this Article. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-
22-07)
Sec. 12-38. Lights.
   Snowmobiles must display an operational lighted white headlight and red
taillight at all times during operation. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-22-07)
Sec. 12-39. Proximity to Dwellings.
   A person shall not operate a snowmobile within one hundred (100) feet of a
dwelling between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. at a speed greater than the minimum
required to maintain forward movement. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-22-07)
Sec. 12-40. Restrictions: Under 12 years old.
   A parent or guardian shall not permit his/her child who is less than twelve
(12) years of age to operate a snowmobile without the direct supervision of a
person authorized by the parent or guardian who is at least twenty-one (21)
years of age, except on land owned or controlled by the parent or guardian, nor
shall a person under twelve (12) years of age cross a street, highway or
roadway while operating a snowmobile. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-22-07)
Sec. 12-41. Restrictions: 12 – 16 years old.
   A person who is at least twelve (12) years old but less than seventeen (17)
years of age may not operate a snowmobile unless:
   (a)   The person is under the direct supervision of a person authorized by
the parent or guardian who is twenty-one (21) years or older; and
   (b)   The person has in his/her immediate possession a valid snowmobile
safety certificate; and
   (c)   The person is on land owned or under the control of his/her parent or
guardian. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-22-07)
Sec. 12-42. Penalty.
   Violation of this Article shall be a Civil Infraction punishable pursuant to
Chapter 7 of the Fremont City Code of Ordinances. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-22-07)
Sec. 12-43. Effective Date.
   This Article shall take effect following its adoption and publication
pursuant to the procedures outlined in Section 9 of Michigan Public Act 226 of
2003 (MCL 125.139) and those of the Fremont City Charter. (Ord. No. O-07-01, 1-
22-07)
CHAPTER 13.
OFFENSES – MISCELLANEOUS
*
Article I: Alcoholic beverages, curfew, destruction of property, etc.
§ 13-1.   Alcoholic beverages – Purchase, possession, transportation, etc., by
person under twenty-one.
§ 13-1.1.   Same – Purchase, possession, transportation, etc. by persons under
twenty-one; outside motor vehicle.
§ 13-1.2.   Same – Consumption of alcoholic liquor on a highway, public place,
or area generally accessible to motor vehicles, including area designated for
parking of vehicles; violation punishable as a misdemeanor.
§ 13-2.   Same – Furnishing to minors.
§ 13-3.   Same – Misrepresentation of age.
§ 13-4.   Curfew – Minors under twelve.
§ 13-5.   Same – Minors under sixteen.
§ 13-6.   Same – Aiding, etc., violation of curfew by person over sixteen.
§ 13-7.   Destruction, etc., of property – Signs, markers, barricades, etc., of
city.
§ 13-8.   Same – Tools, machinery, personal property, etc., of city.
§ 13-9.   Same – Trees, buildings, etc., of city.
§ 13-10.   Disorderly persons – Acts and practices constituting.
§ 13-11.   Distribution of handbills, circulars, etc.
§ 13-12.   Electrical interference – Operation of devices, etc., causing
interference.
§ 13-13.   Same – Application of section 13-12 to areas in interstate commerce
or regulated by Congress.
§ 13-14.   Firearms – Discharge.
§ 13-15.   Schools – Trespass generally.
§ 13-16.   Same – Presence of persons within school during normal school hours.
§ 13-17.   Same – Presence of persons on school grounds generally.
§ 13-18.   Sales by peddlers, etc. – Generally.
§ 13-19.   Same – Dairy and farm products.
§ 13-20.   Same – Nonprofit organizations.
§ 13-21.   Regulation of the use of skateboards, roller skates, roller blades
or any similar device.
§ 13-22.   Regulation of the use of motor vehicles on recreational trailways.
Article II. Smoking and Vaping Prohibited
§
13-23.   Definitions.
§
13-24.   Smoking prohibited locations.
§
13-25.   Signs.
§
13-26.   Violations and penalties.
   *Charter reference – For charter provisions as to prevention of crime,
Char., 2.1
ARTICLE I: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, CURFEW, DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY, ETC.
Sec. 13-1. Alcoholic beverages – Purchase, possession, transportation, etc., by
person under twenty-one.
   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall purchase or knowingly
possess, transport or have under his control in any motor vehicle any alcoholic
liquor unless such person is employed by a licensee under state statute and is
possessing, transporting or having such alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle
under his control during regular working hours and in the course or his
employment.
(6-17-68, 1; 8-6-79)
   State law reference – For similar state law, M.C.L.A. § 257.624b.
   Cross reference – Intoxicating beverages in parks, 14-23.
Sec. 13-1.1. Same – Purchase, possession, transportation, etc., by person under
twenty-one; outside motor vehicle.
   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall purchase alcoholic
liquor, consume alcoholic liquor in a licensed premises, or possess alcoholic
liquor, except where the person is employed by a licensee under state statute,
a common carrier designated by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission, the
Liquor Control Commission, or an agent of the Liquor Control Commission and is
transporting or having the alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle under the
person's control during regular working hours and in the course of the person's
employment. A person less than twenty-one (21) years of age who violates this
section is liable for the civil fines as determined by resolution of the city
council and shall not be subject to the penalties specified in Section 1-16 of
the Fremont City Code:
   (a)   For the first violation a fine of not more than twenty-five dollars
($25.00).
   (b)   For the second violation a fine of not more than fifty dollars
($50.00).
   (c)   For the third or subsequent violation a fine of not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. No. O-91-06, 10-21-91)
Sec. 13-1.2. Same – Consumption of alcoholic liquor on a highway, public place,
or area generally accessible to motor vehicles, including area designated for
parking of vehicles; violation punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (a)   A person shall not consume alcoholic liquor or possess any open
container of alcoholic liquor upon a highway, street, alley, sidewalk, parking
area, parking lot or any public or private property which is open to the
general public and which is not licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises, or within the passenger compartment of a moving
vehicle upon a highway or in any place open to the general public or generally
accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of
vehicles in the City of Fremont. The term "parking area" shall include any area
wherein motor vehicles are parked by the public in conjunction with any private
business, enterprise, commercial establishment, office building, or apartment
building.
   (b)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a term of imprisonment of not more than ninety (90) days and a
fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), or both.
(Ord. No. O-92-01, 6, 3-2-92)
Sec. 13-2. Same – Furnishing to minors.
   No person shall willfully give or furnish any alcoholic beverage to a person
twenty-one (21) years of age, except upon authority of and pursuant to a
prescription of a duly licensed physician. (6-17-68, 2; 8-6-79)
   State law reference – For similar state law, M.C.L.A. § 750.141a.
Sec. 13-3. Same – Misrepresentation of age.
   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall falsely represent
himself to be twenty-one (21) years of age or over for the purpose of
purchasing or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage; no person shall
furnish any documentary evidence falsely representing himself to be twenty-one
(21) years of age to be used for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic
beverage.
(6-17-69, 3; 8-6-79)
Sec. 13-4. Curfew – Minors under twelve.
   No minor under the age of twelve (12) years shall loiter, idle, wander,
stroll, play or congregate in or on any public street, highway, alley,
playground, beach, other public grounds or public buildings, vacant lots or
other unsupervised places in the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., unless the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian or some adult
delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the child.
(3-12-62, § 1)
   State law references – For similar state law, M.C.L.A. § 722.751; as to
powers of city to regulate curfews of minors, M.C.L.A. § 722.754.
Sec. 13-5. Same – Minors under sixteen.
   No minor under the age of sixteen (16) years shall loiter, idle, wander,
stroll, play or congregate in or on any public street, highway, alley, park,
playground, beach, other public grounds or public buildings, vacant lots or
other unsupervised places in the city between the hours of 12:00 midnight and
6:00 a.m., except where the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian or
some adult over the age of eighteen (18) years delegated by the parent or
guardian to accompany the minor child or where the minor is upon an errand or
other legitimate business directed by his parent or guardian.
(3-12-62, § 2)
   State law reference – For similar state law, M.C.L.A. § 722.752.
Sec. 13-6. Same – Aiding, etc., violation of curfew by person over sixteen.
   Any person of the age of sixteen (16) years or over assisting, aiding,
abetting, allowing, permitting or encouraging any minor under the age of
sixteen (16) years to violate the provisions of sections 13-4 and 13-5 is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   State law reference – For similar state law, M.C.L.A. § 722.753.
Sec. 13-7. Destruction, etc., of property – Signs, markers, barricades, etc.,
of city.
   No person shall damage, destroy, carry away, remove, deface or in any manner
whatsoever molest or interfere with, unless authorized so to do by the city
council, any of the signs, markers, lanterns, torches, flares or barricades at
any time erected, placed, kept or maintained by or under the authority of the
city or within its jurisdiction or control upon any of the streets, alleys,
sidewalks, highways, parks or other places, whether public or private, within
the corporate limits of the city.
(2-8-37, § 1)
   Cross references – As to destruction of property in parks, 14-33; as to
destruction, injury, etc., of trees and shrubs in parks, 14-37.
Sec. 13-8. Same – Tools, machinery, personal property, etc., of city.
   No person shall damage, destroy, carry away, remove, deface or in any manner
whatsoever molest or interfere with, unless authorized so to do by the city
council any tools, implement, trucks, machinery, equipment or other personal
property of any name or nature of the city or in its possession or under its
jurisdiction or control wherever situated within or without the corporate
limits of the city.
(2-8-37, § 2)
   Cross references – As to opening mains valves or hydrants of water system,
21-7; as to destruction of structures or equipment of sewage system, 21-45.
Sec. 13-9. Same – Trees, buildings, etc., of city.
   No person shall damage, destroy, carry away, remove, deface or in any manner
whatsoever molest or interfere with unless authorized so to do by the city
council any of the trees, shrubs, public buildings, or other property of any
name or nature owned by the city or in its possession or within its
jurisdiction or control or situated upon any public or private property over
which the city has jurisdiction or control.
(2-8-37, § 3)
Sec. 13-10. Disorderly persons – Acts and practices constituting.
   Definitions: For purposes of this ordinance "public place" and/or "place
open to the public" shall include but not be limited to the following:
   Any place to which the general public has access for business, entertainment
or other lawful purposes, but does not necessarily mean a place devoted solely
to the use of the public, and includes any shopping center, shopping mall,
store, shop, restaurant, tavern or bar, parking lot, or other place of
business, public park or other public place. Any person shall be deemed a
disorderly person who shall, or who shall aid and abet another to commit one
(1) or more of the following acts:
   (a)   Assembling for illegal purposes. Collect or stand in crowds or
arrange, encourage or abet the collection or persons in crowds for illegal or
mischievous purposes in any public place or place open to the public.
   (b)   Loitering. Loiter on any street or sidewalk or in any park or other
public place open to the public. The following acts shall be deemed to
constitute loitering within the meaning of this subsection:
      (1)   Congregate in such a fashion as to obstruct the free and
uninterrupted passage of the public;
      (2)   Obstruct vehicular traffic;
      (3)   Sit on the sidewalk;
      (4)   Lie on the sidewalk;
      (5)   Sit on the steps leading to any building open to the public or to
which the public is invited;
   (c)   Unnecessary crowding. Jostle or roughly crowd unnecessarily in any
public place or place open to the public.
   (d)   Public fight or disturbance. Engage in any disturbance, fight or
quarrel in any public place or place open to the public.
   (e)   Assault and battery. Commit an assault or an assault and battery on
any person.
   (f)   Fireworks. Fire, discharge, display or possess any fireworks, except
of the type and under the conditions permitted by Chapter 39 of the Penal Code
of the State of Michigan, as amended.
   (g)   Peeping Tom. Engage in peeping in the windows of any inhabited place.
   (h)   Begging. Beg in any public place or any place open to the public.
   (i)   Use of obscene language in public place or place open to the public.
Utter vile, profane or obscene language in any public place or place open to
the public.
   (j)   Indecent, immoral or obscene conduct. Engage in any indecent, immoral
or obscene conduct.
   (k)   Indecent exposure. Make any immoral exhibition or indecent exposure of
his person.
   (l)   Prostitution, gambling, and illegal or immoral business or occupation.
Engage in prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating liquor or
any other illegal or immoral business or occupation.
   (m)   Attend, operate, or occupy places of prostitution, gambling or other
illegal or immoral business or occupation. Knowingly attend, frequent, operate
or be an occupant or inmate of any place where prostitution, gambling, the
illegal sale of intoxicating liquor or where any other illegal or immoral
business or occupation is permitted or conducted.
   (n)   Solicitation for illegal or immoral act. Solicit or accost any person
for the purposes of inducing the commission of any illegal or immoral act.
   (o)   Transportation of person to prostitution or gambling house. Knowingly
transport any person to a place where prostitution or gambling is practiced,
encouraged or allowed for the purpose of enabling such person to engage in
gambling or in any illegal or immoral act.
   (p)   Maintenance of gaming room, table, or policy or pool tickets. Keep or
maintain a gaming room, gaming table or any policy or pool tickets used for
gaming; or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming table or any policy or pool
tickets to be kept, maintained, played or sold on any premises occupied or
controlled by him, provided, same is without property licensure from
appropriate governmental authorities.
   (q)   Disturbing the peace. No person shall disturb the public peace and
quiet by loud, boisterous or vulgar conduct or by making such excessive,
unnecessary, or unusually loud noise, whether on public or private property,
nor allow others under his control or direction to make such noise, which
disturbs the peace, good order, health and safety of other persons, a
neighborhood or the community in general.
   (r)   Disorderly houses. Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled
by him to be a resort of noisy, boisterous and disorderly persons.
   (s)    Interfere with peace officer in discharge of duty. Obstruct, resist,
hinder or oppose any member of the police force or any peace officer in the
discharge of his duties as such.
      (1)   No person shall fail to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police
officer, when known to be such an official, where one (1) or more persons are
committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, and individual
or public health, good order, safety or property is imminently threatened.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly give false information to any police
officer, official, employee, or representative of the city on any matter
pertaining to or affected by his/her official duties. No person shall conceal
his identity, or falsely identify him/herself in response to any inquiry by a
police officer, official, employee or representative of the city in connection
with the performance of his/her official duties.
   (t)   Prowling at night. Prowl about any alley or the private premises of
any person in the nighttime without authority or the permission of the owner of
such premises.
   (u)   Throwing of objects wrongfully. Throw or propel any snowball, missile
or object from any moving automobile, or wrongfully throw or propel any
snowball, missile or object toward any person or automobile.
   (v)   Throwing object at person or automobile. Wrongfully throw or propel
any snowball, missile or object toward any person or automobile.
   (w)   Destruction of property of another. Willfully destroy, remove, damage,
alter or in any manner deface any property not his own or any public school
building or any public building, bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box, street light,
street sign, traffic control device, railroad sign or signal, parking meter or
shade tree belonging to the city or located in the public places of the city or
mark or post handbills on or in any manner mar the walls of any public
building, fence, tree or pole within the city or destroy, take or meddle with
any property belonging to the city or remove the same from the building or
place where it may be kept, placed or stored without proper authority.
   (x)   False alarms. Summon as a joke or prank or otherwise without any good
reason therefor, by telephone or otherwise the police or the fire department or
any public or private ambulance to go to an address where the service called
for is not needed.
   (y)   Entry to watch specified activities. Go upon the premises of another
or upon the right-of-way of any railroad company or climb, stand in or upon any
tree or climb over, crawl under, break or cut through any fence for the purpose
of witnessing or looking at any football game, baseball game, or other athletic
sports or games whatsoever or any fair, show or other entertainment whatsoever
without the consent and permission of the owner or occupant of such lands,
right-of-way or the owner of any such tree or fence.
   (z)   Taking bicycle. Willfully and without authority take possession of and
ride or take away any bicycle without intent to steal.
   (aa)   Use of telephone to harass; vulgar, etc., language over telephone.
Telephone any person repeatedly or cause the same to be done for the primary
purpose of harassing such other person or his family or to use any threatening,
vulgar, indecent, obscene or immoral language over any telephone.
   (bb)   Dangerous lights, etc., on cars, etc. Use any light or flare on any
automobile or otherwise, in such manner as to cause annoyance to others or be
likely to endanger life or property or to interfere with traffic.
   (cc)   Disturbance of worship and other assemblages. Disrupt or aid in
disrupting in any manner any service or worship or any other assemblage for
lawful purposes.
(Ord. No. O-91-08, 10-21-91)
   Editor's note – Ord. No. O-91-08, adopted Oct. 21, 1991, repealed former 13-
10, relative to disorderly acts and conduct, and enacted a new 13-10 to read as
herein set out. Former 13-10 derived from Ords. of 1-20-69; 9-20-71; 1-20-75;
and 5-15-78.
   Cross reference – As to loitering, boisterous conduct, etc., in parks 14-24.
   State law references – For state law as to disorderly persons, M.C.L.A. §§
750.167, 750.168; as to crimes and offenses generally, M.C.L.A. Tit. 750.
Sec. 13-11. Distribution of handbills, circulars, etc.
   Unless a permit is first obtained from the city council, no person shall
peddle or distribute or cause to be peddled or distributed any handbills,
circulars, cards, pamphlets or other advertising matter in the city by leaving,
depositing or placing such materials or causing such materials to be left,
deposited or placed in, upon or at any private residence or premises or any
street, avenue, alley, public park or place in the city or in or upon any
vehicle while parked upon any street, avenue, alley, public park or place in
the city; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the
distribution of newspapers, periodicals or other printed matter to regular
subscribers thereof or the transmission of any such matter through the United
States mail.
(6-12-39, 1; 1-19-76, § 1)
   Cross reference – As to the posting of signs, bulletins or notices in parks,
14-33.
Sec. 13-12. Electrical interference – Operation of devices, etc., causing
interference.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly or wantonly to operate or
cause to be operated any machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any kind
whatsoever within the corporate limits of the city, the operation of which
shall cause reasonably preventable electrical interference with radio or
television reception within the city; provided, however, that X-Ray pictures,
examinations or treatments and other medical tests, etc., involving such
devices may be made any time if the machines or apparatus used therefor are
properly equipped to avoid all unnecessary or reasonably preventable
interference with radio or television reception and are not negligently
operated.
(8-11-47, 1; 2-22-54, § 1)
Sec. 13-13. Same – Application of section 13-12 to areas in interstate commerce
or regulated by Congress.
   Section 13-12 shall not be held or construed to embrace or cover the
regulation of any transmitting, broadcasting or receiving instrument, apparatus
or device used or useful in interstate commerce or the operation of which
instrument, apparatus or device is licensed or authorized by or under the
provisions of any act of the Congress of the United States.
(8-11-47, § 2)
Sec. 13-14. Firearms – Discharge.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or otherwise discharge any
firearm within the city, unless permission to do so is first obtained from the
chief of police. For the purposes of this section the word "firearm" shall mean
any weapon or device from which is propelled any missile, projectile, bullet,
shot, BB or other matter by means of explosives, compressed air or gas or by
means of springs, levers or other mechanical devices.
   Cross reference – As to discharge of firearms in parks, 14-13.
Sec. 13-15. Schools – Trespass generally.
   No person shall commit any trespass upon any land or buildings owned,
occupied or otherwise used by a school within the city; and any person not
having legitimate business in and around the schools located in the city shall
be deemed to be trespassing during the school hours or during school
activities.
(5-1-72, § 1)
Sec. 13-16. Same – Presence of persons within school during normal school
hours.
   No person other than a student or employee of any school located in the city
or parent or guardian of any student enrolled therein shall remain within any
school during normal school hours without securing the written permission of
the principle or person in charge of such school. The term "student" as used
herein is defined as any person of school age and properly enrolled in the
school system of the city.
(5-1-72, § 2)
Sec. 13-17. Same – Presence of persons on school grounds generally.
   No person other than a student or employee of any school located in the city
or parent or guardian of any student enrolled therein shall remain on any lands
owned, occupied or used by any school within the city without securing written
permission of the principal or person in charge of such school. The term
"student" as used herein is defined as any person of school age and enrolled in
the school system of the city.
(5-1-72, § 3)
Sec. 13-18. Sales by peddlers, etc. - Generally.
   The practices of going in or upon private residences in the city by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants or transient vendors or
merchandise not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or the
occupant of such private residences for the purpose of soliciting orders for
the sale of goods, wares and merchandise or disposing of or peddling or hawking
the sale is declared to be a misdemeanor.
(9-14-64, § 1)
   Charter reference – For charter provisions as to authority of city to
prohibit peddlers, Char., § 2.2(11).
   Cross reference – As to vending and peddling in parks, 14-39.
Sec. 13-19. Same – Dairy and farm products.
   Section 13-18 shall not apply to the sale or soliciting of orders for the
sale of milk, dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs and other farm and
garden produce so far as the sale of the commodities named herein is now
authorized by law.
(9-14-64, § 3)
Sec. 13-20. Same – Nonprofit organizations.
   Section 13-18 shall not apply to sales by nonprofit organizations.
Sec. 13-21. Regulation of the use of skateboards, roller skates, roller blades
or any similar device.
   (a)   Persons using or operating skateboards, roller skates, roller blades
or any similar devices can be a threat to their own safety as well as the
safety of the public at large and the pedestrian and vehicular density is
significant in the downtown area, on the public walkways and within the City of
Fremont so as to necessitate the regulation thereof.
   (b)   The use of any skateboard, roller skates, roller blades or any similar
device is prohibited on any sidewalk, public parking area, roadway, street,
alley, or other area open to the general public in the Central Business
District.
   (c)   The Central Business District is defined as that area bordered on the
West by Weaver Avenue, on the North by Dayton Street, on the East by Darling
Avenue and on the South by Sheridan Street. This includes Veterans Memorial
Park. The said border streets of the Central Business District shall be deemed
to include the following:
      (1)   Weaver Street – including the East sidewalk, but excluding the West
sidewalk;
      (2)   Dayton Street – including the South sidewalk, but excluding the
North sidewalk;
      (3)   Sheridan Street – including the North sidewalk, but excluding the
South sidewalk;
      (4)   Darling Street – including the West sidewalk, but excluding the
East sidewalk.
   (d)   This section does not apply to wheelchairs or other similar devices
which are being used by handicapped persons.
   (e)   No person shall use any skateboard, roller skates, roller blades or
similar device on any bench, table, planter, wall or other fixture located in
or along any public roadway, street, alley, sidewalk, parking lot or other area
open to the general public within the city limits of the City of Fremont.
   (f)   No person shall use any vehicle, motorcycle or bicycle to tow another
person on any skateboard, roller blades, roller skates or other similar device
within the city limits of the City of Fremont.
   (g)   No person shall use a skateboard, roller blades, roller skates or any
other similar device in any public place in a careless or negligent manner
which causes or reasonably could cause any injury to any person or any damage
to property owned by any other person, including, without limitation, any
public property, and further, such person shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian and shall not approach, overtake or pass such pedestrian in a
reckless or careless manner, and shall not pass such pedestrian except in
single file if such person is roller skating or riding a skateboard or other
similar device with other such skaters or riders.
   (h)   The City Council may in its discretion, authorize the City Manager to
have signs placed on any city-owned property prohibiting the use of
skateboards, roller blades, roller skates or any other similar device on any
city-owned property which is so posted, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to use same on property so posted.
   (i)   A person that violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $50.00 for the first offense,
$100.00 for the second offense, and $200.00 for the third offense and
thereafter. If any civil fine is imposed, the person assessed shall also
assessed and taxed as costs the expenses, direct and indirect of the
prosecution of such offense, to a maximum of $250.00 per offense, and, in
addition thereto, the cost of replacing, restoring or repairing damage to
property. Further, the offending device may be impounded for a period not to
exceed 60 days. This shall be in addition to or in lieu of the civil infraction
penalty indicated above.
Sec. 13-22. Regulation of the use of motor vehicles on recreational trailways.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ensure the safe use and
quiet enjoyment of the City's recreational trails by pedestrians, bicyclists
and other lawfully permitted users.
   (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      Recreational trailway means a trail, path or corridor that is (1) either
inside or outside of a street right-of-way, (2) owned or under the control of
the City, and (3) designated by the City for use by the public for recreational
purposes including but not limited to bicycling, walking, jogging and similar
non-motorized uses.
      Motor vehicle means a land conveyance impelled by mechanical power,
including but not limited to automobiles, trucks, buses, tractors, motorcycles,
mopeds, all-terrain vehicles, motor scooters, gopeds, snowmobiles and any other
vehicle propelled by a motor. This definition shall specifically exclude an
electric wheelchair or other similar mobility device being used by the
physically handicapped person for which it was intended.
   (c)   Prohibition of motor vehicles. No person shall operate, drive, park,
place, or occupy a motor vehicle, or permit the operation, driving, parking,
placing, or occupancy of any motor vehicle owned or possessed by him or her
upon a recreational trailway.
   (d)   Exception. This prohibition shall not apply to:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles acting in their official capacity, including but
not limited to fire, police, or emergency medical service vehicles; and
      (2)   Maintenance, construction, or other vehicles when used for purposes
expressly permitted and authorized by the City.
   (e)   Posting. The prohibition of motor vehicles shall be posted and
maintained near each gate or principal entrance of each recreational trailway
to which this section applies, as designated by the City.
   (f)   Trailway municipal civil infraction.
      (1)   A person who violates any provision of this section is responsible
for a civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than
$50.00 plus costs, and other sanctions or damages, for each infraction. In
addition, offending vehicles may be seized/impounded at the discretion of the
investigating officer.
      (2)   Repeat offenses under this section shall be subject to increased
fines not to exceed $500.00.
   (g)   Effective date. This section shall take effect ten (10) days after
publication thereof. (Ord. 0-05-01, 2-7-05)
ARTICLE II. SMOKING AND VAPING PROHIBITED
Sec. 13-23. Definitions.
   (a)   Smoking or vaping means possessing a cigarette, e-cigarette, cigar, or
pipe that contains tobacco or any other product that is lighted or burning;
lighting a cigarette, e-cigarette, cigar, or pipe that contains tobacco or any
other burning product that is contained in a pipe, cigar, cigarette and e-
cigarette.
   (b)   City building means any building or structure owned, managed,
operated, and/or leased by the City of Fremont.
(Ord. O-18-04, 4-16-18)
Sec. 13-24. Smoking prohibited locations.
   (a)   A person shall not smoke or use tobacco products in any city-owned:
park, outdoor athletic complex, linear park, trail, pathway, cemetery, beach,
or city owned parking lots when used for community events.
   (b)   No person shall smoke in any city building.
(Ord. O-18-04, 4-16-18)
Sec. 13-25. Signs.
   Signs may be posted in the locations listed in Sec.
13-24 where smoking and the use of tobacco products are prohibited, but the
absence of posted signs does not invalidate this article.
(Ord. O-18-04, 4-16-18)
Sec. 13-26. Violations and penalties.
   A person who violates or fails to comply with this article shall be subject
to any one or more of the following:
   (a)   Being asked to stop smoking or using the tobacco product.
   (b)   Being asked to leave the premises.
   (c)   Being responsible for a civil infraction punishable by a fine of not
more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, one-hundred dollars
($100.00) for the second offense, and two- hundred dollars ($200.00) for the
third offense and thereafter.
(Ord. O-18-04, 4-16-18)
CHAPTER 14.
PARKS.
Article I. In General.
§ 14-1.   Dedication of block number 25 as public park.
Article II. Rules and Regulations.
Division 1. Generally.
§ 14-2.   Definitions.
§ 14-3.   Hours of operation.
§ 14-4.   Closing of certain areas.
§ 14-5.   Enforcement powers and duties of city manager and parking attendants
generally.
§ 14-6.   Lost and found articles.
§ 14-7.   Use of Fremont Lake Park for camping.
§ 14-8.   Exhibition of permit.
§ 14-9.   Disturbing, etc., person occupying area, etc., under authority of a
permit.
§ 14-10.   Advertising.
§ 14-11.   Climbing trees; sitting, etc., on monuments, etc.
§ 14-12.   Domestic animals generally.
§ 14-13.   Domestic animals running at large; discharge of firearms.
§ 14-14.   Dress; "properly clothed" defined.
§ 14-15.   Entering prohibited areas.
§ 14-16.   Presence in area reserved for opposite sex.
§ 14-17.   Erection of structures.
§ 14-18.   Fires; scattering of flammable materials.
§ 14-19.   Fireworks and explosives.
§ 14-20.   Gambling.
§ 14-21.   Treatment of animals, birds, reptiles, etc.
§ 14-22.   Hunting generally; use, possession, etc., of weapons; trapping;
shooting into park.
§ 14-23.   Bringing intoxicating beverage into park; being under influence of
intoxicating liquor.
§ 14-24.   Loitering; boisterous, etc., language; disorderly conduct.
§ 14-25.   Picnicking areas generally.
§ 14-26.   Pollution of water.
§ 14-27.   Public speeches, meetings, etc. – Generally.
§ 14-28.   Same – Permission to use Fremont Lake Park.
§ 14-29.   Disposal of refuse and garbage.
§ 14-30.   Maintenance of camp sites.
§ 14-31.   Removal of natural resources; excavations.
§ 14-32.   Removal, defacement, etc., of park property.
§ 14-33.   Destruction, etc., of property, etc., posting of signs, bulletins or
notices.
§ 14-34.   Maintenance and use of restrooms and washrooms.
§ 14-35.   Signs, placards, advertisements or inscriptions generally.
§ 14-36.   Solicitation of money.
§ 14-37.   Trees and shrubs – Injury; removal; attachment of devices; digging
or disturbing.
§ 14-38.   Same – Hitching horses, etc.
§ 14-39.   Vending and peddling.
Division 2. Swimming.
§ 14-40.   Designated areas.
§ 14-41.   Hours.
§ 14-42.   Tents, etc., in bathing area.
§ 14-43.   Costumes; areas where bathing suit may be worn.
§ 14-44.   Dressing areas.
Division 3. Traffic.
§ 14-45.   Establishment of hours when traffic is not permitted.
§ 14-46.   Obedience to officers and employees; power of officers and employees
to direct traffic, etc.
§ 14-47.   Areas in which vehicles may be operated.
Division 4. Boating.
§ 14-48.   Areas; operation generally.
§ 14-49.   Handling of boat.
§ 14-50.   Use of city boat landing – Generally.
§ 14-51.   Same – Camping; overnight anchoring; storage; fires; litter, etc.
§§ 14-52 to 14-63. Repealed.
   Division 5. Restricting Smoking and the Use of Tobacco Products in City
Parks
§ 14-64.   Definitions.
§ 14-65.   Prohibited acts.
§ 14-66.   Signs.
§ 14-67.   Violations and penalties.
   Article I. In General.
Sec. 14-1. Dedication of block number 25 as public park.
   Block number 25 of the City of Fremont, as appears by the recorded plat
thereof, is hereby dedicated as a public park to be used as such subject to the
rights of the city at any future time, to erect upon such block any public
buildings or to convey or lease the whole or any part thereof, to any
municipal, educational, philanthropic, library, scientific or other corporation
of a public character for the purpose of erecting any public buildings thereon.
(5-13-07, § 1)
Article II. Rules and Regulations.
Division 1. Generally.
Sec. 14-2. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   Director. The Superintendent of Public Works or any person designated by the
Superintendent as in charge of any park area and its activities and to whom all
park attendants or employees of such area are responsible.
   Park. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
area owned or used by the City and devoted to active or passive recreation.
   Vehicle. Any means of conveyance, whether mechanically- or motor-powered,
animal or animal-drawn, or self-propelled by the rider thereupon. The term
shall include any trailer in tow of any size, kind or description.
(7- -55, § 2; Ord. No. O-07-03, 8-20-07)
Sec. 14-3. Hours of operation.
   Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies, parks shall be open to the
public every day of the year during designated hours. The opening and closing
hours for each individual park shall be posted therein for public information.
(7- -55, § 9)
Sec. 14-4. Closing of certain areas.
   Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to the public by the
city manager at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at
regular and stated intervals, daily or otherwise, and either entirely or merely
to certain uses, as the city manager shall find reasonably necessary.
(7- -55, § 9)
Sec. 14-5. Enforcement powers and duties of city manager and park attendants
generally.
   (a)   Officials.  The city manager and park attendants shall, in connection
with their duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (b)   Ejectment. The city manager and any park attendant shall have the
authority to eject from the park any person acting in violation of this
chapter.
   (c)   Seizure of property. The city manager and any park attendant shall
have the authority to seize and confiscate any property, thing or device in the
park or used in violation of this chapter.
(7- -55, § 10)
Sec. 14-6. Lost and found articles.
   The finding of lost articles by park attendants shall be reported to the
city manager, who shall make every reasonable effort to locate the owners. The
city manager shall make every reasonable effort to find articles reported as
lost.
(7- -55, § 9)
Sec. 14-7. Use of Fremont Lake Park for camping.
   The Fremont Lake Park may be used for camping by the public under such rules
and regulations and upon the payment of such fees as may be from time to time
established by the city manager.
Sec. 14-8. Exhibition of permit.
   No person shall fail to produce and exhibit any permit from the city manager
he claims to have upon request of any authorized person who shall desire to
inspect such permit for the purpose of enforcing compliance with any
regulation.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-9. Disturbing, etc., person occupying area, etc., under authority of a
permit.
   No person shall disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party
occupying any area or participating in any activity under the authority of a
permit.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-10. Advertising.
   Unless authorized by the city council, no person shall announce, advertise
or call the public attention in any way to any article or service for sale or
hire.
(7- -55, § 8)
As to distribution of handbills, circulars, etc., see 13-11 of this Code.
Sec. 14-11. Climbing trees; sitting, etc., on monuments, etc.
   No person shall climb any tree or walk, stand or sit upon monuments, vases,
fountains, railings, fences, or gun carriages or upon any other property not
designated or customarily used for such purposes.
(7- -55, § 3)
Sec. 14-12. Domestic animals generally.
   No person shall cause the entry of a dog or other domestic animal into areas
other than automobile parking concourses and walks immediately adjacent thereto
and such other areas as may be clearly marked by signs bearing the words
"domestic animals permitted in this area." Nothing herein shall be construed as
permitting dogs running at large. All dogs in those areas where such animals
are permitted shall be restrained at all times on adequate leashes not greater
than fifteen feet in length.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-13. Domestic animals running at large; discharge of firearms.
   No person shall permit any domestic animal to run at large within any park,
nor shall any person discharge therein any firearm of any kind or description.
(5-25-36, § 12)
As to discharge of firearms generally, see 13-14 of this Code.
Sec. 14-14. Dress; "properly clothed" defined.
   No person shall appear at any place in other than proper clothing. With the
exception of the restricted bathing areas, "properly clothed" shall be
construed to prohibit the wearing of trunks or clothing that does not cover the
upper portion of the body.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-15. Entering prohibited areas.
   No person shall enter an area posted as "closed to the public," nor shall
any person use or abut the use of any area in violation of posted notices.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-16. Presence in area reserved for opposite sex.
   No person shall occupy any seat or bench or enter into or loiter or remain
in any pavilion or other park structure or section thereof which may be
reserved and designated for the use of the opposite sex. An exception shall be
made for children not over five years of age.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-17. Erection of structures.
   No person shall construct or erect any building or structure of whatever
kind whether permanent or temporary in character or run or string any public
service utility into, upon or across such lands, except on special written
permit issued hereunder.
(7- -55, § 3)
Sec. 14-18. Fires; scattering of flammable materials.
   No person shall build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and
under such regulations as may be designated by the city manager. No person
shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or
cigars, tobacco, paper or other inflammable material within any park or on any
highway, road or street abutting or contiguous thereto.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-19. Fireworks and explosives.
   Unless a written permit is first obtained from the city council, no person
shall bring or have in his possession or set off or otherwise cause to explode
or discharge or burn any firecracker, torpedo, rocket or other fireworks or
explosives of inflammable material or discharge them or throw them into any
such area from land or highway adjacent thereto. This prohibition includes any
substance, compound, mixture or article that in conjunction with any other
substance or compound would be dangerous from any of the foregoing standpoints.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-20. Gambling.
   No person shall gamble or participate in or abet any game of chance.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-21. Treatment of animals, birds, reptiles, etc.
   No person shall hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease,
shoot or throw missiles at any animal, reptile or bird; nor shall he remove or
have in his possession the young of any wild animal or the eggs or nest or
young of any reptile or bird; nor shall he collect, remove, have in his
possession, give away, sell or offer to sell, buy or offer to buy or accept as
a gift any specimen alive or dead of any of the group of tree snails. Exception
to the foregoing is made in that snakes known to be deadly poisonous, such as
rattle snakes, moccasins, coral snakes or other deadly reptiles, may be killed
on sight.
   No person shall give or offer or attempt to give to any animal or bird any
tobacco, alcohol or other known noxious substances.
(7- -55, § 3)
Sec. 14-22. Hunting generally; use, possession, etc., of weapons; trapping;
shooting into park.
   No person shall hunt, trap or pursue wild life at any time. No person shall
use, carry or possess firearms of any description or air rifles, spring-guns,
bows and arrows, slings or any other form of weapons potentially inimical to
wild life and dangerous to human safety or any instrument that can be loaded
with and fire blank cartridges or any kind of trapping device. Shooting into
park areas from beyond park boundaries is forbidden.
(7- -55, § 6)
Sec. 14-23. Bringing intoxicating beverage into park; being under influence of
intoxicating liquor.
   No person shall bring alcoholic beverages into a park, nor shall any person
drink alcoholic beverages at any time in the park or be under the influence of
intoxicating liquor.
(7- -55, § 7)
As to alcoholic beverages generally, see 13-1 to 13-3 of this Code.
Sec. 14-24. Loitering; boisterous, etc., language; disorderly conduct.
   No person shall sleep on the seats, benches or other areas or engage in
loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to a breach of the public
peace.
(7- -55, § 7)
As to disorderly persons generally, see 13-10 of this Code.
Sec. 14-25. Picnicking areas generally.
   (a)   No person shall picnic or lunch in a place other than those designated
for that purpose. Attendants shall have the authority to regulate the
activities in such areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the
maximum use for the comfort and convenience of all. Visitors shall comply with
any directions given to achieve this end.
   (b)   Use of the individual fireplaces together with tables and benches
follows the rule of the first come, first served.
   (c)   No person shall use any portion of the picnic areas or of any of the
buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such area facilities for
an unreasonable length of time if the facilities are crowded.
   (d)   No person shall leave a picnic area before the fire is completely
extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans,
bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in the disposal receptacles where
provided. If no such trash receptacles are available, then refuse and trash
shall be carried away from the park area by the picnicker to be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
(7- -55, § 6)
Sec. 14-26. Pollution of water.
   No person shall throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in
the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or other body of water in
or adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing
into such waters any substances, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will
or may result in the pollution of such waters.
(7- -55, § 4)
Sec. 14-27. Public speeches, meetings, etc. – Generally.
   No person shall deliver any oration, address, speech, sermon or lecture in
any such park, nor shall any public meeting be held therein unless permission
shall have been first obtained from the city council.
(5-25-36, § 10)
Sec. 14-28. Same – Permission to use Fremont Lake Park.
   Upon application being made therefor, the city council may grant to any
reputable organization the exclusive use of the whole or any part of the park
at Fremont Lake for the purpose of holding any picnic, meeting or other lawful
celebration therein including public speeches or addresses, which grant shall
include the right to grant lawful concessions, subject to such regulations as
may from time to time be adopted by the city council.
(5-25-36, § 11)
Sec. 14-29. Disposal of refuse and garbage.
   No person shall bring in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken
glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse or
other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or
contiguous to any park or left anywhere on the grounds thereof but shall be
placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles
are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of
elsewhere.
(7- -55, § 4)
Sec. 14-30. Maintenance of camp sites.
   All persons shall at all times keep the camp sites occupied by them in a
clean and sanitary condition.
(5-25-36, § 6)
Sec. 14-31. Removal of natural resources; excavations.
   No person shall dig or remove any beach sand whether submerged or not or any
soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs, plants, down timber or other wood or
materials or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or other means or
agency.
(7- -55, § 3)
Sec. 14-32. Removal, defacement, etc., of park property.
   No person shall willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or
displace or remove, any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces,
railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public utilities or
parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices, placards whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal.
(7- -55, § 3)
As to destruction of city property generally, see 13-7 to 13-9 of this Code.
Sec. 14-33. Destruction, etc., of property, etc.; posting of signs, bulletins
or notices.
   No person shall injure, deface, or molest any property or thing belonging
to, living or growing in and about any public park. No person shall pull up,
remove, damage, injure, destroy or in any manner molest or interfere with any
trees, shrubs, plants, signs, buildings or other structures of any name or
nature belonging to the city or situated in any of the public parks. No person
shall affix or inscribe any sign, poster, or inscription to, upon or against
any tree, structure, or property situated in any park or any street adjacent
thereto; except, that ordinary signs, bulletins or notices may be posted upon
such billboards as may be erected in such parks for that purpose by the city.
(5-25-36, § 9)
As to distribution of handbills, circulars, etc., see 13-11 of this Code.
Sec. 14-34. Maintenance and use of restrooms and washrooms.
   No person shall fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in
a neat and sanitary condition. No person over the age of five years shall use
the restrooms and washrooms designated for the opposite sex.
(7- -55, § 3)
Sec. 14-35. Signs, placards, advertisements or inscriptions generally.
   No person shall paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement or inscription whatever, nor shall any person erect or cause to
be erected any sign whatever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent
to a park.
(7- -55, § 8)
Sec. 14-36. Solicitation of money.
   Except for community school sponsored activities, no person shall solicit
alms or contributions for any purpose, whether for public or private use.
(7- -55, § 7)
Sec. 14-37. Trees and shrubs – Injury; removal; attachment of devices; digging
or disturbing.
   No person shall damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant
or injure the bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant; nor shall
any person attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or plant. A
person shall not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas or in any other way
injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
(7- -55, § 3)
For charter provisions as to trees and shrubs in parks, see Char., 2.2(19)
Sec. 14-38. Same – Hitching horses, etc.
   No person shall tie or hitch a horse or other animal to any tree or plant.
(7- -55, § 3)
Sec. 14-39. Vending and peddling.
   No person shall expose or offer for sale any article or thing, nor shall he
station or place any stand, cart or vehicle for the transportation, sale or
display of any such article or thing. Exception is here made as to any
regularly licensed concessionaire acting by and under the authority and
regulation of the city manager.
(7- -55, § 8)
As to sales by peddlers, etc., see 13-18 to 13-20 of this Code.
Division 2. Swimming.
Sec. 14-40. Designated areas.
   No person shall swim, bathe or wade in any waters or waterways in or
adjacent to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided
therefor and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may
be hereafter adopted; nor shall any person frequent any waters or places
customarily designated for the purpose of swimming or bathing or congregate
thereat when such activity is prohibited by the city manager upon a finding
that such use of the water would be dangerous or otherwise inadvisable.
(7- -55, § 6)
Sec. 14-41. Hours.
   No person shall frequent any waters or places designated for the purpose of
swimming or bathing or congregate thereat, except between such hours of the day
as shall be designated by the city manager for such purposes for each
individual area.
(7- -55, § 6)
Sec. 14-42. Tents, etc., in bathing area.
   No person shall erect, maintain, use or occupy on or in any beach or bathing
area any tent, shelter or structure of any kind unless there shall be an
unobstructed view into such tent, shelter or structure from at least two sides;
nor shall any guy wire, rope or extension or exterior brace or support be
connected or fastened from any such structure to any other structure, stake,
reel or other object outside thereof.
(7- -55, § 6)
Sec. 14-43. Costumes; areas where bathing suit may be worn.
   No person shall allow himself to be so covered with a bathing suit as to
indecently expose his person or call forth merited criticism. No person shall
appear in bathing costume at any place in the parks, except within the limits
of designated bathing places or areas, and all bathing costumes shall conform
to commonly accepted standards.
(7- -55, § 6)
Sec. 14-44. Dressing areas.
   No person shall dress or undress on any beach or in any vehicle, toilet or
other place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for
that purpose.
(7- -55, § 6)
Division 3. Traffic.
As to motor vehicles and traffic generally, see ch. 12 of this Code.
Sec. 14-45. Establishment of hours when traffic is not permitted.
   The City Manager or his/her designee may establish the times and/or days
during which any or all vehicular traffic, as defined in Section
14-2 of this chapter, in any public park shall cease or be temporarily
curtailed.
(5-25-36, § 8; Ord. No. O-07-03, 8-20-07)
Sec. 14-46. Obedience to officers and employees; power of officers and
employees to direct traffic, etc.
   No person shall fail to obey any police, traffic or other law enforcement
officers and City Parks or Public Works Department employees. Such officers and
employees are hereby authorized and instructed to direct traffic whenever and
wherever needed in the parks and on the highways, streets or roads immediately
adjacent thereto in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and
such supplementary rules and regulations as may be issued subsequently by the
City Manager.
(7- -55, § 5; Ord. No. O-07-03, 8-20-07)
Sec. 14-47. Areas in which vehicles my be operated.
   No person shall drive or operate any vehicle, as defined in Section
14-2 of this chapter, on any area of any park, except the paved or graveled
(hard-surfaced) park roadways or parking areas or such other areas as may on
occasion be specifically designated as temporary roadway or parking areas by
the City Manager.
   Exceptions are made for the use of the following vehicles in the following
locations:
   (a)   Baby carriages, strollers or similar devices being properly used to
transport infants or small children in any area of any park.
   (b)   Powered or self-propelled wheelchairs or similar mobility devices
being properly used by those persons that have a physical characteristic
categorized as a handicap, which limits ambulation or necessitates the use of a
wheelchair for mobility, or a person who is blind, in any area of any park.
   (c)   Self-propelled (non-motorized) bicycles, tricycles, skateboards,
skates (roller, in-line, etc.), scooters, coasters or similar devices being
properly used on designated paved sections or segments of the Fremont Area Town
and Country Path, as well as within the Fremont Skate/Bike Park.
   (d)   Self-propelled (non-motorized) bicycles being properly used on un-
paved sections of trails or other non-roadway or pathway areas of Branstrom
Park, but only if being used as part of or during an actual event or race
approved in advance by the City Council. The City Council may grant approval,
but for no more than two (2) such uses each calendar year. For those events or
races conducted in or upon that portion of Branstrom Park owned by the Fremont
Public School (FPS) District, advanced approval shall be required from the FPS
Board of Education. The City Council shall place appropriate conditions on its
approval for such uses to minimize damage to the Park's ecosystem and minimize
liability exposure for the City. Use of the same or other un-paved sections of
trails or other non-roadway paths in any park for practice or training for such
events or races is prohibited.
   (e)   Utility vehicles, such as golf carts, quads, "Gators", "Mules" or
other similar motorized vehicle may be used by registered campers, or their
direct relatives, any of whom are at least nineteen (19) years of age and
possess a valid motor vehicle drivers license, only within the Fremont Lake
Park Campground, but not within the remainder of Fremont Lake Park or upon any
public roadway or the non-motorized Fremont Area Town & Country Path. Exception
is made for those persons with a recognized mobility handicap as defined in (b)
above who receive annual written authorization from the Fremont Chief of Police
as qualifying for a State of Michigan motor vehicle handicap license plate or
vehicle interior placard. Said exception shall only permit such qualified
person from using such above-identified utility vehicle to travel from the
campground across a designated bridge spanning Darling Creek, along a
designated route and crossing a public roadway at a right angle (perpendicular)
to such roadway in order to access City-operated boat docking facilities along
Fremont Lake within Fremont Lake Park. Said route and bridge designations shall
be made by the Chief of Police in consultation with and the consent of the City
Manager.
   (f)   Authorized City Public Works Department or other vehicles providing
maintenance or other services within or for City parks.
   (g)   Emergency vehicles including, but not necessarily limited to, those
such as police, fire, rescue, first responder or ambulance services.
   The use of vehicles in any City park as described in the above exceptions is
not a guaranteed right of any person. Said use shall be considered a privilege,
subject to the proper and safe use of said vehicles at all times. Said
privilege may be revoked temporarily or permanently by action of the Chief of
Police, City Manager or Superintendent of Public Works if, in their opinion,
the continued use of a said vehicle by said person would be improper, dangerous
to other persons, or effect the health, safety or welfare of the City's Parks
or the community at large. Improper or unauthorized use of vehicles by persons
within the City's Parks is subject to enforcement actions in Section
14-5 of this chapter "Enforcement Powers and Duties of City Manager and Park
Attendants Generally" and may also result in a civil infraction citation and/or
fine as authorized in Chapter 5.1 of this Code "Civil Infractions, Citations
and Penalties." A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues, unless otherwise
provided. Civil fines or penalties for such offenses shall be as periodically
designated by Resolution of the City Council, but shall in no case be less than
the following:
      1st Offense         $ 90.00
      2nd Offense         150.00
      3rd or more Offense      250.00 each offense
(7- -55, § 5; Ord. No. O-07-03, 8-20-07)
Division 4. Boating.
Sec. 14-48. Areas; operation generally.
   No person shall bring into or operate any boat, raft or other watercraft,
whether motor powered or not, upon any waters, except at places designated for
boating by the city manager. Such activity shall be in accordance with
applicable regulations as are now or may hereafter be adopted.
(7- -55, § 6)
Sec. 14-49. Handling of boat.
   No person shall navigate, direct or handle any boat in such a manner as to
unjustifiably or unnecessarily annoy or frighten or endanger the occupants of
any other boat.
(7- -55, § 6)
Sec. 14-50. Use of city boat landing – Generally.
   The City boat landing at Second Lake shall be used only for the launching of
small boats not equipped with gas motors of any type; except electric trolling
motors are permitted provided same are operated at "no-wake" speed. The use of
said boat landing shall be for no other purpose except as authorized by the
City Manager.
(7-10-61, § 1; Ord. No. O-08-05, 6-2-08)
Sec. 14-51. Same – Camping; overnight anchoring; storage; fires; litter, etc.
   No person shall use the city landing for camping, for the anchoring or
tieing up of boats overnight or for the storage of fish shanties, boating
equipment or other personal property. No fires shall be built upon the
launching area and all persons using the area shall keep the premises free from
litter, rubbish and trash.
(7-10-61, § 3)
As to fire protection generally, see ch. 9 of this Code. As to refuse and
garbage generally, see ch. 16.
Secs. 14-52 to 14-63. Repealed by ordinances adopted 6-16-80.
Division 5. Restricting Smoking and the Use of Tobacco Products in City Parks
Sec. 14-64. Definitions.
   As used in this section:
   (a)   Smoking or smoke means the carrying by a person of a lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe or other lighted smoking device.
   (b)   Tobacco product means a preparation of tobacco to be inhaled, chewed,
sucked or placed in a person's mouth. (Ord. No. O-02-04, 4-15-02)
Sec. 14-65. Prohibited Acts.
   A person shall not smoke or use tobacco products in designated non-smoking
areas in public parks, which are owned or operated by the City of Fremont. The
City Council shall designate non-smoking areas from time to time by resolution.
(Ord. No. O-02-04, 4-15-02)
Sec. 14-66. Signs.
   Signs shall be posted in the public parks delineating the areas where
smoking and the use of tobacco products in such parks is prohibited. (Ord. No.
O-02-04, 4-15-02)
Sec. 14-67. Violations and Penalties.
   (a)   A person who violates or fails to comply with this Section shall be
subject to any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Being asked to stop smoking or using the tobacco product;
      (2)   Being asked to leave the premises;
      (3)   Being responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to
the civil fines set forth in the Schedule of Civil fines of this code and any
other relief that may be imposed by the Court. Each act of violation and each
day upon which such violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
   (b)   The city may establish the times during which all traffic in any
public park shall cease. (Ord. No. O-02-04, 4-15-02)
CHAPTER 15.
BUILDING AND BUILDING REGULATIONS.
For charter provision as to the regulation of buildings, etc., see Char., § 2.2
(28).
For state law as to plumbing generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 338.3511 - 338.3569.
As to building generally, see ch. 5 of this Code. As to electricity, see ch. 8.
As to water and sewers generally, see ch. 21. As to private sewage disposal
systems, see §§ 21-62 to 21-82.
Article I. In General
§
15-1.   State construction code; enforcing agency.
§
15-2.   City to be governed by state housing statutes.
§
15-3.   Terms generally.
§
15-4.   Specific definitions.
§
15-5.   State building code; enforcing agency.
§
15-6.   State mechanical code; enforcing agency.
§
15-7.   State plumbing code; enforcing agency.
§
15-8.   State electrical code; enforcing agency.
§
15-9.   Floodplain management provisions of the state construction code.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 15-1. State construction code; enforcing agency.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 9 of Act No. 230 of the Public Acts of
1972 (MCL 125.1501, MSA 5.2949(9)), as amended, the persons or agencies
designated by the city council are hereby designated as the enforcing agency to
discharge the responsibilities of the city under Act No. 230 of the Public Acts
of 1972 (MCL 125.1501 et seq., MSA 5.2949(1) et seq.), as amended. Applications
for building and other permits required by the state construction code shall be
made to persons or agencies designated by the city council.
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
   State law reference- State construction code act of 1972, MCL 125.1501 et
seq., MSA 5.2949(1) et seq.
Sec. 15-2. City to be governed by state housing statutes.
   The city is hereby brought within the state housing law, Act No. 167 of the
Public Acts of 1917 (MCL 125.401 et seq., MSA 5.2771 et seq.), as amended.
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
Sec. 15-3. Terms generally.
   (a)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms, words,
and phrases shall apply to this
Chapter 15 and shall have the meanings described in this section and when used
anywhere within
Chapter 15 of this code.
   (b)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
   (c)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in the building code, fire code, zoning code, plumbing code,
mechanical code, electrical code or the fire code, such terms shall have the
same meaning as ascribed to them as in those codes.
   (d)   Terms not defined. When terms are not defined by this section, such
terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings as the context implies.
   (e)   Parts. Whenever the words "dwelling unit," “dwelling”, "premises,"
"structure," "rooming house," "rooming unit" or "story" are stated in this
code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any
part thereof."
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
Sec. 15-4. Specific definitions.
   As used in this article:
   (a)   Abandoned/disabled motor vehicle means a motor vehicle which is
dismantled, in whole or in part, and/or which is mechanically unable to operate
as the result of a mechanical defect or malfunction, a mechanical defect or
malfunction includes, but is not limited to; deflated or missing tires; a
vehicle resting on supports other than inflated tires; missing or damaged
lights, windshield, or battery. The absence of minor and nonessential parts,
such as antennas, or ornaments, hubcaps, etc., shall not cause a vehicle to be
deemed dismantled and disabled. Any vehicle which is not capable of being
licensed for operation on streets, alleys or highways shall be deemed to be
disabled. Any vehicle that does not have a current license plate displayed
shall be deemed to be abandoned.
   (b)   Absentee landlord means the owner of property that is leased, assigned
or rented to another and who lives more than forty (40) miles from the Fremont
city limits.
   (c)   Accessory structure means any structure which is used exclusively for
an accessory use.
   (d)   Approved means approved by the manager of code compliance.
   (e)   Attractive nuisance means and consists of items in a structure or on a
premises, which may prove detrimental to children, this includes, but is not
limited to: any abandoned wells, shafts, basements or excavations,
refrigerators or abandoned/disabled motor vehicles, open and vacant structures,
structurally unsound fences, buildings or structures, lumber, trash, debris,
hazardous trees, broken and/or hanging tree limbs, or hazardous vegetation.
   (f)   Basement means a portion of a structure or building which is partly or
completely below ground.
   (g)   Bathroom means a room containing a lavatory, toilet, and a bathtub or
shower.
   (h)   Bedroom means any room or space used or intended to be used for
sleeping purposes.
   (i)   Building means any structure used or intended for use or occupancy by
persons, materials, or animals.
   (j)   Building code means the building code, as adopted in
Chapter 15 of the City of Fremont Codified Ordinances and in effect at the time
of an alleged violation.
   (k)   Certificate of compliance means a certificate issued by the manager of
code compliance for any rental dwelling or unit, which indicates the holder is
in compliance with this code. A certificate of compliance will be issued after
all required inspection and registration fees are paid and after the rental
dwelling has been inspected and determined to be in complete compliance with
this code. A certificate of compliance shall expire automatically at the end of
two (2) years for rental dwellings that have three (3) or more units or rooming
houses and have received any violations of this code during the most recent
inspection of the premises. A certificate of compliance shall expire at the end
of three (3) years for rental dwellings with one (1) or two (2) units and
rental dwellings with three (3) or more units or rooming houses which have not
received any violations of this code during the most recent inspection of the
premises, except as otherwise provided in this code.
   (l)   Code compliance officer means a duly authorized representative of the
manager of code compliance.
   (m)   Driveway means space on a lot, not to exceed twelve (12) feet in
width, except where such space forms the apron to the entrance of a garage,
specifically designated and used for the movement of motor vehicles, trailers
and watercraft to or from the lot or to or from a public street.
   (n)   Dwelling means any house, building, structure, tent, shelter, trailer,
mobile home, or vehicle, or portion thereof, except railroad cars on tracks or
rights-of-ways, which is occupied in whole or in part as the home, residence or
living or sleeping place for one (1) or more persons, either permanently or
intermittently. A house trailer or other vehicle, when occupied or used as a
dwelling, shall be subject to all the provisions of this code, except that a
house trailer or other vehicle, duly licensed as a vehicle, may be occupied or
used as a dwelling for reasonable periods of time without being subject to the
provisions of this code for dwellings, where such occupation is otherwise
lawful, and when it is located in a park or place designated or licensed for
their use provided that such parking sites are equipped with adequate safety
and sanitary facilities.
   (o)   Dwelling unit means a single unit providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   (p)   Efficiency dwelling unit means any room having cooking facilities and
used for combined living, dining and sleeping purposes.
   (q)   Electrical code means the electrical code as adopted by this chapter
and in effect at the time of an alleged violation.
   (r)   Emergency means a situation where a condition exists which is
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or
the occupants of a dwelling and/or premises.
   (s)   Exterior property means the open space on the premises and on
adjoining property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   (t)   Extermination means the control and elimination of insects, rats or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying,
fumigating, trapping or by any other approved and safe pest elimination
methods.
   (u)   Family means:
      (1)   An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage
or adoption, together with not more than two (2) other persons who are living
together as a single housekeeping unit or dwelling unit with no additional
roomers; or
      (2)   Not more than four (4) persons not related by blood, marriage or
adoption in a C or multiple district, as defined in the zoning code, who are
living together as a single housekeeping unit or dwelling unit with no
additional roomers.
   (v)   Fence means any wall (except a retaining wall), screen, partition or
similar structure existing on a yard or parcel of land, which encloses land;
divides land into distinct portions; separates contiguous properties; obstructs
the passage of light or air into adjacent land or obstructs the vision of
motorists on or near public roads.
   (w)   Front yard means the space on a lot, extending the full width of the
lot and situated between the street line and the front line of the main
structure on the lot. However, where a lot is located at the intersection of
two (2) or more streets, the front yard shall, in addition, include the space
on the lot extending the full width or length of the lot and situated between
the street line and the side line of the main structure on the lot.
   (x)   Garbage means the animal or vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   (y)   Guardrail means a building component or a system of building
components located at or near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that
minimizes the possibility of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
   (z)   Guest means any person hiring or allowed to occupy a room for living
or sleeping purposes.
   (aa)   Guest room means any room used or intended to be used by a guest for
sleeping purposes. Every one-hundred (100) square feet of superficial floor
area in a dormitory shall be considered to be a guest room.
   (bb)   Habitable space means space in a structure for living, sleeping,
eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility
spaces, and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
   (cc)   Hazard to health or safety means any unsafe structure or premises, as
defined in Subsec. 10-39(a) of this code.
   (dd)   Health officer means the county health officer or any of his or her
authorized representatives.
   (ee)   Hedge means a dense row of low branching trees, shrubs, vines or
other plants which encloses land, divides land into distinct portions,
separates contiguous properties, obstructs the passage of light and air into
adjacent land or obstructs the vision of motorists on or near public roads.
   (ff)   Hot water means water at a temperature of one-hundred (100) degrees
Fahrenheit or greater.
   (gg)   Imminent danger means a condition that could cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   (hh)   Infestation means the presence, within or contiguous to, a structure
or premises of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
   (ii)   Labeled means those devices, equipment, appliances, or materials to
which have been affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a
nationally recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other
organization concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic
inspection of the production of the above-labeled items and by whose label the
manufacturer attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized
standards.
   (jj)   Landlord means the owner or manager of property that is leased,
assigned or rented to another.
   (kk)   Let for occupancy or let means to permit, provide or offer possession
or occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   (ll)   Lodging house means any structure or portion thereof containing guest
rooms where rent is paid in money, goods or services and having an occupant
load not exceeding twenty (20) people.
   (mm)   Manager of code compliance means the manager of the office of code
compliance of the department of planning and neighborhood development,
including his or her duly authorized or designated representative, unless a
contrary intent is clearly shown.
   (nn)   Mechanical code means the mechanical code, as adopted in this chapter
and in effect at the time of an alleged violation.
   (oo)   Motor vehicle means any tracked or trackless, self propelled or
mechanically operated vehicle, whether operable or not, including but not
limited to automobiles, buses, trucks, vans, wreckers or road construction
equipment or machinery.
   (pp)   Multiple dwelling means a dwelling containing three (3) or more
dwelling units.
   (qq)   Occupancy means the purpose for which a building or portion thereof
is used or occupied.
   (rr)   Occupant means any individual living or sleeping in a structure or
having possession of a space within a structure.
   (ss)   Occupied space means the total area of all buildings or structures on
any lot or parcel of ground projected on a horizontal plane, excluding
permitted projections as allowed by this code.
   (tt)   One-family dwelling means a dwelling occupied by only one (1) family,
and so designed and arranged as to provide cooking and kitchen accommodations
for one (1) family only, also called a single-family dwelling.
   (uu)   Openable area means that part of a window, skylight or door which is
available for unobstructed ventilation and/or egress and which opens directly
to the outdoors.
   (vv)   Owner means any person, corporation, partnership, trust, limited
liability company, or D.B.A. who has ownership of a parcel of property as
evidenced by a deed, a land contract, or some other documentation that shows a
legal interest in a parcel of property.
   (ww)   Owner occupied dwelling means a dwelling which a person both owns as
a title holder or land contract purchaser and lives in as his or her home.
   (xx)   Person means an individual, corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, or any other group or legal entity acting as a unit.
   (yy)   Placard means a notice posted on a structure, building or dwelling.
   (zz)   Plumbing code means the plumbing code, as adopted by this chapter and
in effect at the time of an alleged violation.
   (aaa)   Premises means a lot, plot or parcel of land, including any building
or structure thereon.
   (bbb)   Public nuisance means:
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity.
      (2)   Any attractive nuisance in a building or on a premises that may be
detrimental to children. This includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   Any abandoned wells, shafts, basements or excavations;
         b.   Refrigerators or abandoned/disabled motor vehicles as defined in
sec. 10-4;
         c.   Structurally unsound fences or structures; or
         d.   Lumber, trash, debris, hazardous trees, broken and/or hanging
tree limbs or hazardous vegetation.
      (3)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health.
      (4)   Overcrowding a room with occupants as defined in the building code.
      (5)   Insufficient ventilation or illumination as specified in this code.
      (6)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities
      (7)   Uncleanliness, as determined by the county health officer or the
manager of code compliance.
      (8)   Whatever renders air, food or drink unwholesome or detrimental to
the health of human beings, as determined by the health officer.
      (9)   Hazardous or unsanitary premises.
   (ccc)   Recorded land contract, deed, mortgage, etc. means a deed, land
contract, mortgage and/or any other document of title used to establish
ownership of real property, which has been certified as recorded with the
county register of deeds in which the property is located.
   (ddd)   Recreational vehicle means any self-propelled or mechanically
operated vehicle, whether operable or not, including but not limited to
motorcycles, snowmobiles, dune buggies, go-carts, all terrain vehicles, motor
homes and campers.
   (eee)   Registered agent means the person registered with the office of code
compliance who represents the owner of a parcel of property. Person includes
any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability company, or
D.B.A.
   (fff)   Registered owner means the owner registered with the office of code
compliance for a parcel of property. Registered owner includes any individual,
corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability company, or D.B.A.
   (ggg)   Rental means any premises, dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit
which is not occupied on a daily basis by the owner(s), and which is offered to
let, to hire, or to assign for a period of more than thirty (30) days to any
person(s) for any or no consideration.
      (1)   If any premises, dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit is
occupied by any person(s) other than the owner(s) of record, his or her spouse,
or their minor dependents, it shall be presumed to be a rental property.
      (2)   The owner(s) of record shall be established by legal instruments
recorded with the register of deeds, including but not limited to warranty
deeds or land contracts.
   (hhh)   Rooming house means a building arranged or occupied for lodging,
with or without meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one (1)- or two
(2)-family dwelling.
   (iii)   Rooming unit means any room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but
not for cooking purposes.
   (jjj)   Strict liability offense means any offense for which the prosecution
is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It is enough to
prove that the defendant either did an act that was prohibited, or failed to do
an act that the defendant was legally required to do.
   (kkk)   Structure means the whole or part of something that is built or
constructed for use as a border, support, shelter, or building.
   (lll)   Substandard condition means any condition defined as substandard in
subsection 10-38(a)(1). Such condition does not make a building unsafe unless
so determined by the manager of code compliance or the county health officer.
   (mmm)   Taxpayer of record means the taxpayer listed with the City of
Fremont Assessor for a parcel of property, including any person, corporation,
partnership, trust, limited liability company, or D.B.A.
   (nnn)   Tenant means a person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or
not the legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a
unit.
   (ooo)   Toilet room means a room containing a toilet or urinal and a
lavatory but no bathtub or shower.
   (ppp)   Trailer means any contrivance without means of self locomotion which
is designed to be towed by a motor vehicle for the purpose of transporting
property, people or animals.
   (qqq)   Trash means combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except
garbage. Trash includes the residue from burning wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials as well as paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   (rrr)   Two (2)-family structure means a building that contains two (2)
dwelling units.
   (sss)   Unsafe means any condition defined as unsafe in Subsec. 10-39(a)(1)
through (10) of the Fremont City Code of Ordinances or by state statute.
   (ttt)   Ventilation means the natural or mechanical process of supplying
conditioned or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any building
space.
   (uuu)   Watercraft means any contrivance used or designed for operation and
the transportation of people or property on water, including but not limited to
boats, rafts, vessels, canoes, ships, motor vessels, motorboats, rowboats or
personal watercraft.
   (vvv)   Workmanlike means work executed and performed in a skilled and
professional manner, e.g. generally plumb, level, square, in line, undamaged
and without marring adjacent work.
   (www)   Yard means an open space on the same lot with a structure.
   (xxx)   Zoning code means the Fremont Joint Zoning Code, as amended, as
adopted in Chapter 22 of Fremont City Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
Sec. 15-5. State building code; enforcing agency.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Building Code in accordance with
Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the building
inspector of the city is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge
the responsibility of the city under Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as
amended, State of Michigan. The city assumes responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of said Act throughout its jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
Sec. 15-6. State mechanical code; enforcing agency.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Mechanical Code in accordance
with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the
mechanical inspector of the city is hereby designated as the enforcing agency
to discharge the responsibility of the city under Act 230, of the Public Acts
of 1972, as amended, State of Michigan. The city assumes responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of said Act throughout its jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
Sec. 15-7. State Plumbing Code; enforcing agency.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Plumbing Code in accordance with
Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the plumbing
inspector of the city is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge
the responsibility of the city under Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as
amended, State of Michigan. The city assumes responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of said Act throughout its jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
Sec. 15-8. State Electrical Code; enforcing agency.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Electrical Code in accordance
with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the
electrical inspector of the city is hereby designated as the enforcing agency
to discharge the responsibility of the city under Act 230, of the Public Acts
of 1972, as amended, State of Michigan. The city assumes responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of said Act throughout its jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
Sec. 15-9. Floodplain management provisions of the state construction code.
   (a)   Agency designated. Pursuant to the provisions of the state
construction code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public
Acts of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of the City of Fremont is
hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of
the City of Fremont under Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended,
State of Michigan. The City of Fremont assumes responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of said Act throughout the corporate limits of
its jurisdiction.
   (b)   Code appendix enforced. Pursuant to the provisions of the state
construction code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public
Acts of 1972, as amended, Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code shall be
enforced by the enforcing agency within the City of Fremont.
   (c)   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Entitled
"Newaygo County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions)" and dated 2-18-2015 and the
Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRMS) panel number(s) of 26123C; 0437D, 0439D,
0441D; and 0442D dated 2-18-2015 are adopted by reference for the purposes of
administration of the Michigan Construction Code, and declared to be a part of
Section 1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code, and to provide the content of the
"Flood Hazards" section of Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. No. O-18-01, 2-5-18)
CHAPTER 16.
REFUSE COLLECTION/RESOURCE RECOVERY.
§ 16-1.   Definitions
§ 16-2.   Deposit on Public or Private Property Generally
§ 16-3.   Sanitation of Premises; Preparation of Refuse for Collection
§ 16-4.   Powers and Duties of City Manager
§ 16-5.   Inspections
§ 16-6.   Adoption of Regulations
§ 16-7.   Funds for Establishment and Maintenance of Collection and Disposal
System
§ 16-8.   Collection and Disposal of Mixed Refuse, Commingled Recyclables and
Other Waste
§ 16-9.   Rates and Billing
§ 16-10.   Replacement of Damaged/Lost Containers/Carts
§ 16-11.   Commercial and Industrial Collection
§ 16-12.   Schedule of Collections
§ 16-13.   Notice by Contractor
§ 16-14.   Office Services of Contractor
§ 16-15.   Salvaging, Scavenging or Removing Materials Placed for Collection
§ 16-16.   Penalties
§ 16-17.   Transportation of Refuse
§ 16-18.   Prohibition against Burning of Waste
§ 16-19.   Prohibition against Disposal of Yard Waste in Landfill
Sec. 16-1. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms (or pronouns used in
place of them) shall be defined as follows:
   Appliance Sticker: A sticker to be affixed to appliances, which shall be
printed with the City seal or other appropriate words. This indicates to
Contractor that such is intended for the residential collection.
   Brush:  Materials such as twigs and shrub clippings, which must be no more
than four feet (4') in length, three inches (3") in diameter and weighing no
more than forty (40) pounds, but shall not include Christmas trees or other
unacceptable items. A brush tag must be purchased.
   Brush Tag: A tag to be affixed to bundles of brush, which shall be printed
with the City seal or other appropriate words. This indicates to Contractor
that such is intended for the residential collection.
   Building Refuse: Waste materials from demolition, construction, remodeling
and repair operations on residences and other buildings. A quantity not
exceeding thirty (30) pounds in weight, less than one bushel in volume, and of
which no piece is longer than four feet in length, shall be accepted by
Contractor as mixed refuse. Contractor shall be required to accept said
quantity on a one-time per week basis per collection point. Any quantity in any
way in excess of the above stated standards shall not be regarded as mixed
refuse, but as unacceptable items, and shall be removed by a building or
demolition contractor employed by the resident, or by the resident him/herself.
   Bulky Items Sticker: A sticker to be affixed to bulky items, which shall be
printed with the City seal or other appropriate words. This indicates to
Contractor that such is intended for the residential collection.
   Bulky Items: Consisting of large pieces of furniture, bed springs, storm
doors and windows, metal furniture, water closets, toilets, bathtubs, sinks,
carpets and pads, railroad ties, fence posts, fences not exceeding 3' x 4' in
dimension and other discarded material incidental to the usual routine of
housekeeping, but not to include household appliances. For household appliances
such as refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers, dishwashers, air conditioning
units, furnaces, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, televisions and hot water heaters,
see "Household Appliances."
   Christmas Trees: Trees used for decoration to celebrate the Christmas
holiday.
   City: The governmental entity, including its officers, employees and agents,
representing the incorporated area of the City of Fremont, Newaygo County,
Michigan.
   City Council or Council: The City Council of the City of Fremont.
   City Manager or Manager: The City Manager of the City of Fremont or a duly
authorized and designated representative of the City Manager.
   Collection Point: The point of distribution of a refuse collection cart or
refuse bag and recycling container. In general a singe-family home including
any mobile home, is a single collection point. The owner shall be required to
request cart or bag service and recycling container for each residential unit
in any building used as an apartment of for apartments and the owner of each
condo unit shall be required to request cart or bag service and recycling
container.
   Commercial Refuse: Any and all accumulation of mixed refuse generated by
business establishments, churches, schools, multiple-family residences, office
buildings and other establishments engaged in commerce. Commercial refuse as
defined in this Section shall not and is not classified as single-family home
mixed refuse.
   Commingled Recyclables:  Recyclable materials such as glass, plastics,
ferrous and non-ferrous metals, newspaper, etc. placed in a City-approved
recycling container for collection at curbside. The City or its duly authorized
representative shall, from time to time, specify the designation of what
constitutes commingled recyclables after consultation with Contractor.
   Composting Site: The composting site as designated by the City of Fremont.
   Condominium: That portion of a condominium project designed and intended for
separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed, and used for
residential purposes. For purposes of this Chapter, a condominium is a single-
family home.
   Contractor: A private individual, firm, partnership or corporation
collecting and disposing mixed refuse and commingled recyclables pursuant to a
duly authorized and executed contract with the City to provide such services at
a certain price or rate.
   Curbside: The designated physical location for the placement of refuse
accumulation intended for single family home collection and disposal. This
designated location shall be as near as possible to the traveled streets. The
intention of the curbside designation is to allow collection by Contractor's
personnel in a rapid manner with walking or reaching requirements minimized or
by use of an automated truck.
   Director of Public Works:  Either the Superintendent of Public Works for the
City of Fremont or a duly authorized and designated representative of the
Superintendent.
   Dumpster: Hoppers or roll-off boxes of two (2)-cubic yard capacity or
larger.
   Garbage: All waste material of animal, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable matter
incidental to the use and storage of food for human consumption.
   Hazardous Waste: Any waste material as defined by the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources Hazardous Waste Management Act (Act 64 of 1979, as amended),
or the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, or as defined by the
federal government by statute, law, rule or regulation, including both wet and
dry-cell batteries.
   Household Appliances:  Including, but not limited to washers, dryers, air
conditioners, microwave ovens, humidifiers, stoves, refrigerators, hot water
heaters, televisions, etc., but excluding sinks, lavatories, toilets and other
plumbing appurtenances. Compare to "Bulky Items."
   Industrial Refuse: Waste materials resulting from industrial and/or
manufacturing operations or processes of every nature whatsoever, including
waste material resulting from cleaning up in connection with such operations
and processes. Industrial refuse as defined in this section shall not be and is
not classified as single-family home mixed refuse.
   Landfill: Any solid waste land disposal area for which a permit, other than
a general permit, is required by Part 115 of Chapter of 3 of Act 451 of Public
Acts of 1994, as amended, that receives solid waste for disposal in or upon
land.
   Mixed Refuse: Garbage, rubbish, bulky items, household appliances, brush and
yard wastes, but same shall not include nor contain hazardous waste or
unacceptable items.
   MRF: A materials recovery facility, the principal operation of which is the
separation of recyclables from the waste stream and marketing recyclables as
reusable product or raw material.
   Multiple-Family Residence: A residential structure containing more than four
(4) household living units, which may be classified as residential (single-
family home under this Section) or commercial in nature at the owner's option.
   Operations Manager: Contractor's on-site Operations Manager responsible for
the coordination of all work completed under a Contract authorized by this
Chapter.
   Public Service Building: The Department of Public Works located at 805 West
Oak Street, Fremont, Michigan.
   Recyclable Materials: All newspapers, including inserts, magazines and
catalogs, discarded mail, boxboard, clear (not colored) glass food and beverage
containers, tin food cans, aluminum foil and beverage cans, plastic household
bottles (#1 and #2), corrugated cardboard, polystyrene (#6) and such other
materials as may be designated under a Contract authorized by this Chapter for
collection from time to time. As the technology becomes available, new
materials may be included in this definition by mutual agreement of the
parties.
   Recycling Container: A City-approved container with a capacity of at least
eighteen (18) gallons, which is furnished by Contractor for the purpose of
storage and setting out for collection of commingled recyclables. Contractor
shall replace the original blue containers with a standard dark green container
as the original containers become lost, damaged or stolen.
   Refuse Bag: A 2.5-mil bag, yellow in color and at least thirty (30) gallons
in capacity, with a "City of Fremont" label into which shall be placed only
garbage and rubbish.
   Refuse Collection Cart:  A City-approved cart with a minimum capacity of
sixty-five (65) gallons supplied by Contractor to each collection point into
which shall be placed only garbage and rubbish.
   Rubbish: The miscellaneous solid waste material resulting from housekeeping
and including, but not limited to packing boxes, cartons, excelsior, paper,
magazines, ashes, tin cans, bottles, glassware, dishes, rubber, rags, leather,
floor sweepings, etc. This may include commingled or separated recyclables as
defined by this Section. Also, see "Bulky Items" and "Unacceptable Items."
   Separated Recyclables: A collection of recyclable materials such as
newspapers, including inserts, magazines and catalogs, discarded mail,
boxboard, clear (not colored) glass food and beverage containers, tin food
cans, aluminum foil and beverage cans, plastic household bottles (#1 and #2),
corrugated cardboard, polystyrene (#6) and such other materials as may be
designated under a Contract authorized by this Chapter for collection from time
to time sorted separately into a recycling container(s).
   Single-Family Home or Single-Family Residence: A separate residential
structure containing no more than four (4) household living units, including,
but not limited to condominiums and mobile homes.
   Sticker:  (See "Appliance Sticker" or "Bulky Items Sticker.")
   Surety:  The party who is bound with and for Contractor to insure the
performance of the Contract.
   Unacceptable Items: Building refuse (except those amounts specified as
allowable under the definition of the term "Building Refuse"), concrete, wood
(except as defined herein as being in a form acceptable for collection under
the terms of a Contract authorized by this Chapter), earth, motor vehicle or
machinery parts, automobile tires, batteries, oil, twigs, shrub clippings, tree
branches and similar materials that do not constitute brush as defined herein
logs, stumps, hazardous waste and similar items. Same shall not be collected
and are the responsibility of the property owner for disposal. See also
"Building Refuse" and "Hazardous Waste."
   Yard-Waste Bag: A biodegradable thirty (30)-gallon Kraft paper bag with the
City seal or other appropriate words printed on the bag. This indicates to
Contractor such is intended for the residential yard-waste collection.
   Yard Wastes:  The miscellaneous waste materials resulting from landscaping
or maintaining the landscape of a home including, but not limited to grass,
weeds, house plants, leaves and brush, garden waste materials and dirt
incidental to minor plantings, etc. (Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-2. Deposit on public or private property - Generally.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon any public or private property within
the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City any garbage or other
objectionable waste. (Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-3. Sanitation of premises; preparation of refuse for collection.
   The owner, his agent or the occupant of any premises within the City shall
be responsible for the sanitary conditions of the premises occupied by him and
all refuse shall be placed upon his premises for collection in the manner by
the rules and regulations for such collection as are from time to time
established by the City Manager.
Sec. 16-4. Powers and duties of City Manager.
   The City Manager, in order to protect the health and safety of the people of
this City, is authorized and directed, by implementing and enforcing the
provisions of this Chapter, to control the storage, collection and disposal of
refuse within the City and to provide a public refuse collection and refuse
disposal service from premises within the City so that the type and usual
quantity of refuse can be safely and expeditiously handled by such public
refuse collection and refuse disposal service. (Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
   Charter references - For City Charter provision as to refuse and garbage
collection, see Charter Section 2.2 (29); as to functions and duties of City
Manager, see Charter Section 7.3.
Sec. 16-5. Same - Inspections.
   The City Manager, after identifying himself or his designated agent shall
have the power to enter at reasonable times on public or private property for
the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the
enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. No. O- 02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-6. Same - Adoption of regulations.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to adopt such written
regulations as may be necessary for the implementation and enforcement of this
Chapter. A certified copy of all regulations, which he may from time to time
adopt, shall be filed with the City Clerk, and such regulations shall be made
available for the inspection of the public on request. Such regulations shall
have the same force and effect as the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. No. O-
02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-7. Funds for establishment and maintenance of collection and disposal
system.
   The City Council shall appropriate, borrow or make funds available by other
legitimate means for the equipment for the collection and disposal of refuse
and for the establishment, maintenance and operation or refuse collection
systems and refuse disposal methods and sites. This Section shall not, however,
preclude the City from entering a Contract with a private Contractor to provide
the required collection and disposal equipment and system to the City. (Ord.
No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-8. Collection and disposal of mixed refuse, commingled recyclables and
other waste.
   Contractor shall provide to each collection point services for mixed refuse,
commingled recyclables collection and disposal on the basis of one (1) weekly
collection for each collection point. Each collection point shall use the
following provided services:
   1.   Refuse Collection and Disposal. Each collection point may select
whether to obtain through Contractor one (1) refuse collection cart, or, in the
alternative, to purchase refuse bags through vending services established by
Contractor with the prior approval of City.
   2.   Commingled Recyclables Collection. Contractor shall provide to each
collection point a recycling container for collection and disposal of
commingled recyclables. At the request of the collection point, Contractor
shall provide a second recycling container at no additional charge to either
the collection point or the City.
   3.   Yard Waste. Yard waste shall be deposited in a biodegradable yard-waste
bag, which shall have an appropriate label on each bag. Each collection point
must place the yard-waste bag or bags curbside alongside the refuse collection
cart, but shall be separated from other refuse bags and the refuse collection
cart.
      a)   Each collection point may purchase yard-waste bags with the
appropriate label through vending services established by Contractor. The price
of yard-waste bags and the names and places of vending services where they may
be purchased shall be approved by the City after consultation with Contractor.
Such prices shall be published from time to time by Contractor, under the terms
of this Chapter and pursuant to the terms of a Contract authorized by this
Chapter in force with Contractor at the time of publication.
      b)   Contractor shall transport all yard-waste bags to the designated
City Composting Site.
      c)   Each year, at times to be designated by the City (but generally from
about October 15 through November 15), the provisions regarding yard-waste
collection and disposal shall be suspended and, during this period each year,
City will operate a Loose-Leaf Collection Program. (The City operates this
program under which the City collects all leaf waste after residents deposit
same in the gutter of the streets at times designated by the City.) During this
period of suspension, Contractor shall collect no yardwaste bags.
   4.   Brush.
      a)   Contractor will also pick up brush which is bound with rope or twine
in a bundle no more than four feet (4') in length, with three inch (3") in
diameter or less limbs/brush, weighing no more than forty (40) pounds and
tagged with a brush tag, and will deliver them to the City's composting site.
Each collection point may purchase brush tags with the appropriate label
through vending services established by Contractor.
      b)   Contractor will be required to pick up brush, properly bundled and
tagged, from April through October, except for the first Monday of each month
during the same period, during which the City shall operate a Bulk Curbside
Brush Pickup Program.
   5.   Bulky Items and Appliances.
      a)   No bulky item shall be collected and disposed of by Contractor
unless it has affixed to it a bulky item sticker. No appliance shall be
collected and disposed of by Contractor unless it has affixed to it an
appliance sticker.
      b)   Bulky item stickers and appliance stickers may be purchased through
vending services established by Contractor. With the approval of City, the
names, places and price of same to be determined by City, after consultation
with Contractor, and published from time to time by Contractor, with the
approval of City, under the terms of this Chapter and any Contract authorized
by this Chapter in force at the time.
      c)   Bulky items shall be collected weekly by Contractor at each
collection point and disposed of properly.
      d)   Appliances shall be collected one (1) day per month by Contractor
and disposed of properly. The City shall designate the collection day after
consultation with Contractor.
   6.   Availability of Bags, Tags and Stickers. Contractor shall ensure that
local vending outlets that sell bags, tags and stickers authorized by this
Chapter have sufficient inventory for the sale to the public. Contractor may
arrange with the Director for local storage of the necessary bags, tags and
stickers.
   7.   Curbside Placement for Collection. All materials to be collected and
disposed of by Contractor shall be placed in appropriate containers by the
occupants of each collection point at curbside, or in the event of no curb, at
the edge of the street fronting the collection point. The Director of Public
Works shall, in accordance with the rules and regulations, promulgate placement
and removal of carts and containers.
   8.   Weight Limit. In no event shall any bag exceed thirty (30) pounds in
weight, or any bundle of brush exceed forty (40) pounds in weight.
   9.   No Sticker/No Collection. In no event shall any item requiring an
appropriate sticker not having same be collected and disposed of.
   10.   Unacceptable Items and Other Items Not Required To Be Collected.
      a)   Contractor shall not be required to collect and dispose of
unacceptable items.
      b)   In the event Contractor encounters unacceptable items or other items
not required by this Chapter to be collected and disposed of by Contractor as
defined herein, Contractor shall affix a notice to the item or the collection
of items explaining such and shall leave the telephone number of the office
where inquiries may be received.
      c)   In the event a question should arise whether or not an object is to
be collected as defined under the terms and provisions of this Chapter, the
Director shall make the final decision, which shall be binding on all parties.
   11.   Residential Dumpster Service.
      a)   Contractor shall annually submit and publish a price schedule on a
range of dumpster sizes appropriate for residential disposal of materials not
falling within the definition of the items designated in this Chapter for
collection and disposal.
      b)   In the event materials not falling within the definition of items
designated in this Chapter are to be disposed of, each resident shall contact
Contractor directly for such service and pay Contractor directly for such
service, or in the alternative may make other arrangements for proper disposal
of such materials.
      c)   Contractor shall not have exclusive rights for such services. (Ord.
No. O-02- 03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-9. Rates and Billing.
   1.   City shall bill the residential owner(s), agent, occupant or tenant of
each collection point quarterly for the services specified herein and may
include that bill with the quarterly water or sewer bill or separate as the
City Clerk deems appropriate. Failure of City Clerk to send, or owner, agent,
occupant or tenant to receive such bill does not absolve or relieve liability
for the payment by the owner, agent, occupant or tenant or effect the City's
right to include and collect those charges by a lien on the premises from which
refuse was collected or by general City taxes assessed upon the City tax roll
against such premises.
   2.   Rates shall be approved by the City Council. A price increase for only
the mixed refuse collection cart and recyclables collections may be requested
once each year and shall become effective with the refuse collections for
April, which are billed by Contractor to the City in May. Contractor, desiring
to adjust such rates, shall make a proposal in writing to the City Council
through the City Clerk by February 1st prior to the effective date of the
requested price adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Contractor may
increase rates annually in accordance with the Urban Detroit Consumer Price
Index as published by the United States Department of Labor. Rates for all
other bags, tags or stickers required by a Contract authorized under this
Chapter shall remain constant for the life of any such Contract, unless
mutually agreed to by the City and Contractor.
   3.   City shall have the right to collect said amounts in the same manner as
water and sewer bills.
   4.   The owner, agent, occupant or tenant must make payment to the City
within thirty (30) days ensuing from the City's mailing of each quarterly
billing.
   5.   Upon default of payment, the City may collect in an action of assumpsit
against the party owing such charges or the City Council may direct such
charges to be included in and against such premises. In addition, a fee of ten
(10) percent will be added to the outstanding bill each quarter the bill, or
any portion of it is delinquent and shall be included in the debt. (Ord. No. O-
02-03, 4-7- 02)
Sec. 16-10. Replacement of Damaged/Lost Containers/Carts.
   Mixed refuse containers or commingled recyclables containers or carts
damaged through the carelessness of the occupants of the collection point,
shall be replaced by Contractor and the cost thereof shall be charged to the
owner, agent, occupant or tenant of the collection point. The Director shall
arbitrate any disputes concerning the causation of damage to or loss of carts
or recycling containers. Contractor at no cost to the resident will replace
containers stolen or those damaged by Contractor's refuse vehicles. Contractor
shall maintain at all times a local working inventory of mixed refuse carts and
recycling containers, local storage of which may be arranged with the Director.
(Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-11. Commercial and Industrial Collection.
   Contractor shall not be required to collect materials of any type from
commercial and industrial establishments unless mutually agreed upon by City
Council and Contractor under an executed contract. (Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02;
Ord. No. O-08-07, 12-15-08)
Sec. 16-12. Schedule of Collections.
   Contractor shall publish and distribute a schedule of collections in a
manner designed reasonably to give notice thereof to all residents of the City,
same to be approved by the City or its designated representative, subject to
the following requirements:
   a)   The notice of the schedules of collection shall contain the following
information: the day of the week upon which collection shall be made for each
collection district, a City map that delineates the collection districts by
street, the name, address and telephone number of Contractor the proper
location for the containers pending collection, the time of day at which the
containers must be so placed.
   b)   The notice must be published not less than two (2) weeks prior to the
beginning of any change in the collection service schedule.
   c)   Collection times for single-family residential premises shall be
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of the day scheduled for
collection. No regular collection shall be made on any Sunday.
   d)   All schedules and routings are subject to approval by the Director.
   e)   Collections shall not be scheduled on the following holidays: New
Year's Day, Independence Day, Thanksgiving Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day and
Christmas Day. When the above holidays fall during the week, the collection
schedule for the week shall be delayed one day for the remainder of the week.
(Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-13. Notices By Contractor.
   Contractor shall include in any publication under this Chapter or as part of
compliance with the terms thereof, the name of Contractor, the address of
Contractor, the telephone number or numbers of Contractor, the address of the
local office of Contractor and a statement as to the manner and method by which
complaints regarding service may be made and shall be resolved.
   Contractor shall make no changes to operational, collection or material
preparation procedures without receiving approval of the City at least thirty
(30) days prior to the implementation of any such change. Contractor shall
assist the City, either financially or in a manner acceptable to the City, with
the dissemination of notices to collection points informing them of the
changes. (Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-14. Office Services of Contractor.
   Contractor shall maintain an office for receipt of service calls and
complaints. Said office shall be open and available for calls Monday through
Friday each week from 7:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m. Said office shall contain at
least two (2) telephone lines with a toll-free number for Fremont and listed
under the name of Contractor in the local telephone directories. Contractor
shall provide an employee attendant in such office during all hours that such
office is required to be open to accept and resolve complaints, orders for
special pickup service or to receive instructions. In the event collection
activities continue later than 6:00 p.m. on weekdays or anytime on a Saturday,
an employee shall remain in service until all route collection activities are
completed. Contractor shall also provide a Customer Service Representative who
will physically and in-person check-in with the City Administrative Offices on
a weekly basis to handle complaints, concerns or requests. (Ord. No. O-02-03,
4-7-02)
Sec. 16-15. Salvaging, Scavenging or Removing Materials Placed for Collection.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to salvage or scavenge, or otherwise
take or remove materials placed for collection at curbside other than
Contractor. (Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-16. Penalties.
   1.   Penalties shall comply with those established in Chapter 5.1, Article
III, “Civil Infractions, Citations and Penalties.” For any second or subsequent
offense, the fine shall be no more than $500. It shall be the duty of the City
Manager, or authorized representative, to enforce the provisions of this
Chapter. If, after investigation, the City Manager or authorized representative
determines that a violation of this Chapter exists, he shall be authorized to
issue a municipal civil infraction citation to any person, firm or corporation
that is responsible for violating the provisions of this Chapter. Service of
said civil infraction citation or civil infraction notice shall be made in
accordance with Chapter 5.1 "Civil Infractions, Citations and Penalties" of the
Fremont City Code.
   2.   Each violation continuing from day to day shall be deemed a separate
offense and violation under the terms and provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. No.
O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-17. Transportation of Refuse.
   No person shall convey or transport junk, broken glass, scrap material,
concrete, dirt, ashes, sand, brush, logs, metal shavings or scrap metal in any
other form over the public streets and alleys of the City unless such material
are contained in a dump box or other receptacle that is so constructed that it
is impossible for any such material to fall through such receptacle or off or
over the side of the same on the public streets and alleys of the City. (Ord.
No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-18. Prohibition against burning of waste.
   No person shall ignite, burn or allow the burning of any refuse, garbage,
recyclable materials, yard waste or other waste. (Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
Sec. 16-19. Prohibition against disposal of yard wastes in landfill.
   No person shall deposit yard waste in any receptacle, the contents of which
are ultimately designated for disposal in a State-approved and licensed
sanitary landfill site. (Ord. No. O-02-03, 4-7-02)
CHAPTER 16.1.
SALE OF TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY
§ 16.1-1.   Short title.
§ 16.1-2.   Purpose.
§ 16.1-3.   Definitions.
§ 16.1-4.   Prohibition of yard sales.
§ 16.1-5.   Exemptions.
§ 16.1-6.   Responsibilities of property owner or tenant conducting sale.
§ 16.1-7.   Prohibition of sale of vehicles, boats, campers, recreational and
other vehicles.
§ 16.1-8.   Signs.
§ 16.1-9.   Persons responsible for placement of signs.
§ 16.1-10.   Right of entry for enforcement and inspection.
§ 16.1-11.   Removal of unsafe or unlawful signs.
§ 16.1-12.   Public nuisance per se.
§ 16.1-13.   Notice of violation.
§ 16.1-14.   Penalties.
Sec. 16.1-1. Short Title.
   This Ordinance shall be known as and may be cited as the "Sale of Personal
Property Ordinance." (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-2. Purpose.
   These rules and regulations are intended to serve the following purposes,
among others:
   (a)   To protect and promote the health, safety, convenience and general
welfare of the residents of the City of Fremont.
   (b)   To regulate the sale of tangible personal property within any one area
of the City.
   (c)   To prohibit the infringement of any businesses into established
residential areas.
   (d)   To eliminate perpetual, prolonged and extended sales in residential
areas.
   (e)   To establish time limits and annual frequencies for said sales.
   (f)   To limit the type of merchandise to be sold.
   (g)   To establish parking and other safety requirements.
   (h)   To provide for the regulation of signs for said sales. (Ord. No. O-04-
03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-3. Definitions.
   In interpretation of this Ordinance, the following definitions shall apply,
except where the context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended:
   (a)   "Person" shall mean any private individual, family group, association
of individuals, voluntary association, firm, partnership, company, corporation,
entity or private organization of any kind, either singular or plural. "Person"
shall also include spouse, children, residents of a household or other
residents of residential premises.
   (b)   "Personal Property" shall mean tangible property that is owned,
utilized and maintained by and individual person or the members of his or her
residence and acquired in the normal course of living in or maintaining a
residence. It does not include merchandise that was purchased for resale or
obtained on consignment.
   (c)   "Yard Sale" shall mean all general sales, open to the public,
conducted from or on a residential premise or in any residential zone as
defined by Chapter 22 "Zoning", for the purposed of disposing of personal
property or other property. The sale shall be for the display for sale, barter,
trade or auction, or the sale, barter, trade or auction of or offer to sell,
barter, trade or auction any item of personal property from a property, whether
inside or outside a building or structure located within the incorporated area
of the City of Fremont. This term shall be deemed to include, but not be
limited to all sales entitled "garage," "estate," "moving," "auction," "porch,"
"yard," "backyard," "lawn," "room," "rummage," "driveway," "attic," "patio,"
"carport," "basement," "tag" and "flea market," and sales of the same nature as
the foregoing by whatever name. (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-4. Prohibition of Yard Sales.
   No person shall have, hold, cause to be held or permit to be held a yard
sale on property within the City of Fremont except a person may have, hold,
cause to be held or permit to be held a yard sale only under the following
limitations:
   (a)   The sale shall not exceed three (3) consecutive days in length.
   (b)   No more than two (2) yard sales shall be held by any person or on any
particular lot or location in any calendar year.
   (c)   Sales shall be conducted only between the hours of 8:00 AM and 6:00 PM
local time.
   (d)   Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the
residence, in a garage, carport or yard, but only in such areas. No property
offered for sale at a yard sale shall be displayed in any public right-of-way,
street or alley or on or across any sidewalk.
   (e)   All personal property for sale and all sales material, tables, etc.
shall be removed from the exterior of the premises within twenty-four (24)
hours of the conclusion of the sale. (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-5. Exemptions.
   This Chapter shall not be applicable to:
   (a)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order of process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (b)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
   (c)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business,
commercial or industrial establishment from or at a place of business as would
be permitted by the Chapter 22 "Zoning" of the City Code of Ordinances.
   (d)   Persons selling or advertising for sale an item or items of tangible
personal property specifically named or described in the advertisement and
which separate items do not exceed five in number. (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-6. Responsibilities of Property Owner or Tenant Conducting Sale.
   Both the owner as well as the occupant or lessee of the premises on which
the sale or activity is conducted under the provisions of Section 4.01 above,
shall be jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of good order
and decorum on the premises during all hours of such sale or activity. No such
individual shall permit any loud or boisterous conduct or noise on said
premises nor permit vehicles to impede the passage of traffic on any roads or
streets in the area of such premises. All such individuals shall obey the
reasonable orders of any member of the Police, Fire or Public Works Departments
of the City of Fremont in order to maintain the public health, safety,
convenience and welfare. (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-7. Prohibition of Sale of Vehicles, Boats, Campers, Recreational and
Other Vehicles.
   (a)   No person shall place for sale a vehicle, boat, camper, recreational
or other similar vehicle for more than thirty (30) days and for not more that
twice in any calendar year.
   (b)   No person shall place for sale the same vehicle, boat, camper,
recreational or other vehicles for more than thirty (30) days in any calendar
year.
   (c)   No more than two (2) of such vehicles shall be advertised as being for
sale or be parked on a lot during any calendar year.
   (d)   No person shall have more than one (1) such vehicle for sale at any
given time. (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-8. Signs.
   One sign advertising the sale may be placed on the property on which the
sale will be conducted. Said sign shall:
   (a)   Not exceed an area of four (4) square feet.
   (b)   Be placed no earlier than 6:00 PM on the day before the sale begins
and must be removed within one (1) hour of the conclusion of the sale.
   (c)   Be placed in a location that would not inhibit or obstruct the vision
of drivers of vehicles on public streets or entering or exiting driveways or of
pedestrians along sidewalks.
   (d)   Not be illuminated by any artificial means.
   (e)   Not be placed by any method or means, including but not limited to
being taped, wired, glued, tied or in any way affixed:
      (i)   On or over any public property.
      (ii)   On, over or within ten (10) feet of the edge of any street, alley,
sidewalk or similar public right-of-way.
      (iii)   On any utility pole, light pole, streetlight, decorative light
pole, street name sign, postal box, flagpole, City building or fixture.
      (iv)   On any tree or fence, whether on public or private property.
      (v)   On any traffic control or safety device, including, but not limited
to any sign, signpost, signal control box, signal post, crosswalk signal post,
barrel or barricade. (Ord. No. O-04- 03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-9. Persons Responsible for Placement of Signs.
   The installation or placement of temporary signs within the City advertising
a yard sale at locations within or outside the City, other than those signs as
authorized in Section 8.01 of this Ordinance shall be a violation of this
Ordinance. The owner tenant or person in apparent control of the property
whereat such sale is being conducted as advertised by signs posted in violation
of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed to be prima facie the
person responsible for the installation or placement of any such sign. (Ord.
No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-10. Right of Entry for Enforcement and Inspection.
   A police officer, code compliance officer, firefighter or any other official
designated by any City ordinance or by the City Manager shall have the right of
entry to any premises showing evidence of a sale of tangible personal property
for the purposes of enforcement or inspection and may close the premises from
such a sale or issue a civil infraction citation, or in the case of a police
officer, arrest any individual who violates the provisions of this Ordinance.
Sec. 16.1-11. Removal of Unsafe or Unlawful Signs.
   (a)   If any of the officials authorized in Section 10.01 of this Ordinance
determines that any sign regulated by this Ordinance is unsafe or constitutes a
hazard to the public, such as obstructing or detracting the vision of vehicle
drivers or pedestrians, or has been constructed, erected, installed, placed or
maintained in violation of this provisions of this Ordinance, then the official
shall remove the sign or require its immediate removal. Failure to comply with
a notice of violation by the official shall be deemed a civil infraction and a
public nuisance per se as described in Section 12.01 of this Ordinance.
   (b)   Any sign placed or erected in a public street, alley or right-of-way,
or other public place, which is not specifically permitted in such place, shall
be deemed an unlawful sign and any official so authorized in Section 10.01 of
this Ordinance shall remove such sign. Such removal may be without written or
other notice to the owner, lessee or person of the property adjacent to the
public street, alley or right-of-way or other public place upon which such sign
is located. No compensation shall be made for the removal or disposal of any
such sign. (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-12. Public Nuisance Per Se.
   A violation of the provisions of this Ordinance is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance per se, and the same may be abated by order of any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-13. Notice of Violation.
   A notice of violation of this Ordinance may be served in any manner allowed
by law upon the person who has violated provisions of this Ordinance. (Ord. No.
O-04-03, - -04)
Sec. 16.1-14. Penalties.
   A violation of this Ordinance shall be deemed a civil infraction, and person
who violates any provision or provisions of this Ordinance, upon conviction,
shall be punished with a fine as established by the Fremont City Council by way
of a Resolution from time to time.
   (a)   Each day that a violation continues shall be considered, and may be
charged as a separate offense.
   (b)   If a civil fine is ordered to be paid under this Section 14.01, the
judge, district court referee, or district court magistrate shall summarily tax
and determine the costs of the action, which shall not be limited to the costs
taxable in ordinary civil actions, and may include all expenses, direct and
indirect, to which the City of Fremont has been put in connection with the
civil infraction, including attorney fees. (Ord. No. O-04-03, - -04)
CHAPTER 17.
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
For charter provisions as to special assessments generally, see Char., §§ 11.1
to 11.4. As to special assessment collections, see Char., § 12.4.
As to establishment and duties of assessor, see § 2-21 of this Code. As to tax
board or review, see § 2-21.
§ 17-1.   Purpose of chapter.
§ 17-2.   Assessable public improvement expenses generally.
§ 17-3.   Advisory petitions – Requests by city council; receipt of voluntary
presentations.
§ 17-4.   Same – Addressing, contents and signing.
§ 17-5.   Same – Filing, checking and presentation.
§ 17-6.   Actions of city council prerequisite to issuance of levy order.
§ 17-7.   Hearing generally.
§ 17-8.   Protest of owners to be assessed.
§ 17-9.   Amount levied not limited by assessed valuation of premises.
§ 17-10.   Factors used to determine amount.
§ 17-11.   Determinations to be made by city council after hearing.
§ 17-12.   Method of making assessment – Generally.
§ 17-13.   Same – By frontage; by benefits.
§ 17-14.   Special assessment roll – Contents.
§ 17-15.   Same – Certification by assessor or board of special assessors;
filing; notice of hearing.
§ 17-16.   Same – Review by city council.
§ 17-17.   Same – Endorsement or attachment of mayor's warrant.
§ 17-18.   Assessment to constitute lien on confirmation of roll; payment date
generally; interest on unpaid amounts.
§ 17-19.   Sales of goods to collect unpaid levy.
§ 17-20.   Division of assessment on change of ownership of portion of assessed
land.
§ 17-21.   Collection; status and disposition of interest.
§ 17-22.   Annual return to assessor by treasurer of unpaid assessments; levy
of unpaid assessments on city tax roll.
§ 17-23.   Reassessment of invalid or defective assessments.
§ 17-24.   Invalidity due to improper assessment procedure by city council.
§ 17-25.   Effect on city lien of order vacating assessment.
§ 17-26.   Collection by court action – Generally.
§ 17-27.   Same – Judgements for properly chargeable amounts where assessment
was improper.
§ 17-28.   Same – Effect on lien created by chapter.
§ 17-29.   Written contracts in lieu of procedures of chapter.
§ 17-30.   Spreading of estimated costs for issuance of bonds; reassessment of
costs after completion of improvement.
§ 17-31.   Utilization of other procedures when local financing is available.
§ 17-32.   Deductions where improvements are over size, etc., to provide extra
capacity, etc.
§ 17-33.   Revolving fund to finance owners' share of assessment.
Sec. 17-1. Purpose of chapter.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to encourage the development of the city
by establishing a procedure for financing and constructing needed public
improvements such as, but not limited to, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, curb,
gutter and blacktop streets, water mains, parking lots, antipollution equipment
and facilities, etc. All special assessments shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. (5-17-73, § 1.)
Sec. 17-2. Assessable public improvement expenses generally.
   The expense of any public improvement that shall confer upon any land or
premises special benefits in addition to those conferred upon the general
public may be defrayed in whole or in part by a special assessment on the lands
and premises so benefited. (5-17-73, § 2.)
Sec. 17-3. Advisory petitions – Requests by city council; receipt of voluntary
presentations.
   The city council, in order to ascertain whether or not a reasonable number
of property owners to be assessed desire any particular improvements to be
made, may request and receive a petition therefor or may receive such a
petition advisory only and shall not be jurisdictional. (5-17-73, § 3.)
Sec. 17-4. Same – Addressing, contents and signing.
   All advisory petitions shall be addressed to the city council and contain a
brief description of the improvement sought to be made and shall be signed by
property owners only, whose signatures shall be followed by a brief description
of the property owned by them. The signatures on such petitions shall be
verified by the oath of one or more of the circulators of such petition, before
filing. (5-17-73, § 4.)
Sec. 17-5. Same – Filing, checking and presentation.
   Advisory petitions shall be filed with the city clerk, who shall check them
for correctness, and, if they are found to be in order, he shall refer them to
the city manager who shall present them to the city council at its next regular
or special meeting called for that purpose, together with his recommendations.
(5-17-73, § 5.)
Sec. 17-6. Actions of city council prerequisite to issuance of levy order.
   Should the city council determine that the public improvement mentioned in
the advisory petition, or any other public improvement, to be advisable it
shall take the following action by resolution before any special assessment
order is levied:
   (a)   It shall define the improvement with a reasonable degree of certainty.
   (b)   It shall determine the necessity therefor.
   (c)   It shall determine what portion of the cost shall be defrayed by
special assessment and the basis on which said assessment shall be spread.
   (d)   It shall designate the district or lands and premises on which the
special assessment shall be levied.
   (e)   It shall cause adequate plans and estimates of the cost thereof to be
made and filed in the office of the city clerk for public inspection.
   (f)   It shall designate a time and place for hearing objections to or
suggestions concerning the improvement and the levying of the special
assessment.
   (g)   It shall give notice of the proposed special assessment to each owner
of or party in interest in property to be assessed, whose name appears upon the
last local tax assessment records, by mailing a notice thereof by first class
mail addressed to such owner or party at the address shown on the tax records,
at least ten days before the date of such hearing.
   (h)   It shall give notice that is has taken the steps recited in this
section and of the time and place or hearing by publishing a notice thereof in
one or more newspapers in general circulation within the city for at least one
day for two successive weeks prior thereto; provided, that the time set for the
hearing shall not be less than three days after publication of last notice. (5-
17-73, § 6; 6-21-82.)
Sec. 17-7. Hearing generally.
   At the time and place specified in the notice for the public hearing, the
city council shall meet and hear any person to be affected by the proposed
public improvement. The hearing may be adjourned from time to time by the city
council and the city council may make any changes in the proposed work or
assessment which shall seem reasonable or proper in view of any objections or
suggestion or for any other reason which may appear to be for the best interest
of the city; provided, that if the improvements intended to be made are
enlarged upon or additions made to the district to be assessed, such
enlargement shall not be done until after another hearing is held pursuant to
notices as required by original hearings. (5-17-73, § 7.)
Sec. 17-8. Protest of owners to be assessed.
   No such improvement shall be made if the owners of more than two-thirds of
the property to be assessed shall object thereto in writing; provided, that if
the city council shall determine and declare by a resolution unanimously
adopted that the proposed improvement is necessary for the public health,
welfare or safety, such improvement may be made and such special assessment may
be levied therefor, notwithstanding such objections thereto. (5-17-73, § 8.)
Sec. 17-9. Amount levied not limited by assessed valuation of premises.
   The whole amount to be levied upon the premises subject to such special
assessment shall not be limited by the assessed valuation of the property
subject to such special assessment. (5-17-73, § 9.)
Sec. 17-10. Factors used to determine amount.
   For the purpose of determining the amount of the special assessment, the
cost of such improvement shall include but not be limited to the cost of plans,
surveys, right-of-way, estimates, construction, labor, equipment rental
inspection, legal expenses plus up to fifteen percent of the actual cost of the
project for engineering, administration and overhead. (5-17-73, § 10.)
Sec. 17-11. Determinations to be made by city council after hearing.
   At the conclusion of the public hearing required by section 17-7, the city
council shall determine the advisability of the proposed improvement and
special assessment; and if determined advisable or necessary, the city council
shall order the special assessment by resolution which shall determine whether
it is to be done by contract or force account, the share to be paid by the city
at large, whether the assessment is to be made by frontage, benefit or other
legal manner and shall designate the several lots or premises to be assessed,
the amount of assessment, the number of installments if it is to be paid in
installments, the rate of interest to be charged on the unpaid balance and
shall designate the name or number by which such assessment roll shall be known
and referred to. (5-17-73, § 12.)
Sec. 17-12. Method of making assessment – Generally.
   Special assessments may be made according to the frontage or benefits or
such other legal manner, as the city council shall determine. When made
according to benefits, they shall be made by the city council sitting as a
board of special assessors; when made according to frontage, the city assessor
shall prepare the assessment roll. (5-17-73, § 11.)
Sec. 17-13. Same – By frontage; by benefits.
   If the assessment is to be made according to frontage each lot or parcel of
land shall be assessed such relative portion of the whole amount to be levied
as the frontage of such lot or parcel on the improvement bears to the whole
frontage of all lots or parcels to be assessed; provided, that if by reason of
the shape or size of any parcel such an assessment will be inequitable, the
relative frontage may be changed by the board of special assessors to meet
those conditions.
   If the assessment is to be made according to benefits, each lot or parcel
shall be assessed such relative portions of the whole sum to be levied as shall
be proportionate to the estimated benefit resulting to such lot or parcel from
the improvement. (5-17-73, § 13.)
Sec. 17-14. Special assessment roll – Contents.
   The special assessment roll shall contain an accurate description of each
parcel of land in the special assessment district, the frontage on the
improvement, if the assessment is to be made by frontage and the amount of the
several installments when the assessment is payable in installments. (5-17-73,
§ 14.)
Sec. 17-15. Certification by assessor or board of special assessors; filing;
notice of hearing.
   The assessor or board of special assessors, as the case may be, shall attach
to such special assessment roll a certificate showing the action taken by him
and shall thereupon file the roll with the city clerk who shall give notice of
the time and place when the city council shall review such roll and hear
objections thereto by publishing such notice once a week for two successive
weeks in one or more papers published and circulating in the city. The clerk
shall also mail notice of the hearing to each property owner listed in such
roll at least ten days before the date of such hearing.
(5-17-73, § 15.)
Sec. 17-16. Same – Review by city council.
   At the time appointed or at some adjourned hearing the city council shall
review the roll and shall hear and consider all objections thereto whether
written or oral. The city council may make any corrections deemed necessary, or
may refer the roll back to the assessor or board of special assessors with
directions to correct such roll or to make a new roll as conditions may
require. If the roll shall be approved, the city council shall pass a
resolution confirming in and the clerk shall endorse thereon a certificate
showing the confirmation and the date thereof. (5-17-73, § 16.)
Sec. 17-17. Same – Endorsement or attachment of mayor's warrant.
   Upon the confirmation of such assessment roll the mayor shall endorse
thereon or attach thereto his warrant bearing the date, the date of
confirmation and commanding the city treasurer to collect the several sums
therein assessed. (5-17-73, § 18.)
Sec. 17-18. Assessment to constitute lien on confirmation of roll; payment date
generally; interest on unpaid amounts.
   On the confirmation of such roll the assessment levied thereon shall
constitute a lien upon the respective lots or parcels of land and shall be a
charge against the person to whom assessed until paid and, except as to future
installments, shall be at once due and payable. All special assessments,
whether payable in installments or not, remaining unpaid more than sixty days
after confirmation thereof shall, at the expiration of such period, bear
interest at the rate determined by the city council from the date of
confirmation. (5-17-73, § 17.)
Sec. 17-19. Sales of goods to collect unpaid levy.
   In case any person named in such assessment roll shall neglect or refuse to
pay his assessment or interest on such assessment upon demand, the treasurer
may levy and collect such assessment by distress and sale of the goods and
chattels of such person. (5-17-73, § 18.)
Sec. 17-20. Division of assessment on change of ownership of portion of
assessed land.
   In case there shall be a change in the ownership in a portion of any of the
lots or parcels described in such assessment roll, the treasurer may divide the
assessment and allow each portion to be paid by itself; in case of assessment
by frontage the division shall be made in proportion to the number of feet
frontage; in case of assessment by benefits, it shall be made in proportion to
the area or the respective portions. (5-17-73, § 19.)
Sec. 17-21. Collection; status and disposition of interest.
   Upon receiving any special assessment roll and warrant, the treasurer shall
proceed to collect the amounts assessed thereon and on all sums paid after the
expiration of sixty days from the confirmation of such roll; he shall collect
interest at the rate specified in the resolution ordering said improvement,
from the date of confirmation. Such interest shall be an additional charge upon
the lot or premises assessed and against the person chargeable therewith, and
shall be paid to the treasurer and credited to the Local Improvement Interest
and Sinking Fund. (5-17-73, § 20.)
Sec. 17-22. Annual return to assessor by treasurer of unpaid assessments; levy
of unpaid assessments on city tax roll.
   Between May 15 and 31 in each year, the treasurer shall make a return duly
certified by him to the assessor of all special assessments then in his hands
on which annual installments are due and have remained unpaid more than sixty
days from the date of the original confirmation of the roll and shall add
thereto interest at the rate specified for the particular assessment roll on
the unpaid balance from the date of confirmation of the roll to the first day
of July following; and the assessor shall levy and assess such amount in a
proper place on the "city tax roll" for that year.
(5-17-73, § 21.)
Sec. 17-23. Reassessment of invalid or defective assessments.
   Whenever the city council shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatever or if any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, the
city council shall have power to cause a new assessment to be made for the same
purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether the improvement or
any part thereof has been made or not and whether any part of the assessment
has been paid or not. All proceedings on such reassessment and for the
collection thereof shall be made in the same manner as provided for in the
original assessment. If any portion of the original assessment shall have been
paid and not refunded, it shall to that extent be deemed satisfied. If more
than the amount reassessed shall have been paid, the balance shall be refunded
to the person making such payment. (5-17-73, § 22.)
Sec. 17-24. Invalidity due to improper assessment procedure by city council.
   No special assessment shall be held invalid by any court by reason of the
failure of the city council to take any of the steps herein prescribed before
the assessment is ordered; provided, that the notice of hearing herein before
prescribed shall have been given and the hearing actually held and no
objections on the ground of such failure shall have been made; nor shall any
such special assessment be held invalid by reason of any default of the city or
its officers in the making of such assessment; provided, that the notice of the
confirmation of the assessments roll shall have been given and the hearing
thereof held and such objections shall not have been raised or urged at such
hearing. (5-17-73, § 23.)
Sec. 17-25. Effect on city lien of order vacating assessment.
   No judgement or decree or any act of the city council vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the city upon the premises
assessed for such amount as may be equitably charged against the same or as by
a regular mode of proceedings might have been lawfully assess thereon. (5-17-
73, § 24.)
Sec. 17-26. Collection by court action – Generally.
   At any time after sixty days after any special assessment has become due and
payable, such assessment may be collected by suit in the name of the city
against the person assessed by commencement of an action in any court having
jurisdiction of the amount. In every such action a declaration upon the common
courts for money paid shall be sufficient. The special assessment roll and the
certificate of the confirmation thereof endorsed thereon and the warrant for
the collection thereof shall be prima facie evidence of the regularity of all
the proceedings in making the assessment, and of the right of the city to
receive judgement therefor. (5-17-73, § 25.)
Sec. 17-27. Same – Judgements for property chargeable amounts where assessment
was improper.
   If in such court action it shall appear that by reason of any irregularity
or informality the assessment has not been properly made against the defendant
or the lot or premises sought to be charged, the court nevertheless, on proof
that the expense has been incurred by the city which is a proper charge against
the defendant or the lot or premises in question, shall render judgement for
the amount properly chargeable against such defendant or upon such lot or
premises. (5-17-73, § 26.)
Sec. 17-28. Same –Effect on lien created by chapter.
   The bringing of a court suit by the city for collection of an unpaid
assessment shall not be deemed a waiver of the lien created by this chapter and
the special assessment or of the right to enforce such lien in the manner
provided therefor. (5-17-73, § 27.)
Sec. 17-29. Written contracts in lieu of procedures of chapter.
   In the event that all persons or property owners to be affected by any
proposed improvement agree that such proposed improvement be made and that a
special assessment be levied in connection therewith, the city may, in lieu of
the procedure set forth in this chapter, enter into a written contract with all
of the persons or property owners affected thereby, which contract, when
properly approved and executed, shall operate as a complete special assessment
procedure; and the assessment shall be made in accordance with such contract.
(5-17-73, § 28.)
Sec. 17-30. Spreading of estimated costs for issuance of bonds; reassessment of
costs after completion of improvement.
   In cases where it is necessary for the city to issue special assessment
bonds to finance the property owner's share of a public improvement, the city
may hold the hearing required by this chapter and spread the estimated cost of
the proposed special assessment to provide security for such bonds.
   At such time as the public improvement is completed and actual costs plus a
reasonable charge for engineering, overhead and administration charges are
determined, the city council may reassess any additional cost in a supplemental
roll following the same procedures as outlined in this chapter. Should the
costs be less than originally estimated and assessed, credit shall be given
toward future installments and where assessments have been paid in full, cash
refunds shall be made; provided, that should any refund be less than five
percent of the amount special assessed, the refund shall not be refunded in
cash but credited to the city general fund.
(5-17-73, § 29.)
Sec. 17-31. Utilization of other procedures when local financing is available.
   It is the intention of this chapter to allow the city council to proceed
with public improvements when local financing is available and in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter do the necessary construction by contract
or force account, keeping accurate records of such costs incurred and prepare a
special assessment roll in the usual manner based on the total cost plus a
reasonable charge for engineering, administration and overhead. The total cost
or such portion of the total cost as the city council may determine shall then
be assessed equitably among the property owners involved in the special
assessment district either on a frontage, benefit or other legal manner as
provided for in this chapter. In this situation or situations of this type, the
assessor or board of special assessors, as the case may be, shall not prepare
the special assessment roll until the correct figure to be spread is presented
to him or them be the city manager. (5-17-73, § 30.)
Sec. 17-32. Deductions where improvements are over size, etc., to provide extra
capacity, etc.
   The city council may make deductions from the costs of special assessment
projects where it can be demonstrated that additional costs were incurred for
the improvement for over size or extra strength pipe, extra wide streets or
extra heavy construction to provide additional capacity or service over and
above what may be considered needed or normal for the neighborhood or district
involved. (5-17-73, § 31.)
Sec. 17-33. Revolving fund to finance owners' share or assessment.
   The city council may, from time to time, appropriate moneys from the general
fund to the Local Improvement Interest and Sinking Fund to provide a revolving
fund to finance the property owners' share of special assessments. (5-17-73, §
32.)
CHAPTER 18.
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
For charter provisions as to regulation of streets and sidewalks generally see
Char., §§ 2.2 (5) to 2.2 (7), 2.2(18).
As to setting fires or burning on streets and alleys, see § 9-12 of this Code.
As to deposit of refuse, etc., on streets, etc., see § 16-17.
Article I. In General
§ 18-1.   Spitting on or lettering sidewalks.
§ 18-2.   Designation and use of underground conduit territory.
§ 18-3.   Encroachments or obstructions generally.
§ 18-4.   Placing of building materials on street, sidewalk, etc.
§ 18-5.   Obstruction of gutters, ditches, etc.
§ 18-6.   Trees and shrubs – Trimming branches overhanging street or sidewalk.
§ 18-7.   Trees, plants and shrubs – General.
§ 18-8.   Erection of street name placards.
§ 18-9.   Removal, destruction, mutilation or defacement of street or avenue
signs.
§
18-10.   Violations and penalties; civil remedies.
Article II. Sidewalks, Crosswalks, Driveway Approaches and Curbs.
§
18-11.   Permits for construction or repair required.
§
18-12.   Same – Specifications and compliance therewith.
§
18-13.   Same – Expenses.
§
18-14.   Repairs – Expenses.
Article III. Excavations.
§ 18-18.   Permits – Required.
§ 18-19.   Same – Application.
§ 18-20.   Same – Issuance; fee.
§ 18-21.   Erection of barricades, etc.; removal or interference with
barricades, etc.
§ 18-22.   Conformity of work to permit; interference with pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, etc.
§ 18-23.   Restoration.
§ 18-24.   Notice of intent to excavate to corporations with equipment in
street; protection of pipes, poles, conditions, etc.
§ 18-25.   Indemnification of City.
   Article IV. Building Numbers.
§ 18-26.   System generally.
§ 18-27.   Streets to be used as basis; numbering system designations.
§ 18-28.   Assignment of numbers generally.
§ 18-29.   Streets and avenues not intersecting base.
§ 18-30.   Numbering where conformity with system cannot be obtained.
§ 18-31.   Designation of official number by clerk; display; size of figures.
§ 18-32.   Display of nonofficial number; removal, destruction, etc., of house
number.
   Article V. Private Streets.
§ 18-33.   Purpose
§ 18-34.   Definitions
§ 18-35.   Level of Design and Construction
§ 18-36.   Private Street Construction Permit Application and Approval
§ 18-37.   Site Plans and Construction Plans
§ 18-38.   Final Private Street Permit
§ 18-39.   Street Names
§ 18-40.   Maintenance and Repair
§ 18-41.   Design Standards for Streets Serving Two (2) Dwelling Units
§ 18-42.   Design Standards for Streets Serving Three (3) to Five (5) Dwelling
Units
§ 18-43.   Design Standards for Streets Serving More than Five (5) Dwelling
Units
§ 18-44.   Maximum Street Length
§ 18-45.   Easement Provisions
§ 18-46.   Street Location Adjustment
§ 18-47.   Commercial Industrial Private Streets
§ 18-48.   Applicability
§ 18-49.   Effective Date
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL.
Sec. 18-1. Spitting on or littering sidewalks.
   No person shall spit upon the sidewalks or leave any litter or unsightly
material thereon. (1-11-09, § 1.)
Sec. 18-2. Designation and use of underground conduit territory.
   All that part of Main Street situated between the intersections of Merchant
Avenue and Weaver Avenue is hereby declared to be and is designated as
underground and conduit territory in its use by the utility companies, and it
is declared to be unlawful to use this section of Main Street for the carrying
of telephone, electric light and all other wires in any other manner than by
means of an underground conduit, unless specifically authorized to do so by the
City Council. (12-13-15, § 1.)
For charter provisions as to use of streets and sidewalks by public utilities,
see Char. 2.2 (6), § 14.10.
For state law as to use of streets and sidewalks by public utilities generally,
see M.C.L.A. §§ 247.183 - 247.186, §§ 460.553 - 460.555.
Sec. 18-3. Encroachments or obstructions generally.
   Prohibited. Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person shall place
or cause to be placed any real or personal property, except United States
postal boxes and motor vehicles properly parked in designated parking spaces,
upon or over any street, alley, sidewalk or public right-of-way in all
districts of the city, as hereinafter defined, without first having obtained a
permit therefor from the City Manager or his/her designee. (Ord. No. O-20-05,
9-21-20)
Sec. 18-4. Placing of building materials on street, sidewalk, etc.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any
material for building purposes upon any sidewalk, street, alley or public
grounds within the city under a penalty as prescribed by section 1-6 after
being notified by the chief of police or any police officer to remove such
material; provided that the City Manager or his/her designee are authorized to
grant permission in writing to place and keep building materials in any places
mentioned as aforesaid; and provided, that such permission shall not extend to
a period beyond one (1) month from the time of granting the same, and shall not
authorize the obstruction of any sidewalk or crosswalk, and more than one-half
the driveway, opposite any lot. Any such permission may be revoked by the City
Manager or his/her designee.
   Any person to whom such permission shall be granted, as aforesaid, shall
cause all building material and rubbish arising from the same to be removed at
or before the time limited by the preceding paragraph or be subject to a
penalty as prescribed by section 1-6 for each day that such material shall
remain after the expiration of the time set out in the preceding paragraph.
(Ord. No. O-20-05, 9-21-20)
Sec. 18-5. Obstruction of gutters, ditches, etc.
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, with sand, gravel, dirt,
rubbish, filth or other substances, any sluice, gutter, ditch or watercourse in
the city in front of or adjoining any lot or premises owned or occupied by such
person. In case the owner or occupant of any such lot or premises, who shall
have caused such obstruction, shall refuse or neglect to remove such
obstruction within twenty-four (24) hours after being notified to do so by the
City Manager and his/her designee, it shall be the duty of the City Manager to
remove such sand, gravel, dirt, filth or other obstruction, and the expense and
cost of such removal shall be assessed against the property where such sluice,
gutter, ditch or watercourse may be situated, and such expense and cost plus a
reasonable administration fee shall be collected as a special assessment
thereon. (Ord. No. O-20-05, 9-21-20)
 
Sec. 18-6. Trees and shrubs – Trimming branches overhanging street or sidewalk.
   The owner of any lot or parcel of land fronting on any street in the city
shall trim or cause to be trimmed the branches from all trees in the street in
front of such land and from the trees on such land overhanging the street, so
as to leave a clear height of ten (10) feet above the surface of the sidewalk
and fourteen (14) feet above the surface of the street unobstructed by branches
of such trees. If any owner of such land shall refuse or fail to comply with
the requirements of this section, it shall be the duty of the City Manager to
cause such trees to be trimmed so as to comply with the provisions hereof, at
the expense of the owner of such land, and such expense, together with costs of
suit, shall be collected before a court having jurisdiction. (Ord. O-10-03, 5-
3-10)
Sec. 18-7. Trees and shrubs – Permits to plant or remove in street right-of-
ways.
   (1)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   Park trees: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all other areas owned by the City.
   Private tree: All trees within the city other than park trees and street
trees.
   Street tree: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying on the street right-of-way on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
   (2)   Duties generally of the City Manager and City Council. It shall be the
responsibility of the City Manager to develop and administer a plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of
street trees and park trees. Such plan will be reviewed and approved, from time
to time, by the City Council. The City Manager shall consider, investigate and
make findings, reports and recommendations upon any special matter or question
within the scope of this work.
   (3)   Official street tree species. The following list constitutes the
official street tree species for the city. No species other than those included
on this list may be planted as street trees without prior written approval of
the City Manager.
Small Trees                 Medium Trees            Large Trees   
Flowering Cherry, tree form Ginkgo Biloba           London Plane
varieties*
Flowering Crab, tree form   Red Oak                 Norway Maple**
varieties*
Bradford Pear               Ivory Silk Tree Lilac   Improved Elm+
                           Pin Oak                 Sugar Maple
                           Little Leaf Linden      Red Maple
                           Thornless Honey Locust* Zelkova - Green Vase
*   All varieties acceptable.
**   Not to be planted within 300 feet of any naturalized area. Only
“Emerald Queen,” “Emerald Lustre” and “Crimson King” cultivars are
allowed.
+   “Improved” meaning cultivars improved to be resistant to Dutch Elm
Disease.
 
   (4)   Street tree spacing. The spacing of street trees will be in accordance
with the three (3) species size classes listed in section 18-7 (3), and no
trees may be planted closer together than the following: Small trees, thirty
(30) feet; medium trees, forty (40) feet; and large trees, fifty (50) feet;
except in special plantings designed and approved for unusual effect.
   (5)   Distance of street trees from street corners. No street tree shall be
planted closer than thirty-five (35) feet from any street corner, measured from
the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines.
   (6)   Distance from curbs and sidewalks; planting of street trees on private
property. The distances trees may be planted from the curbs or curblines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the trees species size classes listed in
section 18-7(3), and trees must be centered between curbs or curblines and
streets.
   (7)   Utilities. No street trees other than those species listed as small
trees in section 18-7(3) may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet
of any overhead utility wire or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
   Any subsurface installation or work (water line, sewer line, transmission
line or other utility) within a ten- (10-) foot distance of a street tree or
park tree will be by “jack and bore” method, except and unless written approval
for open trenching is issued, in which case a charge for pruning, fertilization
or other preventative maintenance service will be applicable. This requirement
shall not apply to the repair or replacement of that portion of a private
utility lateral or service which is on private property.
   (8)   Care and maintenance of public trees; private planting in streets,
etc., prohibited. The City shall have the right to plant, replant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within
the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds,
as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the
symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   Trees may be removed which are not dead or infected with any disease when
such trees are of an undesirable species. The City Manager is hereby authorized
to direct the removal of any tree growing within any street, park or public
place, when such tree interferes with fire hydrants, sewer and water mains,
visibility of street intersections, traffic-control devices or construction
within street rights-of-way.
   No tree, plant or shrub shall be planted, replanted or removed within the
line of any street, alley, lane, square or public grounds by any private party,
except by written permission of the City.
   (9)   Topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any private
person to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
“Topping” is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to such a degree as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this section at the determination of the City Manager.
   (10)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground to a depth of six (6) inches.
   (11)   Sidewalk damage. Existing street trees that have caused an upheaval
or severe cracking of public sidewalks may be removed at such time that
sidewalk replacement is ordered by the City. The necessity for such removal
shall be based upon the overall vigor of the tree and the extent of conflict
with the sidewalk structure, as determined by the City.
   (12)   Interference with City personnel. It shall be unlawful for any person
to prevent, delay or interfere with the City, or any of its agents, while
engaging in and about the planting, replanting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying or removing of any street tree, park tree or tree on private grounds,
as authorized in this section.
   (13)   Private trees. Private trees are not regulated by the terms of this
section, except for the provisions of this subsection.
   The City shall have the right to cause the removal or proper treatment of
trees on private property, which harbor insects or disease and which constitute
a potential threat to other trees within the City. The City will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal or treatment shall be done by such
owners, at their own expense, within a reasonable period of time as prescribed
by the City, but in no case more than sixty (60) days after the date of service
or notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions,
the City shall have the authority to remove or treat such trees and charge the
cost of removal or of treatment to such owners.
   No tree shall be planted upon private property within (10) feet of any fire
hydrant or within three (3) feet of the right-of-way line of any street, alley,
lane, square or public ground.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the view
of any intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of fourteen (14)
feet above the surface of the street and ten (10) feet above the sidewalk. Such
owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed
limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public using streets and
sidewalks. The City shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the visibility of any traffic-control device
or sign.
   (14)   Arbor Day. The City Council shall annually celebrate Arbor Day. The
Council may provide trees and shrubs for its citizens at reduced cost depending
upon the demand for such trees and shrubs. (Ord. of 1-15-90; Ord. O-10-03, 5-3-
10; Ord. No. O-20-05, 9-21-20.)
Editor’s note – An ordinance of Jan. 15, 1990, repealed 18-7 and enacted a new
18-7 in lieu thereof with subsections designated 18.7-118.7-15. At the
discretion of the editor, and in order to maintain Code format, said
subsections have been redesignated as (1)-(15) or 18-7 hereon.
Sec. 18-8. Erection of street name placards.
   The City Manager shall place at the intersection of all streets and avenues
in a conspicuous manner a suitable placard, containing the name of the street
or avenue. (8-11-13, § 8.)
Sec. 18-9. Removal, destruction, mutilation or defacement of street or avenue
signs.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take down, destroy, mutilate or
deface in any manner any street or avenue sign. (8-11-13, § 9.)
Sec. 18-10. Violations and penalties; civil remedies.
   Violation of this Article shall constitute a civil infraction, per Chapter
5.1 Civil Infractions of the City Code. The City may also seek such civil
relief as is available to it in law or equity. (Ord. No. O-20-05, 9-21-20)
ARTICLE II. SIDEWALKS, CROSSWALKS, DRIVEWAY APPROACHES AND CURBS*
   * Charter reference – Construction and repair of sidewalks, 2.2(16.) without
first having obtained and having in force a permit as hereinafter provided. (8-
26-57, 2.)
Sec. 18-11. Same – Specifications and compliance therewith.
   No person shall construct or repair any sidewalk, crosswalk, driveway
approach or curb except in accordance with the line, grade, slope and
specifications established by the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall set
proper grade and line stakes for such walks whenever such sidewalk, crosswalk,
driveway approach or curb shall have been permitted or ordered. Specifications
for all sidewalks shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk as
established by the City Engineer. (11-18-85.)
Sec. 18-12. Same – Specifications and compliance therewith.
   No person shall construct or repair any sidewalk, crosswalk, driveway
approach or curb except in accordance with the line, grade, slope and
specifications established by the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall set
proper grade and line stakes for such walks whenever such sidewalk, crosswalk,
driveway approach or curb shall have been permitted or ordered. Specifications
for all sidewalks shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk as
established by the City Engineer. (11-18-85.)
Sec. 18-13. Same – Expenses.
   All sidewalks in the city shall be built, at the expense of the owner or
owners of the lots or premises adjoining or abutting upon such sidewalks;
provided, that in the discretion of the City Council a part of the expense of
constructing any new sidewalk may be born by the City and paid from the general
fund. The proportion is to be so paid by the City and conditions, under which
payment is to be made, shall be determined by resolution of the City Council.
(11-18-85.)
Sec. 18-14. Repairs – Expenses.
   The City Council shall determine the necessity for repair of all sidewalks
in the city and the costs of such repairs shall be born by the City. (11-18-
85.)
ARTICLE III. EXCAVATIONS.
Sec. 18-18. Permits – Required.
   Unless acting under a contract with the City, it shall by unlawful for any
person other than a duly authorized City official or employee in the course of
his employment to make or cause or permit to be made any excavation or opening
in or under the surface or pavement of any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place within the limits of the city
Sec. 18-19. Same – Application.
   Any person, desiring to procure a specific permit as herein provided shall
file with the City Manager, at least twenty-four hours before the time proposed
to begin such work, a written application on a blank form prepared and provided
by the City. Such application shall state the name and address of the
applicant, the name of the street, alley, sidewalk or public place in or under
which it is desired to make the excavation or opening, the kind of pavement or
sidewalk thereon, the purpose, size and location, as near as can be determined
of the proposed excavation or opening and the name, address, lot and
subdivision of the person whose benefit the work is to be done. Such
application shall also describe the time within which the work in such
application shall be completed. When required by the City Manager, the
application shall be accompanied by a plat or pencil tracing or sketch showing
the location, character and dimensions of the proposed excavation or opening
for the installation of new work or the location and character of the
alterations involving the location of pipes, poles, conduits, wires or other
conductors. (8-26-57, § 3.)
Sec. 18-20. Same – Issuance; fee.
   The city, upon the filing of the application , may, in its discretion, issue
a permit which issuance shall constitute an agreement by the applicant with the
City that applicant shall restore that portion of the premises not included
within a traveled roadway to its original condition and further, that the
applicant shall pay all costs of restoration of the portion of the premises
within the traveled roadway in the manner hereinafter set forth. (8-26-57, §
4.)
Sec. 18-21. Erection of barricades, etc.; removal or interference with
barricades, etc.
   Any person making or causing to be made an excavation or opening in any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place or within five feet of the line
of any street or public place shall, at all times that the same remains open or
danger exists therefrom, keep such excavation or opening fenced or barricaded
and properly lighted at night so as to warn all persons of such excavation or
opening and all obstructions. No unauthorized person shall remove, extinguish
or in any other way interfere with the barricades, flares, lanterns or other
danger signals placed for the protection of excavations or obstructions. (8-26-
57, § 5.)
Sec. 18-22. Conformity of work to permit; interference with pedestrian and
vehicular traffic, etc.
   In no case shall a person remove a greater area of surface and at no other
location than that specified in the application for permit; provided, that at
the time of actually doing the work if it shall be necessary to remove a
greater area of surface than originally applied for, the applicant shall first
notify and procure the consent of the City Manager to do so upon the express
condition that he will, before noon of the following business day, file a
supplementary application for the making of any additional excavation.
   All work shall be performed in such a way as to cause a minimum of
inconvenience and restriction to both pedestrian and vehicular traffic. No dirt
or other material shall be placed on sidewalks. All work shall be prosecuted so
as not to interfere with any access to any fire houses, fire hydrants and
United States mail boxes. (8-26-57, § 6.)
Sec. 18-23. Restoration.
   All excavations shall be restored to their original condition. All that
portion of the excavation not within the traveled portion of the roadway,
sidewalk or pavement shall be restored by the applicant in a manner
satisfactory to the City Manager. Failure of applicant to restore such portion
of such excavation to its original condition in a manner satisfactory to the
City Manager shall constitute a violation of this article and shall subject
applicant to the penalties for violation hereinafter set forth.
   All excavations made within the traveled portion of a roadway, sidewalk or
pavement may be restored to their original condition. All backfill and surface
replacement shall be performed under the supervision of the City Manager. The
applicant shall be required to pay all the expenses incurred by the City for
furnishing such material, doing such work and taking such means as in the sole
discretion of the City Manager shall be required to properly restore and secure
against settlement of the street and sidewalk, pavement, curb and gutter
necessary to be replaced in consequence of such excavation, opening or
disturbance.
   Failure of the applicant to pay all costs incurred in the restoration of the
site to its original condition when due shall be considered a violation of this
article and shall subject applicant to the penalty for violation hereinafter
set forth. Payment for the restoration of the excavation to its original
condition shall be made within thirty days after billing date by the City. The
sum or sums of money collected for restoration work shall be paid into the City
treasury.
   All excavations in the traveled portion of any roadway, sidewalk or pavement
shall be replaced by the applicant and shall conform to the specifications as
may be adopted from time to time by the City Council and listed on the permit
for such excavation. (8-26-57, § 7.)
Sec. 18-24. Notice of intent to excavate to corporations with equipment in
street; protection of pipes, poles, conduits, etc.
   The person to whom a permit is granted shall give notice in writing to any
corporation whose pipes, poles, mains or conduits are laid in the street about
to be disturbed by such excavations at least twenty-four hours before
commencing such excavation and shall at his own expense sustain, secure and
protect such pipes, poles, mains or conduits from injury and replace and pack
the earth with the same sod that has been removed, loosened or disturbed under
or around so that they shall be well and substantially supported. If any person
shall fail to sustain, secure or protect such pipes, poles, mains or conduits
from injury or to replace and pack the earth under and around them, the
provisions of this section will require that the same may be done by the
corporation to whom the same may belong and the cost thereof and any damage
sustained by such corporation thereby shall be paid by such person, and in
default thereof, such corporation may maintain an action against him therefor.
(8-26-57, § 8.)
Sec. 18-25. Indemnification of City.
   The person to whom such permit is granted shall do no injury in any street,
avenue, alley, lane, sidewalk, park or other public place or to any shade
trees, shrubs, lawns, concrete paving or sidewalk or other like improvements or
in any manner disturb or interfere with any sewer, water main, pipe or conduit
or any other public or private appliances now or hereafter constructed by any
authorized persons and shall fully indemnify and save harmless the City from
any and all claims or damages for which the City might be made or become liable
to pay by reason of construction, maintaining or repairing or operation of such
poles, conduits, wires, mains, pipes or any other apparatus connected therewith
or otherwise arising from the use or possession of any of the rights and
privileges granted or from any neglect on the part of such person, or of his
employees to comply with the provisions of this article or ordinances of the
City and especially shall indemnify the City and assume all liability and
damages which may arise, come or occur to the City from any injury to persons
or property by reason of the doing of any work herein mentioned or the neglect
of any person or his employees to comply with the provisions of this article or
other ordinances relative to the use of streets or other public places,
especially as to the putting up of lights or barriers at or around excavations;
and the acceptance by any person of any permit under the provisions of this
article shall be an agreement by it to pay the City any sum of money for which
the City may become liable from or by reason of such injury. Such person shall
be given written notice of any and all forms of claims, suits and demands filed
with the City within thirty days after receiving such claims, etc., and shall
be given an opportunity to defend such claims, etc. (8-26-57, § 9.)
   * Charter reference – Construction and repair of sidewalks, 2.2(16.) without
first having obtained and having in force a permit as hereinafter provided. (8-
26-57, 2.)
   Editor’s note – Ordinance No. O-20-05, adopted Sept. 21, 2020, enacted a new
18-10 in Article I and redesignated the sections of Article II from 18-10–18-13
to 18-11–18-14.
ARTICLE IV. BUILDING NUMBERS
For charter provisions as to building numbers, see Char., 2.2 (22)
Sec. 18-26. System generally.
   The houses and buildings of the streets and avenues of the city shall be
numbered by the "Philadelphia" or "block system." (8-11-13, § 1.)
Sec. 18-27. Streets to be used as basis; numbering system designations.
   The streets and avenues to be used as the basis for such numbering shall be
Main Street and Division Avenue extended and beginning at the base; the blocks
shall be numbered by the decimal system in units of one hundred and designated
as north, south, east or west. (8-11-13, § 2.)
Sec. 18-28. Assignment of numbers generally.
   One number shall be assigned for each twenty-two feet as nearly as may be.
The houses or buildings in each block shall be numbered commencing with the
number of the block and thereafter by adding to the number of the block the
number of the house or building. Even numbers shall be used on the easterly and
southerly sides and odd numbers on the westerly and northerly sides of streets
proceeding from the base. (8-11-13, § 3.)
Sec. 18-29. Streets and avenues not intersecting base.
   In streets and avenues which do not intersect with the base the block shall
be numbered to correspond with the blocks in the base parallel thereto. (8-11-
13, § 4.)
Sec. 18-30. Numbering where conformity with system cannot be obtained.
   If in any case the numbers cannot be designated according to the system as
herein outlined, the City Clerk shall report the same to the City Manager,
together with his recommendations, and the City Manager shall thereupon provide
for the official numbering thereof, and such provision shall be properly noted
on the map or plat. (8-11-13, § 6.)
Sec. 18-31. Designation of official number by clerk; display; size of figures.
   The City Clerk shall designate the official numbers for all houses or
buildings within the city. Such numbers shall be of sufficient size and
displayed in such a manner that they are easily read from the street. (8-11-13,
7.)
Sec. 18-32. Display of nonofficial number; removal, destruction, etc., of house
number.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display any number other than the
official number upon any house or building or to take down, destroy, mutilate
or deface in any manner any house or building number. (8-11-13, 9.)
ARTICLE V. PRIVATE STREETS
Sec. 18-33. Purpose.
   It is the intent of this Ordinance to permit the development of private
streets as an alternative to public streets provided said private streets are
properly designed, constructed and maintained so as to accommodate the movement
of vehicular traffic, including emergency vehicles, in a safe and efficient
manner and to ensure that connection of private streets with public streets is
accomplished according to the requirements of the agency having jurisdiction
over said public streets.
   Private streets are permitted in all zoning districts subject to the design,
construction and maintenance standards of this Ordinance. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-34. Definitions.
a.   Dwelling Units. When used in this article, the term Dwelling Units shall
mean all single family residences. For example: a building containing two
separate living areas serving two separate single families shall be deemed to
be two Dwelling Units under the terms of this article. (7-7-03)
b.   Private Street. When used in this article, the term Private Street shall
mean all means of access to any residence if said means of access is serving
two or more dwelling units regardless of length or width. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-35. Level of Design and Construction
   The minimum design and construction level of private streets as outlined in
Sections 18-40, 18-41 and 18-42 of this Article shall be based on the number of
lots and/or parcels to be served. Generally, as the number of said lots and/or
parcels increases resulting in greater demands on the street, the design and
construction requirements also increase. If the number of lots and/or parcels
to be served by an existing private street increases, said street shall be
upgraded throughout its entirety to comply with the requirements of this
Article. The upgrade shall be based on the number of new parcels to be created,
plus all existing parcels to be served by the private street. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-36. Private Street Construction Permit Application and Approval
   The owner shall submit an application for a private street permit, together
with the application review fee as determined from time to time by the City
Council, to the City Clerk. The application package shall include: (7-7-03)
a.   A written description of the proposed development to be served;
b.   Detailed site plans and construction plans; and
c.   A detailed Maintenance Agreement (hereinafter "Agreement") describing how
the costs of operation and maintenance will be addressed. In the event said
costs are to be apportioned and paid for by benefiting property owners, the
Agreement shall include a detailed description of the procedures for
administering the same.
   The proposed private street shall meet the requirements for Site Plan Review
by the City Planning Commission (hereinafter "Commission") as found in this
Article, provided, however, private streets proposed for projects subject to
final review and approval by the City Council (hereinafter "Council") shall be
subject to review and approval by the Council after receipt of a recommendation
from the Commission. In reviewing the application, the Commission and the
Council shall consider the impact of the proposed development on adjacent
properties, whether the health, safety and general welfare of persons or
property using or affected by the private street will be adequately protected,
and whether the private street will adversely affect the long-term development
policies of the City of Fremont (hereinafter "City".) An architect, engineer or
other person will be consulted if deemed necessary. If the Commission, or the
Council in the case of those projects subject to review and approval by the
Council, recommends approval of the application, the Zoning Administrator shall
issue a private street construction permit to the owner. No construction shall
begin on the private street or on adjacent properties that depend on the
private street for access until the private street construction permit has been
issued. The owner shall allow the City to enter the property for purposes of
reviewing construction progress for compliance with the approved site plan and
construction drawings. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-37. Site Plans and Construction Plans
   A site plan and construction plan showing the proposed location, adjacent
properties, proposed street grades, drainage and proposed improvements shall be
prepared by a registered engineer or registered land surveyor and shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator as part of the private street
construction permit application and approval. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-38. Final Private Street Permit
   Upon completion of construction, the applicant shall have its street design
surveyor or engineer inspect the private street improvements to verify
compliance with the approved site plan and construction plan. The owner shall
correct any deficiencies identified during either an interim or final review
inspection. Upon final review and approval of the completed private street
improvements, the professional engineer or professional surveyor shall provide
the City Clerk with written certification that the street has been constructed
according to the approved designed plans. The certification shall be signed by
the engineer or surveyor and shall contain the seal of same. After receipt of
the construction certification, the City Clerk shall issue a final private
street permit to the owner. Zoning permits for construction on properties
served by the private street shall not be issued until the City issues the
final private street permit. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-39. Street Names
   All streets serving more than two dwellings shall be given a name approved
by the City and the Newaygo County Road Commission. Approved street signs shall
be placed at each street intersection. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-40. Maintenance and Repair
   Maintenance, repair and liability for private streets shall be the
responsibility of benefiting property owners with access to the private street
and not the responsibility or liability of the City, city staff or consultants
used by the City in the review and approval of private streets. The developer
shall establish, by appropriate deed provisions, an association that shall be
responsible for street maintenance and repair and that shall have the authority
to apportion and collect the cost of maintenance and repair from benefiting
property owners. A Private Street Maintenance Agreement (hereinafter
"Agreement") shall be recorded at the Newaygo County Office of the Register of
Deeds. The recording shall be a separate recording from the deed, but the deed
shall also have attached to it a copy of the Agreement or otherwise give notice
of the Agreement. All property owners subject to payment for maintenance of the
private street shall receive notice of the above Agreement. Benefiting
properties must be identified in the Agreement and any change in benefiting
properties must be reflected in a revised agreement. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-41. Design Standards for Streets Serving Two (2) Dwelling Units
   Private streets serving only two (2) dwelling units shall meet the following
design standards: (7-7-03)
a.   All private streets shall have a minimum forty-foot (40') wide right-of-
way easement granted to the adjacent property owner(s).
b.   Be constructed in a good and workmanlike manner upon and parallel to the
centerline of the right-of-way easement granted to the adjacent property
owners.
c.   Be constructed so as to sufficiently control stormwater runoff and permit
effective stormwater drainage, such as by means of ditches constructed parallel
to and on either side of the drive, by sloping the sides of the drive from the
center thereof, or by other effective methods.
d.   Have a firmly compacted base with the following cross-sections as
specified by the City depending on the choice of any of the two permitted types
of driving surfaces:
   1.   Asphalt:   Six inches (6") of sand
      Six inches (6") of gravel
      Two inches (2") of asphalt placed as two (2) layers
   2.   Concrete:   Six inches (6") of sand
      Six inches (6") of concrete
e.   Have that portion of a private street located within any public street
right-of-way surfaced with either asphalt or concrete as previously specified.
f.   Have a finished driving surface width of not less than fourteen feet
(14').
g.   Be constructed over adequate culverts where necessary.
h.   Shall not be expanded to service more than two (2) dwelling units without
meeting the requirements of this Article for private streets serving more than
two (2) dwelling units.
Sec. 18-42. Design Standards for Streets Serving Three (3) to Five (5) Dwelling
Units
   Private streets serving three (3) to five (5) dwelling units shall meet the
following design standards: (7-7-03)
a.   Have a minimum sixty-six foot (66') wide right-of-way easement granted to
the adjacent property owner(s).
b.   Be constructed in a good and workmanlike manner upon and parallel to the
centerline of the right-of-way easement granted to the adjacent property owner
(s).
c.   Be constructed so as to sufficiently control stormwater runoff and permit
effective stormwater drainage such as by means of ditches constructed parallel
to and on either side of the street, by sloping the sides of the street from
the center thereof or by other effective methods.
d.   The driving surface shall be either asphalt or concrete, with firmly
compacted base with the following cross-sections as specified by the City
depending on the type of driving surface:
   1.   Asphalt:   Six inches (6") of sand
      Six inches (6") of gravel
      Three inches (3") of asphalt placed as two (2) layers
   2.   Concrete:   Six inches (6") of sand
      Six inches (6") of concrete
e.   Have a finished driving surface width of not less than sixteen feet (16').
f.   Be constructed over adequate culverts where necessary.
g.   All culs-de-sac must terminate with turnarounds, have a right-of-way
radius of fifty-five feet (55') and a finished driving surface turning radius
of forty-five feet (45').
h.   Shall not be expanded to service more than three (3) to five (5) dwelling
units without meeting the requirements of this Article for private streets
serving more than three (3) to five (5) dwelling units.
Sec. 18-43. Design Standards for Streets Serving More than Five (5) Dwelling
Units
   Private streets serving more than five (5) dwelling units shall meet the
following design standards: (7-7-03)
a.   Have a minimum sixty-six foot (66') wide right-of-way easement granted to
the adjacent property owner(s).
b.   Be constructed in a good and workmanlike manner upon and parallel to the
centerline of the right-of-way easement granted to the adjacent property owner
(s).
c.   Culverts shall be placed at all natural drainage courses or other
waterways. Culvert sizes and grades shall be determined using the appropriate
storm runoff calculations formula. Materials for culverts shall also conform to
the City's specifications. Where the placement of underground storm sewers is
determined necessary by the City Engineer, the developer shall receive approval
of the City Engineer of all designs, materials and methods of installation.
d.   The developer shall receive the approval of the City Engineer of the
layout of private streets in respect to their location, intersections, culs-de-
sac, vertical street alignment, street grades, street signs, horizontal curves,
curb openings at intersecting streets and other aspects as determined by the
City Engineer.
e.   The driving surface shall be either asphalt or concrete, with a firmly
compacted base with the following cross-sections as specified by the City
depending on the type of driving surface:
   1.   Asphalt:   Twelve inches (12") of sand
      Six inches (6") of gravel
      Three inches (3") of asphalt placed as two (2) layers
   2.   Concrete:   Twelve inches (12") of sand
      Six inches (6") of concrete
f.   Have concrete curb and gutter with a minimum width of eighteen inches
(18") as specified by the City with a finished driving width of thirty-two feet
(32') from face of curb to face of curb.
g.   All culs-de-sac must terminate with turnarounds having a right-of-way
radius of at least fifty-five feet (55') and a turning radius of forty-five
feet (45').
h.   Have a minimum five-foot (5') wide concrete sidewalk on at least one side
of the street, placement and design of which are subject to prior City
approval.
Sec. 18-44. Maximum Street Length
   In no case shall the length of a private street exceed eight hundred feet
(800') unless secondary, intersecting, streets connect to the private street at
intervals of no less than eight hundred feet (800'). Secondary streets may be
public or private and shall be of comparable or better condition than the
private street under application. Secondary streets shall provide an alternate
means of access to the local public street system. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-45. Easement Provisions
   Throughout its length, the right-of-way for private streets shall contain
easement provisions for the aboveground and underground placement of (essential
service) utility and energy lines and mains. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-46. Street Location Adjustment
   The Commission, with the concurrence of the City Engineer, may permit
adjustments in the required placement of the improved portion of a street
within a street easement if said placement would result in the protection of
mature trees, water bodies or other natural features and would not pose a
threat to the health, safety or welfare of adjoining property owner(s). (7-7-
03)
Sec. 18-47. Commercial Industrial Private Streets
   All private streets developed and/or used for commercial and/or industrial
land purposes shall comply with all public street requirements pursuant to the
City of Fremont Code. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-48. Applicability
   This ordinance will not be applied retroactively and will take effect as
indicated below. (7-7-03)
Sec. 18-49. Effective Date
   This Ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days after publication thereof,
said effective date being July 23, 2003. (7-7-03)
CHAPTER 19.
SUBDIVISION OF LAND
For Charter provisions as to platting of subdivisions, see Char. 2.2(20). As to
Planning Commission, see Char. 7.8.
For state law as to subdivision of land generally, see Michigan Statutes
Annotated (MSA), §§ 560.101 et seq. As to city planning, see 2-26 to 2-28 of
this Code. As to zoning, see Chap. 22.
   Article I: In General
§ 19-1.      Definitions
§ 19-2.      Purpose of Chapter
§ 19-3.      Interpretation and Application of Chapter Generally
§ 19-4.      Administration Generally
§ 19-5.      Applicability of Chapter to Parcels of Land over Ten Acres in Area
§ 19-6.      Density of Development; Service Areas Map; Service Areas Defined
§ 19-7.      Compliance Generally
§ 19-8.      Penalty; Each Lot Sold Deemed a Separate Offense
Article II: Regulations Applicable to all Subdivisions
§ 19-9.      Conformity to Master Plan and Zoning Map
§ 19-10.   Streets
§ 19-11.   Lots
§ 19-12.   Block Lengths; Outlet Intervals; Pedestrian Crosswalks
§ 19-13.   Drainage; Public Utility Easements
§ 19-14.   Proposed Parks, Playgrounds, Schools or other Public Uses
§ 19-15.   Monuments
§ 19-16.   Services and Improvements in Business and Industrial Subdivisions
§ 19-17.   Approval Generally; Re-Filing after Disapproval
§ 19-18.   Performance Guarantees
§ 19-19.   Applicability of State Law
§ 19-20.   Establishment of Inspection Fees, Requirements, etc.
   Article III: Utility Extensions
§ 19-21.   Requests for Service -Generally
§ 19-22.   Same - Referral to Planning Commission
§ 19-23.   Installation Costs and Service Charges
   Article IV: Procedures
§ 19-24.   Sketch Plats - Minor Subdivisions
§ 19-25.   Same - Major Subdivisions
§ 19-26.   Same - Approval
§ 19-27.   Preliminary Plats - Submission to Clerk; Filing Fees; Forwarding of
Copies; Review; Presence of Subdivider at Commission Meetings
§ 19-28.   Same - Preliminary Approval; Tentative Approval; Tentative
Guarantees; Final Submissions
§ 19-29.   Same - Final Approval; Improvements Generally; Improvement
Inspections; Sureties, Performance Bonds, Guarantees, etc.
§ 19-30.   Final Plats - Submission; Review; Approval; Forwarding of Copies;
Recording Generally
§ 19-31.   Same - Status of Property prior to Recordation; Sales prior to
Recordation
§ 19-32.   Waiver of Improvement Time Limits
§ 19-33.   Alteration of Approved Lots
§ 19-34.   Unnumbered Outlots
Article V: Plat Details
§ 19-35.   Major Subdivision Sketch Plat
§ 19-36.   Preliminary Plat
§ 19-37.   Final Plat
   Article VI: Lot Sites
§ 19-38.   Classification of Subdivisions; Increase in Lot Area as Public
Services Decrease; Applicability of Zoning Regulations
§ 19-39.   Complete Utility Subdivisions
§ 19-40.   Partial or Potential Utility Subdivisions in Primary Service Areas
§ 19-41.   Private Service Subdivisions
§ 19-42.   Partial or Potential Utility Subdivisions in Secondary Service Areas
Article VII: Required Improvements in Major Subdivisions
§ 19-43.   Complete Utility Subdivisions
§ 19-44.   Partial or Potential Utility Subdivisions
§ 19-45.   Variation of Sidewalk Requirements where all Lots are over One
Hundred Feet (100') Wide
§ 19-46.   Additional Costs of Improvement Increased to Meet Needs of other
Areas
   Article VIII: Variances
§ 19-47.   Grounds Generally; Items to be Considered by Governing Body
§ 19-48.   Necessary Conditions
§ 19-49.   Petition; Commission Recommendation; Approval of Variance
Disapproved by Commission
Article IX: Site Condominium Projects
§ 19-50.   Definitions
§ 19-51.   Purpose and Scope
§ 19-52.   Administration
§ 19-53.   General Requirements
§ 19-54.   Scheduling of Fees
§ 19-55.   Review of Preliminary Plans by the Planning Commission
§ 19-56.   Review and Approval of Final Plans by City Council
§ 19-57.   Construction in Compliance with Approved Final Site Condominium
Project Plan
§ 19-58.   Review and Approval of Changes to Approved Final Site Condominium
Project Plan
§ 19-59.   Incorporation of Approved Provisions in Master Deed
§ 19-60.   Approval Effective for One Year
§ 19-61.   Variances
§§ 19-62 - 19-69.   Reserved for Future Use
   ARTICLE I: GENERAL
Sec. 19-1. Definitions
For the purpose of this Chapter, words and phrases shall be defined as set
forth by M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., and as follows:
Commission. The Fremont Planning Commission (hereinafter "Commission".)
Complete utility subdivision. A subdivision in which arrangements have been
made for both water service and sewage disposal by public utility systems and
for the other improvements required by this Chapter.
Governing Body. The Fremont City Council (hereinafter "Council".)
Local or minor street. A public street primarily serving abutting neighborhood
properties.
Major street. A street designated as a major street on the adopted Master Plan
of the City.
Major subdivision. The creation of a new lot or lots by platting; the creation
of more than four new lots of ten acres or less within a ten-year period from
one parcel of property by transfer or metes and bounds description; or the
creation of a new street whether by the owner or required by the Council.
Minor subdivision. The combination of existing parcels into fewer lots; the
alteration of a lot line not changing the number of lots; or the creation of
one or more new parcels of property on an existing street by transfer or metes
and bounds description. A minor subdivision shall not include new or resulting
lots of more than ten acres or lots defined as a major subdivision.
Partial utility subdivision. A subdivision in which arrangements have been made
for either water service or sewage disposal by a public utility system, but not
both, and for the other improvements required by this Chapter.
Potential utility subdivision. A subdivision in which required public water or
sewage disposal by public utility systems cannot be provided by the City at the
time of platting, but where the other improvements required by this Chapter are
provided.
Private service subdivision. A subdivision located in an area in which neither
public water nor sewage disposal by a public utility system is furnished or
contemplated.
Public utility system. A water or sewer system owned and operated by the City
or a community utility system approved by the City. (5/3/71, § 2.1)
Sec. 19-2. Purpose of Chapter
   It is the intent of this Chapter to:
·   Regulate the subdivision of land
·   Further the orderly layout and development of the City
·   Provide for and regulate the economical extension of utility services,
streets and other necessary land improvements
·   Require that land be suitable and suitably improved for building sites
·   Provide for adequate drainage
·   Prevent the premature development of land
·   Provide for proper ingress and egress to lots
·   Promote proper surveying, monuments and legal descriptions
·   Provide for safe and convenient traffic circulation and traffic movement
·   Insure against the creation of unsafe or undesirable conditions
·   Conserve the value of property
·   Regulate the density of development where utility services are not provided
for the protection of the public health
·   Conserve natural features
·   Carry out the purpose and intent of the City Master Plan and Chapter 22
·   Carry out the purpose and intent of M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
·   Establish rules and procedures for the process of subdivision under said
act
·   Provide for the adoption of improvement standards
·   Provide penalties for the violations of this Chapter, and
·   Provide for the variation of these rules and requirements. (5/3/71, § 1.3)
Sec. 19-3. Interpretation and Application of Chapter Generally
In their interpretation and application the provisions of this Chapter shall be
held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of public health,
safety, convenience and general
welfare. It shall be administered to insure orderly growth and development and
to conserve and adequately provide for streets, utilities and other services
and other services in the city and its surrounding urbanizing area. (5-13-71, §
1.2)
For state law as to authority of city to impose stricter requirements than
imposed by state law, see M.C.L.A. § 560.259.
Sec. 19-4. Administration Generally
The Commission, City Manager and the Council shall administer this Chapter. The
rules, regulations and standards imposed by this Chapter shall be considered to
be the minimum requirements for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City, and in interpreting and applying them
primary consideration shall be given to these factors. (5/3/71, § 10.1)
Sec. 19-5. Applicability of Chapter to Parcels of Land over Ten Acres in Area
This Chapter shall not apply to land divisions resulting in parcels of land
which are over ten (10) acres in area unless a new street is required to
provide public access as set forth in Chapter 22. (5/3/71, § 1.4)
Sec. 19-6. Density of development; Service Areas Map; Service Areas Defined
The density of all future subdivision development shall be directly related to
service areas shown on the service areas map as primary, secondary, industrial,
industrial reserve, lake and private service area. Such map is incorporated
into and made a part of this Chapter.
Primary service areas are those wherein the City provides or intends to provide
both public sewer and public water services.
Secondary service areas are those which are now provided with or wherein the
City intends to make available or provide either public sewer or public water
service at some time in the more distant future.
Industrial service areas are those wherein the City intends to make available
or provide public sewer and public water services only to uses conforming to
manufacturing zone requirements.
Industrial reserve service areas are those wherein the City anticipates the
long-range need for industrial sewer and water service but in which such
service is not now economically possible.
Lake service areas are those wherein the City anticipates the need for sewer
service to avoid lake water pollution problems but where no plans are
formulated to make such service possible.
Private service areas are those wherein the City has no intent or desire to
make available or provide either sewer or water services within the reasonably
near future. (5/3/71, § 1.5)
Sec. 19-7. Compliance Generally
After June 2, 1971 no new lot of ten (10) acres or less in area shall be
created within the City unless the provisions of Article IV of this Chapter are
complied with. The City Assessor shall report all metes and bounds or other
description transfers not complying with Article IV of this Chapter to the City
Manager for appropriate remedy or action. All new lots so created shall meet or
exceed the requirements of the zoning regulations. (5/3/71, § 1.6)
Sec. 19-8. Penalty; Each Lot Sold Deemed a Separate Offense
If any person transfers or sells any portion of an existing parcel of land
without complying with the regulations of this Chapter or if any person
violates any provision of this Chapter, such person shall be subject to a fine
as determined by resolution of the city council or to imprisonment for not more
than thirty (30) days, and each parcel, plot or lot so disposed of shall be
deemed a separate violation. (5/3/71, § 10.3)
ARTICLE II: REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SUBDIVISIONS
Sec. 19-9. Conformity to Master Plan and Zoning Map
All subdivisions shall conform to the provisions and conditions of the Master
Plan and zoning map for future development of the City and surrounding area.
(5/3/71, § 8.1)
Sec. 19-10. Streets
All streets shall conform in direction and alignment with the Master Plan and
shall connect with existing streets without jogs or sharp angles.
a.   Curves. Curving minor streets shall have a minimum inside right-of-way
(hereinafter "ROW") radius of one hundred feet (100'). Such minimum shall be
two hundred feet (200') on collector streets and three hundred feet (300') for
major streets.
b.   Rights-of-way. Local street ROW shall be sixty-six feet (66') in width.
Major street ROW shall be at least one hundred feet (100') in width or fifty
feet (50') from the centerline. Where permitted or required, alley or utility
ROW shall be at least twenty feet (20') in width.
c.   Stub or outlet streets. Stub streets or outlets to adjacent undeveloped
property shall be fully improved by the subdivider, including drainage and
utilities as required by Section 19-43 or 19-45 as applicable.
d.   Dead-end streets. Dead-end streets shall not exceed eight hundred feet
(800') in length unless a paved outlet street is provided to adjacent property,
which will eventually make a dead-end street so conform. There shall be a turn-
around roadway with a minimum outside curb radius of forty-five feet (45') and
a street property line diameter of at least one hundred ten (110') feet at the
closed end unless the Commission approves the use of a "T"- or "Y"-shaped
turning area.
e.   Reserve strips. Reserve strips along major streets or bodies of water may
be required by the Commission to be dedicated to the City to prohibit access
upon the major street or body of water from an approved lot.
f.   Street names. All street names shall be subject to the approval of the
Council.
g.   Offsets. Offsetting at an intersection is prohibited unless the
centerlines thereof are offset at least one hundred twenty-five feet (125').
(5/3/71, § 8.2)
For state law as to authority of city to set requirements for streets, see
M.C.L.A. § 560.182. As to state law requirements for streets, see M.C.L.A. §
560.181.
Sec. 19-11. Lots
Every lot shall face upon a dedicated street accepted by the City and shall
have at least forty feet (40') of lot width at the ROW line.
a.   Lot depth. No lot shall be less than one hundred twenty-five feet (125')
in depth at any point.
b.   Shape. No lot shall be of such a shape as to require a variance of zoning
regulations.
c.   Double frontage. No lot shall be bounded on opposite sides by streets
except that on a major street the Commission may require that abutting lots
face upon a minor street and that a reserve strip be provided to prohibit
access upon such major street.
d.   Major street frontage. No lot may be platted upon a major street unless it
has a frontage of at least one hundred ten feet (110') along the major street
ROW.
e.   Suitability. Where there is a question as to the suitability of a lot or
lots for an intended use due to factors such as soil formations, flood
conditions, floodplains, high water table or similar circumstances, the
Commission shall after adequate investigation withhold approval of such lots.
Such lots shall be combined with other lots in such manner as to prohibit
future resubdivision. (5/3/71, § 8.3)
For state laws as to lots, see M.C.L.A. § 560.186.
Sec. 19-12. Block Lengths; Outlet Intervals; Pedestrian Crosswalks
No block shall exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length. Outlets or streets
to adjoining property may be required at lesser intervals if deemed necessary
by the Commission and twenty foot (20') pedestrian crosswalk easements with a
four foot (4') sidewalk may be required. (5/3/71, § 8.4)
Sec. 19-13. Drainage; Public Utility Easements
Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drain or street, there shall
be provided a storm water easement or drainage ROW conforming substantially
with the lines of the watercourse at flooding period, with such further width
for construction and maintenance as deemed adequate by the Commission, in no
case less than twenty feet (20') in width.
The Commission may require twenty-foot (20') easements along the lot lines of a
block for utility facilities, drainage, walkways, access to public land or
similar needs of the community. Easements may be required to be dedicated to
the City. (5/3/71, § 8.5)
For state law as to drainage, see M.C.L.A. § 560.192.
As to public utility easements, see M.C.L.A. § 560.190.
Sec. 19-14. Proposed Parks, Playgrounds, Schools or Other Public Uses
Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use shown in the
Master Plan is located in whole or in part in a subdivision, the Commission
shall bring such use to the attention of the platter and the Council and
discuss the question of acquiring such areas by dedication, reservation or
payment. (5/3/71, § 8.6)
Sec. 19-15. Monuments
Monuments shall be placed and be of such material, size and length as set forth
in M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. (5/3/71, § 8.7)
Sec. 19-16. Services and Improvements in Business and Industrial Subdivisions
Where land is subdivided to be used for business or industrial purposes
permitted by the zoning regulations, the services and improvements to be
required pursuant to the provisions of Section 19-43, shall be fixed by the
Commission with due consideration of use and density as they relate to the
types of business or industrial activities to be carried on in the subdivided
area. (5/3/71, § 8.8)
For state law as to construction of improvements, see M.C.L.A. § 560.188.
Sec. 19-17. Approval Generally; Re-Filing after Disapproval
The Council shall take action of approval or disapproval with recommendations
for changes within ninety (90) days of filing. Where action of disapproval is
taken, no re-filing is required if the applicant resubmits revised maps to the
Commission within sixty (60) days of such action. Such resubmittal shall be
deemed a new filing date. (5/3/71, § 8.9)
Sec. 19-18. Performance Guarantees
The Council may require formal agreements or the posting of a bond or other
surety sufficient to guarantee the proper installation and performance of
required improvements or materials or to meet other provisions or intents of
this Chapter. (5/3/71, § 8-10)
For state law as to performance guarantees, see M.C.L.A. § 560.182 and §
560.188.
Sec. 19-19. Applicability of State Law
The requirements, procedures, regulations and powers set forth in M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 et seq., shall apply unless modified by greater requirements,
procedures, regulations and powers of this Chapter. (5/3/71, § 8.11)
Sec. 19-20. Establishment of Inspection Fees, Requirements, etc.
The Council may establish inspection fees, inspection requirements,
specification standards and administrative procedures necessary for the
enforcement of this Chapter and such shall be deemed to be requirements of this
Chapter. (5/3/71, § 8.12)
For similar state law, see M.C.L.A. § 560.246.
ARTICLE III: UTILITY EXTENSIONS
Sec. 19-21. Requests for Service - Generally
Where utility services have been extended to a street, requests for utility
services to existing buildings or to existing platted lots shall be submitted
to the City Manager. If the Manager finds that the property or building meets
the requirements of this Chapter and of the zoning regulations he may authorize
such service; provided, that satisfactory financing arrangements are arrived
at.
Requests to extend City utility services to nonconforming uses, to new areas or
to new streets shall be made to the City Manager or as otherwise provided by
the Charter. No request for such public services shall be approved for a
property which does not conform to the provisions of this Chapter, the zoning
regulations or the adopted Master Plan except by a three-fourths vote of the
entire Council. (5/3/71, § 3.1)
Sec. 19-22. Same - Referral to Commission
Where a request for public utilities is made for a new subdivision within the
City, for a new subdivision or a new use outside of the City or for a
nonconforming use, it shall be forwarded to the Commission for study and
report. In making its report, the Commission shall apply the standards of the
zoning regulations and of this Chapter insofar as they are applicable and shall
make recommendations relating to annexation, service agreements or other
pertinent matters. (5/3/71, § 3.2)
Sec. 19-23. Installation Costs and Service Charges
Where any public improvements or other service is recommended and where the
City agrees to provide such service, such service shall be provided only when
satisfactory arrangements have been made for financing the cost of installation
and for the payment of satisfactory service charges for the use thereof. The
charge to properties outside the City shall be in accordance with the policies
established from time to time by the Council. (5/3/71, § 3.3)
ARTICLE IV: PROCEDURES
Sec. 19-24. Sketch Plats - Minor Subdivisions
Before any owner of land or his agent shall effect a minor subdivision, three
copies of a sketch plat of the proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the
Commission for approval. Such sketch plat shall be drawn to scale in ink and
shall show the original parcel of land in full, the lot to be created, any
building located on or within fifty feet (50') of such new lot, and any other
pertinent information required for such considerations. Dimensions to the
nearest foot shall be shown on all lot lines and existing buildings, and
distances between buildings and lot lines shall be shown to the nearest plat.
The Commission shall review the proposed minor subdivisions, and if it complies
with the provisions of this Chapter and of the zoning regulations, it shall
approve the subdivision and the Chair shall affix his signature, the date and a
notation of approval to the three (3) copies of the sketch plat. The Commission
shall forward one (1) approved copy to the Assessor and return one (1) signed
copy to the owner or his agent. No more than four (4) additional new lots shall
be created by a minor subdivision from any parcel of land existing as of
January 1, 1968 within a ten-year period following the creation of the first
lot without complying with the requirements for a major subdivision. The
Commission may designate any minor subdivision as a major subdivision if it
deems a new street is necessary or that the intent of this Chapter requires
such designation. Where a proposed lot faces upon a major or secondary street,
the sketch plat shall show and provide for any additional street ROW required
by Section 19-10 or shall be classified as a major subdivision in order to
create such additional ROW. (5/3/71, § 4.1)
Sec. 19-25. Same - Major Subdivisions
A sketch plat of any major subdivision must be submitted to the Commission
prior to the preparation of submission of a preliminary plat. The sketch plat
shall contain the information required by Article V of this Chapter and shall
be designed to enable the Commission to discuss principles and problems
involved before the expense of completing engineering drawings is incurred by
the developer. The following procedure shall be followed:
a.   Six (6) prints of the sketch plat shall be submitted to the City Manager
at least one (1) week prior to the next meeting of the Commission.
b.   The Manager shall forward one (1) copy of the sketch plat to the planning
consultant, Engineer and Assessor for review prior to such meeting. All
findings shall be reported to the Commission at such meeting.
c.   The developer, subdivider or his engineer must be present to present the
sketch plat to the Commission.
d.   The Commission shall review the sketch plat and reports, and advise the
applicant of any required changes, additional requirements or any further
action that the applicant may need to take.
e.   The Commission shall be advised and shall so advise the applicant if the
plat comes under the approval jurisdiction of the Health Department, County
Drain Commission, County Road Commission, State Highway Department or the Water
Resources Commission so that the applicant may make necessary submittals and
investigations prior to submission of a preliminary plat. (5/3/71, § 4.2)
Sec. 19-26. Same - Approval
Approval of the sketch plat shall not be binding upon the Commission but will
enable the applicant to proceed on a reasonable and sound basis. Where review
by another agency is required, the sketch plat approval shall automatically be
contingent upon such recommendations and requirements from such agencies. The
Commission may require the resubmission of a sketch plat incorporating advised
changes and may also require the submittal of additional data or information
prior to sketch plat approval. Sketch plat approval does not carry the
authority to proceed with construction or to sell or transfer property. (5/3/
71, § 4.3)
Sec. 19-27. Preliminary Plats - Submission to Clerk; Filing Fees; Forwarding of
Copies; Review; Presence of Subdivider at Commission Meetings
A preliminary plat of any proposed major subdivision must be submitted and
approved prior to the preparation of a final plat. The preliminary plat shall
contain all information required by Article V of this Chapter where applicable.
The following procedures shall be followed:
a.   Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat and two (2) copies of all proposed
utility and improvement plans together with two (2) copies of all required
information and data shall be submitted to the City Clerk at least two (2)
weeks prior to the regular meeting of the Commission.
b.   The applicant shall pay the City Clerk a filing fee as determined by
resolution of the city council for each proposed lot within the plat, whichever
is greater, including any parcel left from the original property. The
Commission may later direct the Clerk to remit to the applicant one-half (½) of
such fee where there are no requirements for any new streets, utilities or
other improvements other than monuments.
c.   The City Clerk shall forward copies of the preliminary plat to the City
Manager, the planning consultant, the City Engineer, the City Assessor and the
Chair of the Commission within three (3) days of the receipt. A copy of utility
and improvements plan and other required data shall accompany the submittals to
the City Manager and Engineer.
d.   The plat and data shall be reviewed by the City Manager, City Engineer,
planning consultant and the City Assessor and a report thereon shall be made to
the Commission.
e.   The subdivider or his representative must be present to all meetings of
the Commission at which the plat is to be reviewed for approval. (5/3/71, §
4.4)
For state law as to submission to clerk, see M.C.L.A. § 560.113.
As to fees, see M.C.L.A. § 560.246.
Sec. 19-28. Same - Preliminary Approval; Tentative Approval; Tentative
Guarantees; Final Submissions
There are four stages of approval for a preliminary plat: Preliminary approval
by the Commission; tentative approval by the Council; tentative approval by
responsible county and state agencies; and final approval by the Council.
a.   With the applicant or his representative in attendance, the Commission
shall consider the preliminary plat and the recommendations of the Engineer,
Assessor, Planner and Manager and shall require any such changes or
modifications to be made to the plat as are necessary to comply with the
provisions of this Chapter and shall return the plat to the subdivider for
compliance. If the preliminary plat as originally submitter or as changed or
modified as required by the Commission meets the requirements of this Chapter,
the Commission shall give it preliminary approval.
b.   The preliminary plat shall then be referred to the Council for tentative
approval. The applicant shall submit final plans of sewer, water, storm drains,
streets, street profiles and other required improvements for approval by the
City Engineer. Upon approval of such plans, the Council may grant tentative
approval of the plat. Upon tentative approval, the City Clerk shall affix his
signature to the plat with the notation that it has received tentative
approval. The plat shall then be returned to the subdivider for compliance with
the final approval requirements.
c.   Tentative approval by the Council shall give the applicant the following
rights for a one-year period from the date of approval:
   1.   That the general terms and conditions under which the tentative
approval was granted will not be changed by the City.
   2.   That the applicant may submit on or before the expiration date the
whole or parts of the tentatively approved preliminary plat for final approval
of the preliminary plat.
d.   The applicant shall forward the following copies of the tentatively
approved preliminary plat and improvement plans to the following agencies for
final approval of the preliminary plat:
   1.   County Road Commission - three (3) copies if the proposed subdivision
includes or abuts roads under the Road Commission's jurisdiction.
   2.   County Drain Commission - three (3) copies.
   3.   State Highway Department - three (3) copies for land within a quarter
(¼) mile of a state highway.
   4.   State Conservation Department - two (2) copies for land upon a lake or
stream.
   5.   State Water Resources Commission - (2) copies for land in a floodplain.
   6.   County Health Department - two (2) copies in the absence of either
public water or public sewer.
   7.   County Plat Board - two (2) copies.
   8.   Gas, electric, telephone and cable television companies - two (2)
copies each.
(5/3/71, § 4.5; Ord. No.0-95-06, 9/5/95)
For state law as to tentative approval, see M.C.L.A. § 560.113.
Sec. 19.29.   Same - Final Approval; Improvements Generally; Improvement
Inspections; Sureties, Performance Bonds, Guarantees, etc.
a.   Upon receipt of approval from the above-involved agencies, the Council may
grant final approval of the preliminary plat. If changes have been recommended
by any agency, the Commission shall review such plat with the applicant in
attendance. The applicant shall change the plat to conform to such requirements
or any variation thereto deemed proper by the Commission prior to final
approval by the Council. Where such changes result in changes to the final
plans for improvements, amended plans shall be prepared and submitted to the
City Manager for approval by the Council.
Final approval of the preliminary plat by the Council shall give the applicant
the following rights for a two-year period from the date of approval:
   1.   That the City will not change the general terms and conditions under
which the final approval was granted.
   2.   That the applicant may submit on or before the expiration date the
whole or parts of the preliminary plat as a final plat in accordance with
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
b.   Following final approval of the preliminary plat and final improvement
plans, the subdivider may proceed in making arrangements with the City for the
installation of streets, utilities and other improvements required under
Article VII of this Chapter and by the plans approved by the Council. The
subdivider's share of the cost of such improvements shall be borne in one of
the following ways:
   1.   By installation thereof in accordance with the City specifications and
inspection procedures.
   2.   By payment thereof at the time such improvements are to be installed by
the City.
   3.   By payment at a later date either in a lump sum, in installments or by
assessments, as may be agreed upon, in which case payment shall be assured
either by the posting by the subdivider of a surety bond in favor of the City
and acceptable by it sufficient in amount to cover the subdivider's share of
the cost of such improvements or by suitable contract between the subdivider
and the City.
c.   No improvements shall be installed, covered up or connected to existing
systems prior to the site inspection and approval of all locations and
installations by the City or by appropriate county, state or utility company
inspectors.
d.   Prior to the installation of any improvements, street or utilities, the
subdivider shall submit and have approved all required sureties, performance
bonds, maintenance guarantees or other agreements required by this Chapter or
by the regulations of the City. The Council shall determine appropriate
inspection fees to partially defray the costs of site inspections, which fees
shall be paid to the City Clerk prior to any such installation. (5/3/71, § 4.6)
For state law as to final approval and the rights conferred on applicant, see
M.C.L.A. § 560.120.
Sec. 19-30. Final Plats - Submission; Review; Approval; Forwarding of Copies;
Recording Generally
Within two (2) years from the date of final approval of the preliminary plat,
the subdivider may prepare a final plat containing all the certifications and
statements required by M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., and by Article V of this
Chapter.
a.   The subdivider shall:
   1.   Submit five (5) true copies of the final plat to the County Drain
Commission if its approval was required on the preliminary plat.
   2.   Submit the same true copies to the County Road Commission.
   3.   Submit the same true copies to the City Clerk, but only after approval
of the above agencies has been designated upon the final plat.
   4.   Submittal to the City Clerk shall be at least two (2) weeks prior to
the Council meeting at which approval of the final plat is sought.
   5.   Pay to the City Clerk the recording fee required by state law together
with a municipal fee as determined by resolution of the city council.
   6.   Submit a surety bond for all materials and workmanship for improvements
not yet completed or installed.
   7.   Submit Mylar copies of all as-built plans for all improvements and
construction completed.
   8.   Pay all City inspection fees.
   9.   Submit all agreements, performance bonds, surety bonds, deed
restrictions, checklists or other guarantees required by Article V of this
Chapter or by a reviewing agency under M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., or any rule
thereunder.
b.   The City Clerk shall forward all copies and submissions to the City
Manager for review for compliance with all requirements of the City
specifications, of this Chapter, M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., and of the
approved preliminary plat.
c.   If all submissions are found to be acceptable, the City Manager shall
submit such submissions to the Council at its next regular meeting for
approval. The Council shall reject or approve such final plat and submissions
and, if approved, shall instruct the City Clerk to certify such approval
together with the date thereof. When required, the Clerk shall also certify
upon the final plat the approval and date of Health Department approval on the
approved preliminary plat.
d.   The City Clerk shall thereupon promptly forward all copies of the final
plat to the Clerk of the County Plat Board together with the twenty-dollar
($20) recording fee.
e.   When the final plat is returned by the State Treasury Department with a
certification of approval, the final plat shall be recorded as a plat of
record. (5/3/71, § 4.7)
For state law as to submission of final plat, see M.C.L.A. § 560.166. As to
approval of final plat by City, see M.C.L.A. § 560.182. As to recording, see
M.C.L.A. § 560.172.
Sec. 19-31. Same - Status of Property Prior to Recordation; Sales Prior to
Recordation
Until recorded as a plat of record, a property is unsubdivided. No more that
one building may be constructed thereon; except that where streets and other
improvements have been installed in accordance with the final approved
preliminary plat, such streets shall be deemed to have subdivided the plat into
blocks and one building may be constructed upon each block so formed. Sale of
any land, unless by an entire block, shall be in violation of this Chapter
until approval of the final plat. (5/3/71, § 4.8)
For state law as to sales prior to recording of plat, see M.C.L.A. § 560.252, §
560.264, § 560.267.
Sec. 19-32. Waiver of Improvement Time Limits
With adequate agreements and surety bonds posted, the Council may waive
required improvements other than required storm drains, gas lines, sanitary
sewers, water lines and road base until over one-third (1/3) of the lots along
a section of unimproved street are sold. (5/3/71, § 4.9)
Sec. 19-33. Alteration of Approved Lots
No lot or lots approved prior to May 3, 1971 or approved in accordance with
this Chapter shall hereafter be altered or otherwise be changed by the
relocation, addition or removal of a lot line, except in the following
circumstances:
a.   Where multiple alterations or changes would decrease the total number of
lots affected.
b.   Where multiple alterations or changes would increase the lot area of all
lots affected.
c.   Where one (1) lot line only is relocated between two (2) lots. Where such
relocation is permitted, no other lot line of such two (2) lots may be altered
or relocated in any way thereafter.
d.   Any such above change or alteration shall be deemed a minor subdivision
and shall follow the procedures and requirements for a minor subdivision as set
forth by this Chapter. (5/3/71, § 4.10)
For state law as to alteration of plats, see M.C.L.A. § 560.221 to 560.229 . As
to further partition or division, see M.C.L.A. § 560.263.
Sec. 19-34. Unnumbered Outlots
An unnumbered outlot within a major subdivision plat is prohibited. No
subdivision plat shall be so arranged as to create a separate lot or lots of
less than three (3) acres that are not part of the plat and are separated by
the plat from any unplatted portions of the property. (5/3/71, § 4.11)
For state law as to outlots, see M.C.L.A. § 560.186.
ARTICLE V: PLAT DETAILS
Sec. 19-35. Major Subdivision Sketch Plat
The required sketch plat shall be designed in compliance with the provisions of
Articles II, VI and VII of this Chapter, be drawn at a scale of not more than
one hundred feet to the inch (1"=100') and shall show or be accompanied by the
following information:
a.   The outlines of the entire property owned or represented by the applicant.
b.   The name of the owner, the subdivider and the person preparing the plat
and a tentative plat name.
c.   The names of all adjacent property owners.
d.   The locations of all existing lots, streets, utilities, drains, streams or
bodies of water on or abutting or within two hundred feet (200') of the
property to be subdivided.
e.   The tentative location of new streets and lots for the entire property
owned or represented by the applicant.
f.   The tentative arrangement of proposed lots shall include a measured lot
width at a point sixty feet (60') from the front lot line.
g.   The tentative designation of floodplains, waterway or drainage
alterations, high water table areas or other information unique to the land
involved.
h.   A statement regarding any intent to utilize private wells or private
sanitary sewage disposal facilities upon the lots of the subdivision. (5/3/71,
§ 5.1)
Sec. 19-36. Preliminary Plat
The preliminary plat shall be designed to accordance with: the provisions of
Articles II, VI and VII of this Chapter; the conditions stipulated under sketch
plat approval; the requirements of M.C.L.A. § 560.101; and the requirements of
the Health Department, Water Resources Commission, Conservation Department,
Highway Department or the County Road Commission
where applicable. The preliminary plat shall be drawn at a scale of not more
than one hundred feet to the inch (1"=100') and shall show or be accompanied by
the following information:
a.   The name of the plat, the name and address of the proprietor, the name and
address of the surveyor and a description of the property to be subdivided.
b.   A key map at approximately one thousand feet to the inch (1"=1,000')
showing the relationship of the property to surrounding streets and to the
surrounding community.
c.   All land owned or represented by the applicant including a delineation of
that portion for which preliminary plat approval is desired. The plat shall
indicate by appropriate symbols all existing lots and street ROW within two
hundred feet (200') of the portion being submitted as a preliminary plat. For
good cause, the Commission may require an enlargement or diminution of the area
submitted for preliminary plat approval.
d.   Five-foot (5') contour elevations adjusted to U.S.G.S. datum provided that
two-foot (2') contour elevations shall be shown on land of less than two
percent (2%) slope, on land where the groundwater elevation is within six feet
(6') of grade or on land within six feet (6') in elevation of a stream, lake or
other body of water, whether existing or proposed.
e.   Street ROW locations and widths including stub or outlet streets to
adjacent properties and connections to existing streets and street names.
f.   Lot lines, lot line dimensions, lot and block numbers and lot areas to the
nearest fifty square feet (50 ft.2).
g.   The location and dimensions of ROW, easements or reserve strips.
h.   A plan or plans showing the locations, connections to existing facilities
and sizes of street pavements, sidewalks, water lines, sanitary sewer lines,
gas lines, electrical conduits, telephone lines, cable television lines, fire
hydrants, street lights, curbs and gutters, stormsewer lines, culverts,
bridges, exiting trees to be maintained and proposed shade trees.
i.   The location, depth and results of soil boring tests or percolation test
holes on every third lot within the preliminary plat where either public water
or public sanitary sewers are not available for use.
j.   Floodplain profiles or cross sections where the land abuts, includes or is
adjacent to a stream, drain or other body of water with elevations shown at
U.S.G.S. datum.
k.   Five (5) copies of any proposed or required deed restrictions or covenants
for review and comparison to City regulations.
l.   A subdivision site report or reports, where appropriate, from the Health
Department, the Conservation Department, the Water Resources Commission, the
County Drain Commission, the Highway department or the County Road Commission.
m.   Proposed street grade profiles and sewer grades.
n.   Proposed monument locations. (5/3/71, § 5.2; Ord. No. 0-95-06, 9/5/95)
Sec. 19-37. Final Plat
The final plat shall be prepared as required by M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. It
shall be accompanied by or show the following additional information:
a.   As-built plans of all installed improvements or final plans for all
required improvements not installed or completed.
b.   Certified deed restrictions or covenants to be placed on the property.
c.   Deeds to all properties, easement or reserve strips to be placed in public
hands or dedicated therefor.
d.   Tax certificates from the County Treasurer.
e.   A two-year performance bond for all improvements installed by the
subdivider and installation agreements on sidewalks, trees, streets, topsoil,
electric conduits, gas lines, street lights, street signs and fire hydrants.
f.   An approved improvement financing agreement where required.
g.   Certification signatures of approval by the Drain Commission and the
County Road Commission. (5/3/71, § 5.3)
   ARTICLE VI: LOT SITES
Sec. 19-38. Classification of Subdivisions; Increase in Lot Area as Public
Services Decrease; Applicability of Zoning Regulations
For the purpose of this Chapter, subdivisions shall be classified as complete
utility, partial utility, potential utility or private service subdivisions. To
ensure the economical and sound extension of utility services, to avoid
premature concentrations of population and for reasons of health and
sanitation, the minimum required area to each lot shall increase as the
availability of public services decreases. In areas beyond the City corporate
limits, the zoning districts and regulations therefor shown on the zoning map
shall apply except where greater restrictions are imposed by township or county
regulations. This Chapter may impose greater lot sizes but may not decrease the
minimums of the zoning regulations. Minor subdivisions in all zones need only
conform to or exceed the minimum set in Chapter 22. (5/3/71, § 6.1)
Sec. 19-39. Complete Utility Subdivisions
A complete utility subdivision shall be located only in a primary or industrial
service area. Fifty percent (50%) of all lots in a major subdivision shall
exceed the minimum lot width and lot area designated by the zoning regulations
by at least six percent (6%). Another twenty-five percent (25%) of all lots
shall exceed the minimum lot width and area by at least twelve percent (12%).
Corner lots shall be at least twelve percent (12%) wider and twelve percent
(12%) larger than the minimum zoning requirements. The following table is
presented for convenience:
Complete Utility Subdivisions: Lot Areas and Lot Widths *
Zoning   25% of Lots        50% of Lots             25% of Lots
District Width  Area (ft.2) Width (ft.) Area (ft.2) Width (ft.) Area (ft.2)
         (ft.)
R-S      113    17,000      120         18,000      127         19,000
R-80     80     10,400      85          11,025      90          11,650
R-65     65     8,400       69          8,900       73          9,400
R-A      60     7,800       63.6        8,290       67.2        8,780
R-M      47     6,000       50          6,360       53          6,720
 
R-L: Minimum lot widths and areas shall be as provided in Section 22-86. (5/3/
71, § 6.1)
* - For state law as to lot widths and area, see M.C.L.A. § 560.186.
Sec. 19-40. Partial or Potential Utility Subdivision in Primary Service Areas
   A partial or potential utility subdivision in a primary service area is
prohibited.
(5/3/71, § 6.1)
Sec. 19-41. Private Service Subdivisions
The minimum width of lots at the building line shall be one hundred fifty feet
(150') and the minimum lot area shall be thirty-six thousand square feet
(36,000 ft.2). (5/3/71, § 6.1)
Sec. 19-42. Partial or Potential Utility Subdivision in Secondary Service Areas
A potential utility subdivision located in a secondary service area is
prohibited where a public water system or a public water system and a public
sanitary sewer system are reasonably available or where the City arranges to
make them reasonably available. In a potential utility subdivision in the
secondary service area, the minimum lot width shall be one hundred thirty feet
(130') and the minimum lot area shall be nineteen thousand five hundred square
feet (19,500 ft.2) (5/3/71, § 6.1)
ARTICLE VII: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS IN MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS *
For state law as to authority of city to require installations of improvements,
see M.C.L.A. § 560.188.
As to improvements relative to streets, etc., M.C.L.A. § 560.182.
Sec. 19-43. Complete Utility Subdivisions
Prior to the granting of final plat approval for a complete utility
subdivision, the subdivider shall have installed or have agreements for the
installation of the following improvements in accordance with the City
construction specifications for subdivider improvements:
a.   Pavement and curbs. A graded and paved street of not less than thirty-four
feet (34') in width between curb faces with concrete curbs and gutters. A
street designated as a collector street by the Commission shall have a width of
thirty-five feet (35') between curb faces. Where a subdivision abuts a major
street, one curb and gutter and customary drainage shall be provided thereon at
a location designated by the City Manager in conformance with major street
width plans of the City.
b.   Water. A public water supply of a size specified by the City available at
the property line of each lot within the subdivision and connected to an
existing public system together with the installation of fire hydrants and stop
boxes in locations approved by the City.
c.   Sewers and drainage. Public sanitary sewers connected to an existing
public system available and staked at the property line of each lot within the
subdivision; culverts, catchbasins and stormsewers of a size specified by the
City properly connected to an existing system as approved by the City. This
shall include basement footing drains where deemed necessary.
d.   Electric, telephone and cable television conduits. Underground electric,
telephone and cable television conduits shall be installed together in the same
trench where possible and have connection terminals available at each lot.
Locations for area service terminals shall be included in the plat of the
public street ROW.
e.   Gas service. Gas distribution lines shall be installed in a manner to
permit gas service to each lot without tunneling, cutting or otherwise
disturbing street paving or the paving base. Where gas service is not
available, a dummy gas line shall be placed across the street ROW in each block
prior to installing street paving or the paving base.
f.   Sidewalks. Five-foot (5') sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of
any street.
g.   Shade trees. Two (2) shade trees shall be provided in front of each lot
between the curb and the sidewalk. Said trees shall be a type and size
designated by the City Manager and will be at least three feet (3') from any
curb or sidewalk.
h.   Topsoil. No topsoil shall be removed from the site or used as spoil.
Topsoil moved during the course of construction shall be redistributed and
stabilized by seeding or planting as specified by the City.
i.   Monuments. Monuments shall conform to M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
j.   Street name signs. Signs shall be placed at all intersections within or
abutting the subdivision. The type and location shall be specified by the City
Manager. (5/3/71, § 7.1; Ord. No. 0-95-06, 9/5/95)
Sec. 19-44. Partial or Potential Utility Subdivisions
The same improvements called for in Section 19-43 shall be required; except
that:
a.   If a public utility water system is not available, individual wells may be
used provided well locations are submitted to and approved by the Health
Department.
b.   If the services of a public utility sanitary sewer system are not
available, private disposal systems may be used; provided, that their locations
are approved by the Health Department; and further provided, that prior to
final plat approval a percolation test of each lot at such location is made and
found to be satisfactory in all respects. (5/3/71, § 7.2)
Sec. 19-45. Variation of Sidewalk Requirements Where all Lots are Over One
Hundred Feet Wide
If the average width of all lots in a subdivision exceeds one hundred feet
(100'), one five-foot (5') sidewalk on one side of the street may be permitted
instead of two (2) sidewalks. (5/3/71, § 7.3)
Sec. 19-46. Additional Costs of Improvement Increased to Meet Needs of Other
Areas
Where the City requires that any given improvement be increased in size or
length to meet the needs of other areas, arrangements shall be made prior to
installation or prior to approval of a final plat for the City or the
surrounding area to pay additional costs thereof. (5/3/71, § 7.3)
ARTICLE VIII: VARIANCES *
* For state law as to waiver of restrictions, M.C.L.A. § 560.254.
Sec. 19-47. Grounds Generally; Items to be Considered by Council
If the subdivider can clearly demonstrate that literal enforcement of this
Chapter is impractical or will impose undue hardship in the use of his land
because of peculiar conditions pertaining to
such land, the Council may permit such variances as, in its sound discretion,
it believes to be reasonable and within the general purpose and policy of this
Chapter.
In making the findings required in Section 19-48, the Council shall consider
the recommendation of the Commission, the location and condition of the
proposed subdivision, the nature of the proposed variance as compared with the
existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work
in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision
and variances on traffic conditions in the vicinity. (5/3/71, § 9.1)
Sec. 19-48. Necessary Conditions
No variance shall be granted unless the Council finds that all of the following
conditions exist:
a.   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land such that
the strict application of the provisions of this Chapter would deprive the
applicant of the reasonable use of his property.
b.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant.
c.   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to state regulations,
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in
which said land is situated. (5/3/71, § 9.1)
Sec. 19-49. Petition; Commission Recommendation; Approval of Variance
Disapproved by Commission
A petition for any such variance shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider at the time the sketch plat or the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the Commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds for
the application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner. The
Commission shall make a recommendation to the Council upon any requested
variance. The Council may not grant a variance where such has been disapproved
by the Commission except by a full two-thirds vote. (5/3/71, § 9.2)
   ARTICLE IX: SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS
Sec. 19-50. Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Building Envelope means the area of a condominium unit within which the
principal building or structure may be constructed, together with any accessory
structures, as described in the master deed for the site condominium project.
In a single-family residential site condominium project, the building envelope
refers to the area of each condominium within which the dwelling and any
accessory structures may be built.
Condominium Act means Act No. 59 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1978 (MCL,
559.101 et seq., MSA, 26.50(101) et seq.)
Condominium Project means a condominium project developed under the Condominium
Act.
Condominium Structure means the principal building or structure intended for or
constructed upon a lot or building site, together with any attached accessory
structures; e.g. in a residential development, the condominium structure would
refer to the house and any attached garage.
Condominium Unit means a condominium unit established in compliance with the
Condominium Act, which consists of an area of vacant land and a volume of
vacant air space, designed and intended for separate ownership and use as
described in the site condominium project master deed, and within which a
building or other improvements may be constructed by the condominium unit
owner.
Exempt Change means a change to a site condominium project (other than a major
or minor change) that is exempt from review and approval as required for major
or minor changes under this Article. Exempt changes shall be limited to the
following:
a.   A change in the name of the project, in the name of street within the
project, or in the name of the developer of the project;
b.   A change in the voting rights of co-owners or mortgages; or
c.   Any other change in the site condominium project which, as determined by
the Planning Commission (hereinafter "Commission"), does not constitute a major
or minor change or will not otherwise change the site configuration, design,
layout, topography or any other aspect of a project that is subject to
regulation under this Chapter.
Limited Common Element means an area appurtenant to a site condominium unit and
reserved in the master deed for the site condominium project for the exclusive
use of the owner of the site condominium unit.
Lot means the same as building site and is that portion of a condominium
project designed and intended for separate ownership and/or exclusive use, as
described in the master deed. "Lot" may be further defined as:
a.   A condominium unit consisting of the area under a building envelope and
the contiguous area around the building envelope which, by itself, meets the
minimum area and yard requirements for lots as required by this Article; or
b.   The contiguous limited common element under and surrounding a condominium
unit that is or shall be assigned to the owner of the condominium unit for the
owner's exclusive use, and which, together with the condominium unit, meets the
minimum area and yard requirements for lots as required by this Article.
Major Change means a change in the site configuration, design, layout or
topography of a site condominium project (or any portion thereof), including
any change that could result in:
a.   An increase of twenty percent (20%) or more in the number of site
condominium units from the original approved Site Condominium Project Plan; and
b.   Any other change in the site configuration, design, layout, topography or
other aspect of the project subject to regulation under this Chapter,
including, without limitation, a change in the location of streets and
utilities, or in the size, location, area, horizontal boundaries or vertical
boundaries of a site condominium unit, and which is determined by the
Commission to constitute a major change to the site condominium project.
Master Deed means the legal document prepared and recorded pursuant to the
Condominium Act to which is attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference
the approved bylaws for the project and the approved condominium subdivision
plan for the project.
Minor Change means a change in the site configuration, design, layout or
topography of a site condominium project (or any portion thereof), including
any change that will result in:
a.   An increase of less than twenty percent (20%) in the number of site
condominium units from the original approved Site Condominium Project Plan or a
decrease in the number of site condominium units from the original approved
Site Condominium Project Plan; and
b.   Any other minor variation in the site configuration, design, layout,
topography or other aspect of the project to regulation under this Chapter, and
which, as determined by the Commission, does not constitute a major change.
Setback, Front, Side and Rear Yard means the distance measured from the
respective front, side and rear of the condominium structure/building envelope
to the equivalent of the front, side and rear lot line, respectively.
Site Condominium Project means a plan or project consisting of not less than
two site condominium units established in compliance with the Condominium Act.
Site Condominium Project Plan means the plans, drawings and information
prepared for a site condominium project as required by Section 66 of the
Condominium Act (MCL 559.165, MSA, 26.50(166)) and as required by this Article
for review of the project by the Commission and the City Council (hereinafter
"Council".) (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-51. Purpose and Scope
a.   The purpose of this Article is to provide procedures for the orderly use
and development of property that results in the creation of two or more lots,
each of which is ten acres or less in size and is not otherwise regulated by
this Code and the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, Act No. 288 of the Public
Acts of Michigan of 1967 (MCL 560.101 et seq., MSA, 26.430(101) et seq.) This
Article identifies minimum standards for the development of property as site
condominiums in the City of Fremont (hereinafter "City"), and sets forth
procedures to be followed by the City in applying these rules, regulations and
standards.
b.   In addition, the purpose of this Article is to:
   1.   Provide for orderly growth and harmonious development of the City
consistent with orderly growth policies;
   2.   Secure adequate traffic circulation through coordinated street systems
with proper relation to major thoroughfares, adjoining subdivisions and public
facilities;
   3.   Achieve adequate provisions for water, drainage and sanitary
facilities, and other health requirements;
   4.   Encourage the provision of recreational areas and facilities, school
sites and other public facilities;
   5.   Ensure against the creation of unsafe or undesirable conditions;
   6.   Regulate the density of development in relation to the availability of,
or lack of, utility services;
   7.   Conserve natural features;
   8.   Carry out the purpose and intent of the City's Comprehensive
Development and Growth Management Plan and this Chapter; and
   9.   Provide procedures for the achievement of these purposes.
c.   Site condominium projects are condominium developments in which each
condominium unit consists of an area of vacant land and a volume of vacant air
space within which a building or other improvements may be constructed by the
condominium unit owner. Each site condominium unit may also have an appurtenant
limited common element reserved for the exclusive use of the owner of the
condominium unit.
d.   Either the condominium unit by itself, or the condominium unit taken
together with any contiguous, appurtenant limited common element, shall be
considered to constitute a building site which is the functional equivalent of
a lot for purposes of determining compliance with the requirement of this
Chapter and other applicable laws, ordinances and regulations. Site condominium
projects may also include general common elements consisting of common open
space, recreational areas, streets and other areas available for use by all
owners of condominium units within the project. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-52. Administration
To ensure that site condominium projects comply with this Chapter, this Article
requires preliminary review of site condominium projects plans by the
Commission followed by final review and approval by the Council, as provided by
the Condominium Act. Site condominium projects may be approved as provided by
this Article in any zoning district for the uses permitted in the zoning
district in which the project is located. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-53. General Requirements
Site condominium projects shall comply with the following general requirements:
a.   Each condominium lot shall front on and have direct access to a public or
private street. Public and private streets shall comply with the design and
construction standards of Chapter 18 of the Fremont City Code "Streets and
Sidewalks" provided, however, the Council may modify the design and
construction requirements of said Chapter as determined necessary for the
public health, safety and welfare.
b.   After construction of the condominium unit, the balance of the condominium
unit site shall become a limited common element.
c.   The term "condominium unit site" shall be equivalent to the term "lot"
(zoning lot) for purposes of determining compliance of a site condominium
subdivision with the provisions of this Article pertaining to minimum lot size,
minimum lot width, maximum lot coverage, maximum lot width to depth ratio and
other area requirements.
d.   The use or uses of a condominium project shall be as regulated by the
underlying zoning district.
e.   The condominium subdivision plan shall include all necessary easements
granted to the City for the purposes of constructing, operating, inspecting,
maintaining, repairing, altering, replacing and/or removing pipelines, mains,
conduits and other installations of a similar character for the purpose of
providing public utilities, including conveyance of sewage, water and
stormwater run-off across, through and under the property subject to said
easement, and excavating and refilling ditches and trenches necessary for the
location of said structures. The condominium plan shall also include all
easements necessary for the placement of other essential public services
including, but not limited to, natural gas, electric, telephone, cable and
other such services.
f.   All utilities, lines, mains, wires, cables, conduit and related
transmission and supply facilities shall be placed underground.
g.   Approval of a site condominium project by the City does not relieve the
applicant from compliance with applicable county, state and federal regulations
governing said project. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-54. Scheduling of Fees
The scheduling of fees for the review of projects under this Article shall be
as required by Council resolution. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-55. Review of Preliminary Plans by the Planning Commission
a.   Required. Prior to final review and approval of a site condominium project
plan by the Council, the Commission in accordance with the procedures,
standards and requirements provided by this Article shall review a preliminary
site condominium project plan.
b.   Application Submittal Requirements. An application for preliminary site
plan review along with six sets of the plan shall be submitted to the City
Clerk at least two weeks prior to the next scheduled Commission meeting along
with a fee as set forth by the Council. The application shall at a minimum,
contain the following information:
   1.   The applicant's name, address and phone number;
   2.   Proof that the applicant is the owner of the property or has a legal or
financial interest in the property such as a purchase agreement;
   3.   The name, address and phone number of the owner of record if different
than the applicant;
   4.   The address of the property;
   5.   Legal description or permanent parcel number of the property;
   6.   Project description;
   7.   Size of the parcel in acres; and
   8.   Signature of the applicant and owner of the property.
c.   Technical Review. The City Clerk shall transmit the application and
project plans to the City Manager for technical review. Copies may also be sent
to the City Planner, City Zoning Enforcement Officer, Engineer, Fire Chief and
Police Chief as deemed necessary. The site plan shall be reviewed for
compliance with the requirements of this Article and a report prepared for the
Commission.
d.   Requirements for Preliminary Plans. The preliminary plan shall contain and
include the following requirements and standards:
   1.   A condominium project shall include the documents and information
required by Section 66 of the Condominium Act (MCL, § 559.166; MSA, § 26.50
(166)), including the signature and seal of the architect, land surveyor or
engineer that prepares the plan.
   2.   A statement describing the proposed method of providing potable water
supply, waste disposal facilities and public and private utilities, and a
statement from the district health department indicating the suitability of the
land for the operation of septic tanks, if proposed.
   3.   All private streets in a site condominium shall comply with the
standards for private streets as set out in Chapter 18 of the City Code.
   4.   The location of any and all general and limited common elements, as
well as the use and occupancy restrictions and maintenance provisions for all
general and limited common elements that will be included in the master deed.
   5.   A stormwater drainage and management plan, including all lines, swales,
drains, basins and other facilities and easements granted to the City for
installation, repair and maintenance of all drainage facilities.
   6.   In its review of a site condominium project plan, the Commission may
consult with the City Manager, City Planner or other appropriate persons
regarding the adequacy of the proposed common elements and maintenance
provisions, use and occupancy restrictions, utility systems and streets,
project layout and design or other aspects of the proposed project.
   7.   The Commission shall require that portions of the plan as relevant to
the reviewing authority in question be submitted to the District Health
Department, County Road Commission, County Drain Commission, State Department
of Natural Resources, State Department of Public Health and other appropriate
state and county review and enforcement agencies having direct approval of
permitting authority over any aspect of the proposed site condominium project.
   8.   The building site for each site condominium unit shall comply with all
applicable provisions of this Article for the zoning district in which it will
be located, including minimum lot area, minimum lot width, required front, side
and rear yards, minimum floor area and maximum building height. For example,
the area and width of the building site shall be used to determine compliance
with the minimum lot area and lot width requirements. Compliance with required
front, side or rear yards shall be determined by measuring the distance from
the equivalent front, side or rear yard boundaries of the building site closest
to the respective front, side or rear yard boundary of the building envelope.
Building setback lines showing dimensions from all streets and lot lines shall
be illustrated on the project plan.
   9.   If a site condominium project is proposed to have public streets, the
streets shall be paved and developed to the minimum design, construction,
inspection, approval and maintenance requirements for platted public streets as
required by the City.
   10.   If the location of the existing lines is within two hundred feet
(200') of the property proposed for the site condominium, the site condominium
project shall be connected to the City water and sanitary sewer facilities. If
public water and sanitary sewer facilities are not available, each condominium
unit shall be served by either a private central system (designed for
connection to a public system when and if a public system is made available),
or shall have a well, septic tank and drainfield located within the condominium
unit's building site. Water and sanitary sewer facilities shall be installed
according to the standards of the district health department and the City.
   11.   The name of abutting developments, if any.
   12.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development if the proposed
project is a portion of a larger holding intended for subsequent development.
   13.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed project shall be
included. Zoning and land use on adjacent parcels should also be illustrated.
   14.   A table listing the proposed lots by number and the respective lot
area for each lot.
   15.   Additional information that will assist the applicant in proceeding in
a reasonable and sound manner toward final approval of the project.
e.   Planning Commission Review.
   1.   After reviewing the preliminary site condominium project plan, the
Commission shall prepare a written statement of recommendations regarding the
proposed site condominium project, including any suggested or required changes
in the plan. The Commission shall provide a copy of its written recommendations
to the applicant and to the Council.
   2.   If the preliminary project plan does not meet all requirements
contained in this Section, the Commission shall notify the applicant by letter
indicating any additional information or changes required. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/
02)
Sec. 19-56. Review and Approval of Final Plans by Council
a.   After receiving the Commission's recommendations on the preliminary plan,
the applicant shall submit to the City Clerk six copies of a final site
condominium development plan that complies with the requirements for a
preliminary site condominium project plan. The applicant shall also submit
copies of reviews by those agencies with jurisdiction over the project as noted
in Section 19-54(d)(7). The City Clerk shall forward the copies of the final
plan and other information to the Council.
b.   The final site condominium project plan submitted by the applicant shall
incorporate all of the recommendations, if any, made by the Commission based on
its prior review of the preliminary plan. If any of the Commission's
recommendations are not incorporated in the final plan, the applicant shall
clearly specify in writing which have not been incorporated. Except for changes
made to the plan as necessary to incorporate the recommendations of the
Commission, the final plan shall otherwise be identical to the preliminary plan
reviewed by the Commission. Changes made to the plan other than those necessary
to incorporate the recommendations of the Commission shall be reviewed by the
Commission as provided by this Article prior to approval of the plan by the
Council.
c.   After receiving the Commission's recommendations on the preliminary plan
and a final site condominium development plan from the applicant, the Council
shall review and may approve, deny or approve with conditions the plan in
accordance with the standards and requirements of Article IV of Chapter 19 for
plat approval and other applicable procedures, standards and requirements
provided by this Article.
d.   The Council may grant tentative approval of the project and shall set
forth in writing the requirements that must be met for approval.
e.   The Council shall not review, approve or reject a final project plan until
it has received a report and recommendation from the Commission on the
preliminary project plan.
f.   As a condition of approval of a final site condominium project plan the
Council may:
1.   Require that a cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit or surety bond acceptable to the Council covering the estimated cost of
improvements associated with the site condominium project for which approval is
sought be deposited with the City Clerk/City Treasurer as provided by Section
19-18 of this Chapter.
2.   Impose additional reasonable conditions of approval necessary to ensure
that public services and facilities affected by a proposed land use or activity
will be capable of accommodating increased service and facility load caused by
the land use or activity, to protect the natural environment and conserve
natural resources and energy, to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of
land, and to promote the use of land in a socially and economically desirable
manner.
g.   Approval of a final site condominium project plan shall not constitute
approval of expandable or convertible portions of a site condominium project
unless the expandable or convertible areas were specifically reviewed and
approved by the Council in compliance with the procedures, standards and
requirements of this Article. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-57. Construction in Compliance with Approved Final Site Condominium
Project Plan
a.   No buildings or structures shall be constructed nor shall any other site
improvements or changes be made on the property in connection with a proposed
site condominium project except in compliance with a final site condominium
project plan as approved by the Council, including any conditions of approval.
b.   Required permits may be issued by the building inspector, and the
developer may proceed with the project provided:
1.   The Council has approved a final site condominium project plan and the
City Clerk and City Manager have signed the approved plan;
2.   All conditions to commencement of construction imposed by the Council have
been met; and
3.   All applicable inspections, approvals or permits from appropriate county
and state review and enforcement agencies have been obtained for the project.
(Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-58. Review and Approval of Changes to Approved Site Condominium Project
Plan
Any change proposed in connection with a project for which the Council has
previously approved a final site condominium project plan, shall be subject to
review as provided by this Section:
a.   Any change that constitutes a major change shall be reviewed by the
Commission and reviewed and approved by the Council as provided by this Article
for the original review and approval of preliminary and final plans.
b.   Any change that constitutes a minor change shall be reviewed and approved
by the Commission alone without the need for Council review.
c.   Any change that constitutes an exempt change shall not be subject to
review by the City under this Article, but a copy of changes proposed (and of
the changes made if different than proposed) shall be filed with the City
Clerk. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-59. Incorporation of Approved Provisions in the Master Deed
All provisions of a final site condominium project plan that are approved by
the Council as provided by this Article shall be incorporated by reference in
the master deed for the site condominium project. Further, all major changes to
a project shall be incorporated by reference in the master deed. A copy of the
master deed as recorded with the county register of deeds shall be provided to
the City Clerk within ten days after recording the plan with the county. (Ord.
O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-60. Approval Effective for One Year
No approvals of a final site condominium project plan by the Council shall be
effective for a period of more than one year unless construction of the project
commences within that one-year period and is diligently pursued to completion
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the approval. The Council in its
discretion may extend this one-year period for additional periods of time as
determined appropriate by the Council if the applicant applies for the
extension within the effective period of the approval. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Sec. 19-61. Variances
A variance from the provisions of this Article may be granted if the applicant
demonstrates that literal enforcement of any of the provisions of this Article
is impractical or will impose undue hardship in the use of the land because of
special or peculiar conditions pertaining to the land. Upon application, the
Council, after recommendation by the Commission, may permit a variance or
variances that are reasonable and within the general policies and purposes of
this Article. The Commission and Council may attach conditions to the variance.
The City Zoning Board of Appeals as required by this Chapter shall review
variances from regulations not contained in but required by this Article, such
as lot width or lot size. (Ord. O-02-09, 12/2/02)
Secs. 19-62 - 19-69 Reserved for future use
CHAPTER 20.
RESERVED.
 
CHAPTER 21.
WATER AND SEWERS
*
Article I: Municipal Water System
Division 1: Generally
§ 21-1.   "System" Defined
§ 21-2.   Administration of System
§ 21-3.   Adoption of Rules and Regulations by Resolution
§ 21-4.   Fiscal Year
§ 21-5.   Applications for Service; Connections to System Generally
§ 21-5.1.   Cross-Connections to Water System; Adoption of Code and Elimination
of Cross-Connections
§ 21-6.   Addition of Fluoride
§ 21-7.   Opening Main, Valve or Hydrant; Interfering with System Pipes,
Apparatus, Machinery, etc.
§ 21-8.   Entry for Inspection of Premises Connected with System
§ 21-9.   Installation, Replacement and Repair of Meters
§ 21-9.1.   Tampering with Meters or Breaking Seals
§ 21-10.   Service Connections Generally – Installation on Streets to be Paved
or Improved
§ 21-11.   Same – Maintenance; Cutting Pavement or Improved Surface to Install;
Repairs
§ 21-12.   Same – Connection to Hydrant; Meters for Large Projects; Persons to
be Charged; Termination Notice to Clerk
§ 21-13.   Construction of Sewer, Drains, etc., Near City Well or Water Supply
§ 21-14.   Depositing Refuse or Garbage Near City Well or Water Supply
Division 2: Rates, Charges and Bills
§ 21-15.   Establishment of Fees and Charges Generally
§ 21-16.   Remedies for Collection of Delinquent Charges; Tenants Solely Liable
for Payment
§ 21-17.   Free Service
§ 21-18.   Reading of Meters
§ 21-19.   Issue and Payment of Bills
§ 21-20.   Fees for Reinstatement of Service after Termination
Article II: Municipal Sewage Disposal System
*
Division 1: Generally
§ 21-21.   Definitions
§ 21-22.   Fiscal year
§ 21-23.   Conflict of Article with state or country requirements
§ 21-24.   Administration of system
§ 21-25.   Deposit of sewage wastes generally; improperly treated sewage
flowing from outlet of unknown origin
§ 21-26.   Deposit of excrement on public or private property
§ 21-27.   Discharges into natural watercourse or other areas within
jurisdiction of City
§ 21-28.   Installation and connection of toilet facilities in houses, etc.,
within two hundred feet of sewer
§ 21-29.   Connection to public sewer upon its becoming available
§ 21-30.   Permits for connection, etc. – Required
§ 21-31.   Same – Forms; fees.
§ 21-32.   Installation, maintenance and connection of building sewers;
location of sanitary sewer service leads.
§ 21-33.   Installation of water or sewage meters.
§ 21-34.   Reserved.
§ 21-35.   Discharge of water into sanitary sewer.
§ 21-36.   Discharge of unpolluted drainage and industrial cooling or process
waters into combined or storm sewers.
§ 21-37.    Materials not to be discharged into public sewers.
§ 21-38.    Grease, oil and sand interceptors – Required; construction.
§ 21-39.    Same – Maintenance.
§ 21-40.    Discharges subject to approval; preliminary treatment generally.
§ 21-41.    Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities.
§ 21-42.    Installation and maintenance of control manholes.
§ 21-43.    Standards for analyses of water and wastes; taking of samples.
§ 21-44.    Special agreements for discharge of industrial wastes.
§ 21-45.    Destruction, etc., of structures, appurtenance or equipment of
system.
§ 21-46.    Right of City to enter for inspections, measurements, testing, etc.
§ 21-47.    Violation of Article-Notice; correction generally.
§ 21-48.    Same – Continuation after time limit set by notice.
§ 21-49.    Same – Indemnification of City for expense caused by violation.
Division 2: Rates, Charges and Bills
§ 21-50.   Free service.
§ 21-51.   Charges for service to premises generally; installation of meters.
§ 21-52.   Commercial customers; schools and churches.
§ 21-53.   Miscellaneous services, special rates for large user of water not
discharged into system.
§ 21-54.   Special sewer rate for commercial laundromats and drycleaner
establishments.
§ 21-55.   Reserved.
§ 21-56.   Additional charges for discharges of unusual burden on system;
preliminary treatment; denial of right to discharge.
§ 21-57.   Fees for connection to system generally.
§ 21-58.   Fees for connection to trunkline sanitary sewer.
§ 21-59.   Issuance and payment of bills.
§ 21-60.   Remedies for collection of delinquent accounts; tenants solely
liable for payment.
Article III: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
§ 21-61.   Definitions.
§ 21-62.   Construction or maintenance of privies, privy vaults, septic tanks,
cesspools, etc., generally.
§ 21-63.   Water flush systems where connection to public sewer is not
required.
§ 21-64.   Use of building not provided with flush toilet connected to a
sewerage system.
§ 21-65.   Construction permits – Required; issuance.
§ 21-66.   Same – Fees.
§ 21-67.   Inspections.
§ 21-68.   Septic tanks – Location.
§ 21-69.   Same – Materials and construction generally.
§ 21-70.   Same – Capacity.
§ 21-71.   Same –Dosing tanks.
§ 21-72.   Subsurface disposal – Generally.
§ 21-73.   Same – Location.
§ 21-74.   Same – Headers; distribution boxes.
§ 21-75.   Same – Size of drain tile.
§ 21-76.   Same – Depth, slope and length of lines; construction of lines.
§ 21-77.   Same – Filter material; trench construction.
§ 21-78.   Same – Field area; soil percolation tests.
§ 21-79.   Systems where subsurface disposal is not suitable.
§ 21-80.   Nonconforming systems – Declared nuisances; orders to abate.
§ 21-81.   Same – Abatement by City and assessment of costs against owner or
occupant.
§ 21-82.   Enforcement of Article.
   *Charter reference – Power of City to own, construct, etc., public
utilities, § 14-1.
   Cross-references – Plumbing, §15-1 et seq.; street excavations, generally, §
18-18, §-18-25.
Article I: Municipal Water System
For state law as to waterworks generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 486.301 et seq.
As to City waterworks generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 106.1 et seq.
Division 1: Generally
Sec. 21-1. "System" Defined.
   Whenever the words "the system" or "system" are used in this Article they
shall mean the complete water supply system of the City, including, but not by
way of limitation:
   a.   All existing watermains, wells, pumps, fire hydrants and all other
works, instrumentalities and properties used or useful in connection with the
obtaining of a water supply or the distribution of water; and
   b.   Any additions, extensions and improvements to such system. (5-9-55, §
4)
Sec. 21-2. Administration of System.
   The operation, repair, maintenance and management of the system shall be
under the immediate supervision and control of the City Manager, subject to the
overall control and rights reserved by law and the City Charter to the City
Council (hereinafter "Council".) (5-9-55, § 8)
For Charter provision as to administration of public utilities, see Char. §
14.2.
Sec. 21-3. Adoption of Rules and Regulations by Resolution.
   The Council may, by resolution from time to time, adopt such rules and
regulations relative to water service and to such water supply system not in
conflict with this Article or the Charter of the City. (5-9-55, § 18)
For Charter provision as to adoption of rules and regulations by resolution,
see Char, 8.2.
Sec. 21-4. Fiscal Year.
   Such water supply system shall be operated on the basis of a fiscal year
beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30 of each year. (5-9-55, 9)
For Charter provision as to fiscal year of City, see Char. § 9.1.
Sec. 21-5. Applications for Service; Connections to System Generally.
   No premises shall be furnished water service, except premises being
furnished such service on May 9, 1955 until after proper application therefor,
signed by the owners of the premises for which such service is requested on
blank forms to be furnished by the City Clerk (hereinafter "Clerk"), shall have
been filed with the Clerk and approved by him.
   No person, except an authorized employee of the City or a licensed plumber
under the supervision of an authorized employee of the City, shall make any tap
or connection with any watermain or lateral connecting therewith constituting a
part of such water supply system; provided, that all new water services from
the shut-off box to the inside of the building on premises being connected with
such service shall be of copper tubing of the standard type and quantity used
for such services in the City. (5-9-55, § 12; 2-13-56, § 1)
Sec. 21-5.1. Cross-Connections to Water System; Adoption of Code and
Elimination of Cross-Connections.
   The City adopts by reference the water supply cross connection rules of the
State Department of Public Health a copy of which is on file in the office of
the City Clerk.
   It shall be the duty of the City to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections with the
public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-
inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as established
by the City and as approved by the State Department of Public Health.
   The representative of the City shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time and property served by a connection to the public water supply
system of the City for the purposes of inspecting the piping system or systems
thereof for cross-connections. On request the owner, lessees or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   The City is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service
after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in violation of
this Section exits, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the cross
connection has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
Section.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this Section and by the state and City's Plumbing Code. Any water outlet
which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
   WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
   Nothing in this Section shall supercede the state Plumbing Code adopted
pursuant to Sec. 15-1 of the City Code, but is supplementary thereto.
   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this Section or any written order of the City, in pursuance thereof shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (4-7-75)
Sec. 21-6. Addition of Fluoride.
   Upon receiving the approval of the Michigan Department of Public Health and
until further direction of the City, the Water Department of the City is hereby
authorized and directed to provide the means and to proceed with the addition
of approximately 0.9 and not more than 1.2 parts of fluoride to every million
parts of water being distributed in the water supply system of the City. (11-6-
67, § 1)
   For state law as to addition of fluoride to water, see M.C.L.A. §§
333.12721.
Sec. 21-7. Opening Main, Valve or Hydrant; Interfering with System Pipes,
Apparatus, Machinery, etc.
   No person, except authorized agents or employees of the City and firemen in
the legitimate discharge of their duties, shall open or close any main, valve
or hydrant or in any manner molest or interfere with any building, machinery,
pipes, apparatus or fixtures constituting a part of the water supply system,
except those situated upon private property and not within the control or
jurisdiction of the City. (5-9-55, § 13)
As to destruction, etc., of City property, see § 13-7 to § 13-9 of this Code.
Sec. 21-8. Entry for Inspection of Premises Connected with System.
   Any authorized agent or employee of the City is hereby authorized to enter
and inspect, in proper hours, all premises connected with the water supply
system and in particular to inspect valves, pipes, fixtures and meters. (5-9-
55, § 14)
Sec. 21-9. Installation, Replacement and Repair of Meters.
   All premises to which water service is furnished by the water supply system,
shall have installed thereon in a location designated by an authorized employee
of the city a water meter, or meters where there is more than water service
connection, of the type prescribed by the City Council, and furnished by the
city. No water service shall be furnished to such premises until such water
meter, or meters, shall have been properly installed. No change in the
installation or in the location of any meter shall be made without the approval
of an authorized employee of the city.
   Whenever the City Clerk shall determine that any water meter one inch or
greater in capacity has become obsolete or incapable of properly metering the
water used, the owner of the premises upon which the same is situated shall pay
the cost of any necessary repairs or of installation of a new meter of the kind
and type prescribed by the City Council. The city shall replace meters three-
fourths inch in capacity or less when the City Clerk deems the same obsolete or
otherwise inadequate.
   All meters damaged by the property owner or allowed to freeze shall be
repaired by the city at the expense of the property owner, at city's cost plus
fifteen percent for overhead and administration. All charges for repairs of
water meters and for new meters shall be due immediately after the expiration
of ten days after notice thereof has been given by the City Clerk; and in the
event payment thereof is not thereupon made, the amount of such charges for
repairs or cost of a new meter shall be added to the next quarterly water bill
chargeable against the premises of such owner and shall be due and payable and
be collected in the same manner as the service charges specified in such bill
and shall likewise become a lien upon such premises until paid and shall be
enforced in the same manner as liens for water service charges and rates. The
charges for installation and/or repair of meters shall be made from time to
time by resolution adopted by the City Council. (Ord. No. O-99-03, 9-20-99)
Sec. 21-9.1. Tampering with Meters or Breaking Seals
   Anyone, not an authorized employee of the City, in any manner tampering with
a water meter or breaking a water meter seal, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 21-10. Service Connections Generally – Installation on Streets to be Paved
or Improved.
   Before any streets or alleys are paved or otherwise improved, the Clerk
shall notify each owner of premises abutting upon the proposed improvement, if
his whereabouts be known to the Clerk, to install a copper water service from
the watermain to the property line of such premises, in the event such copper
water service has not been previously installed and is not in good condition.
At the expiration of ten (10) days after such notice, if such owner shall have
failed or neglected to install such copper water service and likewise in the
event the whereabouts of such owner is unknown to the Clerk, the City may cause
such service to be installed at the expense of such property owner. In that
event, such cost shall become an indebtedness owing from such owner to the City
recoverable by the City in an action of assumpsit. (5-9-55, § 16)
Sec. 21-11. Same – Maintenance; Cutting Pavement or Improved Surface to
Install; Repairs.
   All water service connections between any watermain in the water supply
system and the premises served thereby shall be kept in good condition and
repair and free of leaks at the sole cost and expense of the owner of the
premises, and all such repairs shall be under the supervision of an authorized
employee of the City. Any such repairing of water services may be done by the
City at the expense of the owner of such premises, if such owner shall fail to
cause such repairs to be made when necessary, and the entire cost thereof shall
be a lien upon such premises and may be assessed against such premises in the
same manner as above specified with reference to new copper water services. (5-
9-55, § 16)
Sec. 21-12. Same – Connection to Hydrant; Meters for Large Projects; Persons to
be Charged; Termination Notice to Clerk.
   For service as allowed by Sec. 21-15(a) an authorized employee of the City
shall install the required size connection and control valve on the hydrant and
the user must connect to such control valve and connection for his supply. Such
connection and control valve must be removed at the end of each day's operation
by the user. Any loss or damage to the connection, valve or operating wrench
will be charged to the person making the application for the use of the
hydrant.
   In the case of large construction projects the Clerk may, at his discretion,
require an appropriate meter to be installed, and the regular rates for water
service will be charged.
   Charges for water used during construction will be made against the owner of
the premises upon which such construction is being undertaken unless other
arrangements are made with the Clerk and approved by him.
   The Clerk shall be immediately notified when the requirements for water
service are terminated. (5-9-55, § 17)
Sec. 21-13. Construction of Sewer, Drains, etc., Near City Well or Water
Supply.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay or construct any sewer or drain
or other facilities for the conduct or disposition of any sewage or other waste
within a radius of two hundred feet (200') of any City well or source of supply
of the water distribution system of the City; provided, that where it shall be
determined by the City Engineer that an impervious earth structure exists
between the source of water supply and the surface of the earth in the area
surrounding the source of water supply extending beyond the radius of one
hundred feet (100') from such source, a permit may be granted by the Council to
construct a sanitary sewer according to specifications prescribed by the City
Engineer and stated in such permit at least one hundred feet (100') away from
such City well or source of water supply; and provided that nothing herein
contained shall prohibit the construction of any drain exclusively for the
purpose of conducting or disposing of surface water directed away from any such
City well or source of water supply. (5-13-46, § 1)
Sec. 21-14. Depositing Refuse or Garbage near City Well or Water Supply.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit any garbage or other
refuse or waste upon any premises within a radius of two hundred feet of any
City well or source of water supply connected with the water distribution
system of the City. (5-13-46, § 2)
   Division 2: Rates, Charges and Bills
For Charter provisions as to utility rates, see Char., § 14.3.
As to collection of charges, see Char., § 14.4.
For state law as to establishment of water rates, see M.C.L.A. § 106.6.
As to collection of charges, see M.C.L.A. §§ 123.161 to 123.167.
Sec. 21-15. Establishment of Fees and Charges Generally.
a.   The Council shall, by resolutions passed from time to time, establish the
amount of the fees and charges to be paid by owners and occupants of premises
using the municipal water system and by the City for its fire hydrants. Tapping
fees for water taps, service pipes and installations of service lines between a
watermain and curb shutoff boxes shall be as are established from time to time
by resolution of the Council. Fees for water obtained from fire hydrants of the
system for construction work shall also be established by resolution of the
Council from time to time.
b.   In no case shall the fees and charges established by the Council pursuant
to the provisions of Subsection a. of this Section fall below those rates
established for such services by Ordinance Number 201 of the City dated May 9,
1955.
c.   A copy of any resolution establishing fees and charges pursuant to the
provisions of this Section shall be kept on file in the Office of the City
Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection.
Sec. 21-16. Remedies for Collection of Delinquent Charges.
   The rates and charges for water service furnished to any premises shall at
once become a lien thereon, and any such charges delinquent for six (6) months
or more shall be certified annually by the Clerk to the City Assessor, who
shall enter such delinquent charges upon the next general City tax roll against
the premises to which such service shall have been rendered. Such rates and
charges shall be collected and such liens shall be enforced in the same manner
as provided for the collection of taxes assessed upon such roll and the
enforcement of the lien therefor. The Clerk shall, within the period of thirty
(30) days prior to June 1 of each year, prepare a certificate containing: the
legal descriptions of each of the premises against which any such rates and
charges for water service have been delinquent for a period of six (6) months
or more prior to May 1 or such year; the name and address of the owner or
occupant to whom such water bills have been rendered, or against whom such
charges have been made; and the amount of such delinquent rates and charges and
shall deliver such certificate to the City Assessor on or before June 15 of
each year. It shall thereupon become the duty of such City Assessor to assess
against the several premises therein described the amounts certified to be
delinquent for such rates and charges against such premises, respectively, upon
the general City tax roll for that year.
   In all cases when a tenant is responsible for the payment of any such rates
and charges and the Council is so notified in writing and such notice in
writing includes a true copy of the lease of the affected premises, if there be
one, then no such rate or charge shall become a lien against such premises from
and after the date of such notice. In the event of filing of such notice of
tenancy, the City shall render no further water service to such premises until
a cash deposit in the sum of thirty dollars ($30) shall have been made with the
Clerk as security for the payment of such charges. Such deposit shall be
refunded by the Clerk to the person depositing the same or his assigns in the
event of the discontinuance of such water service or the termination of the
lease of such tenant; provided, that all rates and charges accrued against the
premises affected up to the date of such refund shall have been paid in full.
   In addition to any other lawful enforcement methods, the payment of charges
for water service to any premises may be enforced at any time after such
charges shall become delinquent by discontinuing the water service to such
premises until all of such charges have been paid in full plus an additional
charge of ten dollars ($10) for the reinstatement of such water service. (5-9-
55, § 11)
Sec. 21-17. Free Service.
   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person or to any
public agency or instrumentality. (5-9-55, § 19)
For Charter provision as to free service, see Char., § 14.3
Sec. 21-18. Reading of Meters.
   Water meters shall, when possible, be read quarterly by an employee of the
City as soon as practicable after the close of each of the quarters above
specified and reports of such readings shall be promptly filed with the Clerk.
(5-9-55, § 10)
Sec. 21-19. Issue and Payment of Bills.
   Water bills showing the amount due for the preceding quarter according to
the meter readings shall, as soon as practicable after each quarterly meter
reading, be prepared by the Clerk, and by him delivered personally to or mailed
to the last known post office address of the owner or occupant of the premises
to which such water service is being furnished; such water bills shall be due
and payable within thirty (30) days after the date of such bill, and if not
paid within thirty (30) days, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of
each bill so remaining unpaid shall be added to the total amount due thereon.
The failure of such owner or occupant to receive any water bill shall not
relieve such owner or occupant from liability for the payment of such bill and
the penalty thereon, which liability may be enforced in the manner hereinafter
specified. (5-9-55, § 10)
Sec. 21-20. Fees for reinstatement of service after termination.
   There shall be a service fee of ten dollars ($10) for each time water
service is reinstated after such service has been terminated.
Article II: Municipal Sewage Disposal System
For state law as to sewage systems generally, see M.C.L.A. § 325.201.
As to authority of city to construct and maintain sewage system, see M.C.L.A. §
455.217.
Division 1: Generally
Sec. 21-21. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise:
   B.O.D. - biochemical oxygen demand. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) expressed in parts per
million (ppm) by weight.
   Building drain. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system that receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drain pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   Building sewer. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   Combination sewer/combined sewer. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and
sewage.
   Garbage. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage, processing and sale of produce.
   Industrial wastes. The liquid wastes, solids or semisolids from industrial
processes as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   Natural outlet. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of water, either surface or groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   Properly shredded garbage. The wastes from the cooking, preparation and
dispensing of food that have been cut or shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (½") in any
dimension.
   Public sewer. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   Sanitary sewer. A sewer that carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   Sewage. Any combination of water carried wastes from residences, business,
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   Sewage treatment plant. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   Sewage works. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   Sewer. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying sewage.
   Storm sewer or storm drain. A sewer that carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but which excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   Suspended solids. Solids that either float on the surface of or are
suspended in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SWRC. The State Water Resources Commission or any of their affiliates, the
State Health Department, State Conservation Commission or the State Highway
Department.
   The system or systems. The complete sewage disposal system of the City
including the sewage treatment plant and all appurtenances and all sanitary
sewers of the City now in existence or hereafter acquired.
   Watercourse. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently.
(6-12-61, § 101 to 122; 2-10-58, § 3)
Sec. 21-22. Fiscal Year.
   The system shall be operated on the basis of an operating year commencing on
the first day of July and ending on the last day of the following June. (2-10-
58, § 12)
For Charter provision as to fiscal year of City, see Char., § 9.1.
Sec. 21-23. Conflict of Article with State or County Requirements.
   No statement contained in this Article shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Board of Health
or by the SWRC. (6-12-61, § 304)
Sec. 21-24. Administration of System.
   The operation, repair and management of the system shall be under the
supervision and control of the City Manager subject to overall supervision and
control of the Council. The Council may make such rules, orders and regulations
as they deem necessary to assure the efficient management and operation of the
system. (2-10-58, § 7)
For Charter provision as to administration of system, see Char., § 14.2.
For state law as to administration of system, see M.C.L.A. § 123.737.
Sec. 21-25. Deposit of Sewage Wastes Generally; Improperly Treated Sewage
Flowing from Outlet of Unknown Origin.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon any public or private property within
the City any sewage wastes. Such waste shall be disposed of into a public
operated sewage system when available or when not available into a private
sewage system as hereinafter provided. Whenever the building inspector shall
determine that improperly treated sewage is flowing from the outlet of any
public or private drain of unknown course and origin, he may issue public
notices requiring persons owning premises from which such sewage originates to
connect such sewage flow to a publicly operated sewerage system, if available,
or in the absence thereof to comply with the provisions of Article III. Public
notice shall consist of the posting of at least five (5) conspicuous notices in
the probable area served by such drain. After not less than sixty (60) days
following posting of the notices the building inspector may plug or cause to be
plugged the outlet of such drain until such time as the source(s) of the sewage
have been located. Owners of properties known to be discharging improperly
treated sewage in such drain posted by the building inspector, shall be given
written notice of corrections required within the time allowed by the posted
notices. Failure to comply shall be considered a violation of this Section. (2-
11-63, § 2.2)
Sec. 21-26. Deposit of Excrement on Public or Private Property.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon any public or private property within
the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City any human or animal
excrement. (6-12-61, § 201)
Sec. 21-27. Discharges into Natural Watercourse or other Areas Within
Jurisdiction of City.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural watercourse within the
City or on any area under the jurisdiction of the City any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with standards established by the SWRC. (6-12-61, §
202)
Sec. 21-28. Installation and Connection of Toilet Facilities in Houses, etc.,
Within Two Hundred Feet of Sewer.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the City and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the City is hereby
required at his own expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and
to connect such facilities directly to the public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this Article, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so has been issued by the City health officer or City Manager;
provided, that such public sewer is within two hundred feet (200') of the
nearest building to be served. (6-12-61, § 204)
Sec. 21-29. Connection to Public Sewer upon its Becoming Available.
   Where a public sewer passes within two hundred feet (200') of a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in Sec. 21-28, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this Article.
Any septic tank, privy, privy vault, cesspool or similar private sewage
disposal facility shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material. (6-12-
61, § 302)
Sec. 21-30. Permits for Connection, etc. – Required.
   No authorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or any appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Manager or his duly
authorized representatives. (6-12-61, § 401)
Sec. 21-31. Same – Forms; Fees.
   All connections with the sanitary or combined sewers of the City shall be
made only on written authorization and permits issued by the City on such forms
and on payments of such fees as shall be established from time to time by the
City. (6-12-61, § 402)
Sec. 21-32. Installation, Maintenance and Connection of Building Sewers;
Location of Sanitary Sewer Service Leads.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, maintenance and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner of the property.
The owner shall indemnify the City from all loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation and maintenance of the building
sewer. The City will give locations and depths of sanitary sewer service leads
according to the records on file in the City Hall. The City will assume no
responsibility for the accuracy of the dimensions given by the City. (6-12-61,
§ 403; Ord. of 1-19-87)
Sec. 21-33. Installation of Water or Sewage Meters.
   All premises connected to the system shall have a water meter or a sewage
meter as determined by the City Manager. Such meter shall be furnished and
installed in a suitable location by the property owner. (6-28-71, § 1)
Sec. 21-34. Reserved.
Sec. 21-35. Discharge of Water into Sanitary Sewer.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer. (6-12-61, § 501)
Sec. 21-36. Discharge of Unpolluted Drainage and Industrial Cooling or Process
Waters into Combined or Storm Sewers.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to
a natural outlet approved by the City or the SWRC. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the City into a
storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. (6-12-61, § 502)
Sec. 21-37. Materials Not to be Discharged into Public Sewers.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into any public
sewer:
   a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees (150º) Fahrenheit.
   b.   Any water or waste that may contain more than one hundred (100) ppm by
weight of fat, oil or grease.
   c.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   d.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   e.   Any ashes, cinders, sand mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, wood pulp, paunch manure or any other solid or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
   f.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to the
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
   g.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans, animals, fish or aquatic life or create any
hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   h.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage disposal plant.
   i.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
   j.   Any live animals or fish.
(6-12-61, § 503; Ord. No. O-91-09, 12-16-91)
Sec. 21-38. Grease, Oil and Sand Interceptors – Required; Construction.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the City Manager or the SWRC, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, inflammable wastes or
other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   All interceptors shall be a type and capacity approved by the City Manager
or SWRC and shall be located as to be readily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be substantially constructed, watertight and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be airtight and watertight.
(6-12-61, § 504)
Sec. 21-39. Same – Maintenance.
   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained
by the owner at his expense in continuously efficient operation. (6-12-61, §
505)
Sec. 21-40. Discharges Subject to Approval; Preliminary Treatment Generally.
   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having the
following characteristics shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Council or the SWRC:
   a.   Five-day BOD greater than three hundred (300) ppm by weight;
   b.   Containing more than three hundred fifty (350) ppm by weight of
suspended solids;
   c.   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in Sec. 21-37; or
   d.   Having a daily average flow greater than two percent (2%) of the
average daily sewage flow of the City.
   Where necessary in the opinion of the Council or the SWRC, the owner shall
provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
   a.   Reduce the BOD to three hundred (300) ppm and the suspended solids to
three hundred fifty (350) ppm by weight;
   b.   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in Sec. 21-37; or
   c.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for approval of
the Council and the SWRC. No construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until such approvals are obtained in writing. (6-12-61, § 506)
Sec. 21-41. Maintenance of Preliminary Treatment Facilities.
   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, the owner at his expense shall maintain them in satisfactory and
effective operation. (6-12-61, § 507)
Sec. 21-42. Installation and Maintenance of Control Manholes.
   When required by the Council or the SWRC, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Council. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (6-12-
61, § 508)
Sec. 21-43. Standards for Analyses of Water and Wastes; Taking of Samples.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in Sections 21-37 and 21-40 shall be
determined in accordance with "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
and Sewage" and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in Sec.
21-42 or upon suitable samples taken at such control manhole. In the event that
no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered
to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which
the building sewer is connected. (6-12-61, § 509)
Sec. 21-44. Special Agreements for Discharge of Industrial Wastes.
   No statement contained in this Article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial concern
relative to industrial wastes. (6-12-61, § 510)
Sec. 21-45. Destruction, etc., of Structures, Appurtenances or Equipment of
System.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with, climb upon or enter any
structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage
works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest
under charge of disorderly conduct where the damage amounts to less than fifty
dollars ($50) and if the damage amounts to more than fifty dollars ($50) then
such charge shall be malicious destruction of property. (6-12-61, § 601)
As to destruction of City property generally, see Sections 13-7 to 13-9 of this
Code.
Sec. 21-46. Right of City to Enter for Inspections, Measurements, Testing, etc.
   The Council and other duly authorized employees of the City and agents of
the SWRC bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
Article at any time during reasonable or usual business hours. (6-12-61, § 701)
Sec. 21-47. Violation of Article – Notice; Correction Generally.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Article, except Sec.
21-45, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the nature of
such violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. (6-12-61, § 801)
Sec. 21-48. Same – Continuation after Time Limit Set by Notice.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in Sec. 21-47 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (6-12-61, § 802)
Sec. 21-49. Same – Indemnification of City for Expense Caused by Violation.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall become
liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage occasioned to the City by
reason of such violation. (6-12-61, § 803)
DIVISION 2: RATES, CHARGES AND BILLS *
   *Charter references – Utility rates, § 14.3; collection of charges, § 14.4.
Sec. 21-50. Free Service.
   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person or to any
public agency or instrumentality. (2-10-58, § 9)
Sec. 21-51. Charges for Service to Premises Generally; Installation of Meters.
   a.   The charges for sewer service for premises connected to the system
shall be measured by the quantity of water shown on the water or sewage meters
and shall be as follows:
 
Water meters under 2" - Domestic Standard Domestic, Commercial or Industrial Use:
   Readiness-to-Serve (min. quarterly bill based on metered water use up to $
4,000 gals./quarter)                                                           41.20
   Rate/1,000 gals. water used per quarter of 5,000 gals. or more/quarter   5.04
Water meters 2" and over - Commercial or Industrial Use only:
   Readiness-to-Serve (min. quarterly bill based on metered water use up to 264.00
4,000 gals./quarter)
   Rate/1,000 gals. water used per quarter of 5,000 gals. or more/quarter   6.30
 
   b.   All premises connected to the system shall have a water meter or a
sewage meter as determined by the City Manager. Such meter shall be furnished
and installed in a suitable location by the property owner. (2-10-58, § 8; 12-
6-71, § 1; 6-4-73, § 1; 7-18-77, § 1; 9-17-84; Ord. of 6-6-88; Ord. No. O-94-
02, 6-20-94; Ord. No. O-95-04, 6-5-95; Ord. No. O-11-05, 7-5-11; Ord. No. O-17-
04, 6-19-17; Ord. No. O-20-02, 5-18-20; Ord. No. O-23-07, 11-6-23)
Sec. 21-52. Commercial customers; Schools and Churches.
   Commercial customers are those establishments whose primary function is
other than providing a place of residence. Where a combination of commercial
uses include apartments, the customer shall be classified as commercial.
   Quarterly charges for sewer service shall be based on the actual amount of
water used during the quarter.
   Schools and churches shall be billed as residential customers. (12-6-71, §
1)
Sec. 21-53. Miscellaneous Services; Special Rates for Large User of Water not
Discharged into System.
   For miscellaneous services for which, in the judgement of the Council, a
special rate should be established, such rates shall be fixed and established
from time to time by the Council. Where a user uses a large amount of water,
which is not discharged into the sanitary sewer system, a special rate for
sewer service for such user may be established. (2-10-58, 8; 12-6-71, § 1)
Sec. 21-54. Special sewer rate for commercial laundromats and drycleaner
establishments.
   The charges for sanitary sewer service for commercial laundromats and
drycleaner establishments shall be at a ten (10%) percent discounted rate from
the established rates in sec.
21-51.
(Ord. No. O-19-04, 2-4-19)
Sec. 21-55. Reserved.
Sec. 21-56. Additional Charges for Discharges of Unusual Burden on System;
Preliminary Treatment; Denial of Right to Discharge.
   If the character of sewage from any manufacturing or industrial plant or any
other building or premises shall be such as to impose an unreasonable
additional burden upon the sewers or sewage treatment plant of the system, then
an additional charge may be made over and above the regular rates, or it may be
required that such sewage be treated by the person responsible therefor before
being emptied into the sewer, or the right to empty such sewage may be denied
if necessary for the protection of the sewer and sewage disposal facilities of
the system or the public health and safety. (2-10-58, § 10)
Sec. 21-57. Fees for Connection to System Generally.
   Charges for connections to the system shall be at actual cost plus an
inspection fee for each sewer connection made. Where a sewer line runs along
one side of a street or highway, the City Manager, subject to the approval of
the Council, shall be authorized to equalize such actual cost between
connectors on either side of the street or highway as the equities may require.
The amount of the inspection fee shall be determined from time to time by
resolution of the Council. (2-10-58, § 8; 12-6-71, § 1; 11-19-79)
Sec. 21-58. Fees for Connection to Trunkline Sanitary Sewer.
   In addition to the regular special assessment to be established by the
Council for the construction of sanitary sewer lines leading from the trunkline
sanitary sewer that runs from the sewer plant to the intersection of Oak Street
and Connie Avenue, there is hereby established a connection fee for every
connection made to any sewer line that runs into the trunkline sanitary sewer.
   The connection fee shall be an amount equal to twenty dollars ($20) per acre
of area of land serviced by each connection; provided, that in no event shall
the connection fee be less than ten dollars ($10). (9-11-61, § 1, 2)
Sec. 21-59. Issuance and Payment of Bills.
   Billing for sewer charges shall be made quarterly and shall be due and
payable thirty days after date of such bill. For all bills not paid when due, a
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such bill shall be added. (2-10-
58, § 8; 12-6-71, § 1)
Sec. 21-60. Remedies for Collection of Delinquent Accounts; Tenants Solely
Liable for Payment.
   The charges for sewer services, which are under the provisions of M.C.L.A. §
141.121, made a lien on all premises served thereby, unless notice is given
that a tenant is responsible, are hereby recognized to constitute such lien.
Whenever any such charge against any piece of property shall be delinquent for
six (6) months, the City official in charge of the collection thereof shall
certify annually, on April first of each year, to the tax assessing officer of
the City the fact of such delinquency whereupon such charge shall be entered by
him upon the next tax roll as a charge against such premises and shall be
collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as general City
taxes against such premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced;
provided, however, where notice is given that a tenant is responsible for such
charge and service as provided by M.C.L.A. § 5.2751, no further service shall
be rendered such premises until a cash deposit of not less than twenty-five
dollars ($25) shall have been made as security for payment of such charges and
service.
   In addition to other remedies provided, the City shall have the right to
shut off and discontinue the supply of water to any premises for the nonpayment
of sewer rates when due. If such charges are not paid within thirty (30) days
after the due date thereof, then water services to such premises shall be
discontinued. Water services so discontinued shall not be restored until all
sums then due and owing shall be paid plus a turn-on charge as may from time to
time be determined by resolution of the Council. (2-10-58, § 8; 12-6-71, § 1)
Article III: Private Sewage Disposal Systems.
For Charter provisions as to regulation of construction, etc., of buildings and
their appurtenances, see Char., § 2.2 (28).
Sec. 21-61. Definitions.
   For purposes of this Article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
   Automatic siphon. A bell and siphon arrangement that controls intermittent
flow of effluent from the dosing tank into the subsurface disposal system
according to the compression of air under the bell.
   Building inspector. The building inspector of the City or his duly
authorized representative.
   Dosing tank. A watertight tank or receptacle used or intended for use for
the purpose of receiving and retaining the effluent or overflow of a septic
tank until discharged by an automatic siphon or pump.
   Septic tank. A watertight tank or receptacle used for the purpose of
receiving wastes from flush toilets, sinks, lavatories, bathtubs, showers,
laundry drains and any other similar waste lines and intended to provide for
the separation of substantial portions of the suspended solids in such wastes
and the partial destruction by bacterial action on the solids so separated.
   Sewage. The liquid wastes from all habitable buildings and shall include
human excreta and wastes from sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry and
any other water carried wastes of organic nature, either singly or in any
combination thereof.
   Sewer. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying sewage.
   Subsurface disposal system. An arrangement for distributing septic tank
effluent or overflow below the ground surface. (2-11-63, § 1.1 to 1.8)
Sec. 21-62. Construction or Maintenance of Privies, Privy Vaults, Septic Tanks,
Cesspools, etc., Generally.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (6-12-61, § 203)
For state law as to privies, septic tanks, etc., generally, see M.C.L.A. §
333.12771
Sec. 21-63. Water Flush Systems where Connection to Public Sewer is Not
Required.
   Every residence, place of business or other building or place where persons
congregate, reside or are employed, and which is not required to be connected
to any public sanitary sewer shall be provided with a private water flush
toilet by the owner or agent of the premises. Such water flush toilet system
shall be built, rebuilt, constructed and maintained in such a manner as to meet
the requirements of construction and maintenance hereinafter prescribed. (7-13-
42, § 3)
Sec. 21-64. Use of Building Not Provided with Flush Toilet Connected to a
Sewage System.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain, occupy or use any residence, place of
business or other building or place where persons reside, congregate or are
employed in the City, which is not provided with means for the disposal of
human excreta by a flush toilet connected with a sewerage system approved by
the Michigan Department of Health. (7-13-42, § 1)
Sec. 21-65. Construction Permits – Required; Issuance.
   No person shall begin construction of any sewage disposal facility as
defined in these minimum standards until such person or his duly authorized
representative has made written application to the building inspector or his
duly authorized representative and has received a duly signed construction
permit from the building inspector. Such permit shall be issued only when a
suitable sketch showing all pertinent dimensions of the installation has been
submitted for consideration by the building inspector. Such permit shall be
signed by the applicant and by the building inspector or his duly authorized
representative. (2-11-63, § 3.1)
Sec. 21-66. Same – Fees.
   A fee of five dollars ($5) shall be charged for each such permit issued for
the installation of a sewerage disposal system as defined herein. This fee
shall be made payable to the City Treasurer. (2-11-63, § 3.3)
Sec. 21-67. Inspections.
   The building inspector or his duly authorized agent shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the building inspector when the work is ready for
final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. (2-11-63, §
3.2)
Sec. 21-68. Septic tanks – Location.
   Septic tanks shall be located at least fifty feet (50') from any potable
water supply, well, spring or unprotected water suction line; except, that in
the case of schools, resorts, trailer parks, restaurants, taverns or other
dwellings or habitable buildings that serve the public such distance shall be
seventy-five feet (75'), except where the Michigan Department of Health
regulations require a greater distance or upon the written approval of the
building inspector or his duly authorized representative an exception is
granted. No septic tank shall be located closer than five feet (5') to any
footing or foundation wall. No septic tank shall be placed within ten feet
(10') of any lot lines or within twenty-five feet (25') of any lake, creek,
river, pond or other body of water. No septic tank shall be located where it is
inaccessible for cleaning or inspection, nor shall any structure be placed over
any septic tank rendering it inaccessible for cleaning or inspection. Cast iron
sewer shall be installed within a fifty-foot (50') radius of a private well and
within a seventy-five foot radius (75') of a public well. (2-11-63, § 4.1)
Sec. 21-69. Same – Materials and Construction Generally.
   Septic tanks shall be watertight construction and of a material not subject
to decay or corrosion when installed. Concrete blocks or bricks at least eight
inches (8") in thickness may be used in septic tank construction. Cinder blocks
shall not be approved for septic tank construction. Septic tanks shall be
provided with one (1) or more suitable openings with watertight covers to
permit cleaning and inspection. The outlet from such tank shall be constructed
so as to permit flow of liquid from the tank and to prevent the escape of
floating or settled solids. The inlet shall be designed to permit gasses to
collect above the liquid level and to pass through the inlet and out the vent
pipe serving the sewer leading into the septic tank. (2-11-63, § 4.2)
Sec. 21-70. Same – Capacity.
   Every septic tank installed after February 11, 1963 shall have a liquid
capacity of at least the average volume of sewage flowing into it during any
twenty-four- (24) hour period. In no case shall the liquid capacity of any
septic tank be less than seven hundred fifty (750) gallons. If a compartmented
tank is installed, the first compartment shall have two-thirds (2/3's) of the
total capacity.
   The following capacity for septic tanks shall be required, except where, in
the opinion of the building inspector or his duly authorized representative,
increased capacities may be required:
   One- or two- bedroom dwelling: seven hundred fifty (750) gallons; with
garbage grinder: one thousand, one hundred (1,100) gallons.
   Three-bedroom dwelling: nine hundred (900) gallons; with garbage grinder:
one thousand, three hundred, fifty (1,350) gallons.
   Four-bedroom dwelling: one thousand, one hundred (1,100) gallons; with
garbage grinder: one thousand, five hundred (1,500) gallons.
(2-11-63, § 4.3)
Sec. 21-71. Same – Dosing Tanks.
   The building inspector or his duly authorized representative may require
that dosing tanks provided with automatic siphons or pumps or a type approved
by the State Department of Health be used on installations where the liquid
capacity of the septic tank is two thousand (2,000) gallons or more. (2-11-63,
§ 4.4)
Sec. 21-72. Subsurface disposal – Generally.
   Septic tank effluent shall not be disposed of into a lake, stream,
watercourse, open ditch, county drain, storm sewer or allowed to seep on the
ground surface; but shall be disposed of in a subsurface disposal system of
design and capacity as hereinafter provided. (2-11-63, § 5.1)
Sec. 21-73. Same – Location.
   Subsurface disposal systems shall be located at least fifty feet (50') from
any potable water supply, well casing, spring structure or unprotected water
suction line, except where the State Department of Health requires a greater
distance. Such drainfields shall be located at least ten feet (10') from a lot
line, twenty-five feet (25') from any lake, pond, creek or other surface water
flooding and at least ten feet (10') from any habitable building or dwelling.
(2-11-63, § 5.2)
Sec. 21-74. Same – Headers; Distribution Boxes.
   Watertight headers shall be set true and level so as to afford an even
distribution of all septic tank effluent throughout the subsurface disposal
field. A distribution box or other approved equivalent device may be required
for installation where site conditions would not otherwise ensure proper
distribution of septic tank effluent within the allowable limits of grade and
depth of distribution lines. (2-11-63, § 5.3)
Sec. 21-75. Same – Size of Drain Tile.
   Drain tile used in a subsurface disposal system shall have a diameter of not
less than four inches (4"). (2-11-63 § 5.4)
Sec. 21-76. Same – Depth, Slope and Length of Lines; Construction of Lines.
   The top of the subsurface distribution lines shall be not less than twelve
inches (12") or more than thirty inches (30") below the finished surface grade.
   The slope of the distribution lines shall be not more than four inches per
one hundred feet (4"/100').
   The length of any one lateral line shall not exceed one hundred feet (100').
   Distribution lines shall be constructed to properly disperse all of the
septic tank effluent throughout the subsurface disposal area. Tile joints shall
be covered with building paper strips four to six inches (4-6") wide. (2-11-63,
§ 5.5)
Sec. 21-77. Same – Filter Material; Trench Construction.
   Subsurface disposal system lines for distributing septic tank effluent for
direct soil absorption shall be laid over at least four inches (4") of washed
stone from one-half to one inch (½-1") in size or an equivalent aggregate
approved by the building inspector or his duly authorized representative.
   Trenches shall be not less than eighteen inches (18") wide or more than
twenty-four inches (24") wide at the bottom. Washed stone or such other
aggregate as may be necessary to prevent the filtering of backfill material
around the lateral distribution lines shall be spread over the distribution
line to a depth of at least two inches (2"). (2-11-63, § 5.6)
Sec. 21-78. Same – Field Area; Soil Percolation Tests.
   Subsurface disposal field areas shall comply with the following minimum
trench bottom areas depending upon the average daily volume of septic tank
effluent and the type of soil in the drain area based on the following
percolation rates:
   0-5 minutes      225 square feet (ft.2) absorption area
   5-15 minutes      300-600 square feet (ft.2) absorption area
   15-30 minutes      600-750 square feet (ft.2) absorption area
   30-45 minutes      750-900 square feet (ft.2) absorption area
   45-60 minutes      900-1150 square feet (ft.2) absorption area
   Percolation rates above sixty (60) minutes indicate that the soil is
unsuitable for subsurface disposal systems.
   No subsurface disposal system hereafter installed shall contain less than
two hundred twenty-five square feet (225 ft.2) of trench bottom absorption
area. No subsurface system hereafter installed shall contain less than one
hundred fifty lineal feet (150') of field tile. The subsurface disposal field
shall contain at least one (1) lineal foot of drain tile or other approved
conduit for every two square feet (2 ft.2) of trench bottom.
   Soil percolation tests shall be required in all clay soils before minimum
drainage areas can be specified on the permit. Test holes shall be dug and
filled with water by the applicant for the permit, but notice shall be given to
the building inspector or his duly authorized representative to check the drop
in water level and record results of such test.
   When bed area absorption systems are used, the above absorption areas shall
be increased by fifty percent (50%). (2-11-63, § 5.7)
Sec. 21-79. Systems Where Subsurface Disposal is Not Suitable.
   When conditions are not suitable for installation of a subsurface disposal
field for the disposal of sewage, the building inspector or his duly authorized
representative may approve other methods safeguarding the public health. (2-11-
63, § 5.8)
Sec. 21-80. Nonconforming Systems – Declared Nuisances; Orders to Abate.
   Any private sewage disposal system existing or being maintained, which does
not conform to the requirements of this Article is hereby declared a nuisance,
dangerous and a menace to the public health. The building inspector of the City
shall order the abatement of such nuisance according to the laws of the State.
(2-11-63, § 6.1)
For Charter provisions as to nuisances and the abatement, see Char., §2.2(13).
Sec. 21-81. Same – Abatement by City and Assessment of Costs against Owner or
Occupant.
   In case the owner or occupant of any premises shall neglect or refuse to
abate such nuisance or to construct and maintain such sewage disposal system as
required by this Article, within sixty (60) days or such time as determined by
the building inspector of notice to comply therewith, the City shall cause the
work to be done at the expense of such owner or occupant. The actual cost of
such work shall constitute a lien upon the premises affected and may be
included in the taxes assessed against such premises upon the general tax roll
of the City and collected in the same manner as general City taxes. (2-11-63, §
6.2)
Sec. 21-82. Enforcement of Article.
   It shall be the duty of the building inspector to enforce strictly the
provisions of this Article. In the performance of this duty, the building
inspector or his duly authorized agent is hereby authorized to enter at any
reasonable hour any premises as may be necessary in the enforcement of this
Article. (2-11-63, § 7.1)
CHAPTER 22.
ZONING.
Editor's Note: The zoning code is available for viewing by clicking on this
link: http://www.cityoffremont.net/web/planzone.htm
Chapter 23
MEDICAL MARIHUANA
Article I. In General
§
23-1.   Definitions.
§
23-2.   Prohibition on medical marihuana dispensaries.
§
23-3.   Regulations regarding primary caregiver’s residential dwelling.
§
23-4.   Regulations regarding qualifying patients.
§
23-5.   Required compliance with federal law.
§
23-6.   General regulations.
§
23-7.   Responsibility for the premises.
                   
   Cross reference – Licensing of medical marihuana,
11-85 – 
11-87.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 23-1. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases shall have the following meanings for
purposes of this article:
   (a)   “Act” means the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Public Act 2008,
Initiated Law 1, being M.C.L. 333.26421 et seq., as well as any and all
amendments thereto, and also any legislation enacted into law to implement that
statute.
   (b)   “Marihuana” is also known as Marijuana and Cannabis.
   (c)   “Medical Marihuana Dispensary” means any business, facility,
association, cooperative, location or operation, whether fixed or mobile, where
medical marihuana is sold, grown, processed, delivered, transmitted, dispensed,
or distributed by or to one or more of the following:
      (1)   A primary caregiver (as defined by Michigan Initiated Law I of
2008, as amended, being MCL 333.26421 et seq., as amended).
      (2)   A qualifying patient (as defined by Michigan Initiated Law I of
2008, as amended, being MCL 333.26421 et seq., as amended).
   A medical marihuana dispensary shall also include any place, location,
facility, or operation, whether fixed or mobile, where medical marihuana is
consumed on the property of a business, association, cooperative, or commercial
operation or facility or on a public or government property.
   A medical marihuana dispensary does not include the lawful dispensation of
medical marihuana by a primary caregiver personally dispensing to not more than
five (5) qualified patients (as defined by Michigan Initiated Law 1 of 2008, as
amended, being MCL 333.26421 et seq., as amended) so long as the primary
caregiver personally delivers the lawful amount of medical marihuana to the
qualifying patient where the qualifying patient resides and it is done in full
compliance with not only this article but also any other applicable City of
Fremont Ordinance or Code provision.
   (c)   “Medical Use of Marihuana” is the acquisition, possession,
cultivation, manufacture, use, delivery, transfer or transportation of
marihuana or paraphernalia relating to the administration of marihuana to treat
or alleviate a qualifying patient's debilitating medical condition or symptoms
associated with the debilitating medical condition, as defined by the Act.
   (d)   “Primary Caregiver” shall be as defined by the Act.
   (e)   “Qualifying Patient” shall be as defined by the Act.
   (f)   “Residential dwelling” shall be defined as a lawful owner-occupied,
detached single-family residential dwelling. (Ord. O-11-07, 8-15-11)
Sec. 23-2. Prohibition on Medical Marihuana Dispensaries.
   No medical marihuana dispensary shall be commenced, established, conducted,
maintained, operated or utilized anywhere within the City of Fremont or on or
from any property within the City of Fremont. (Ord. O-11-07, 8-15-11)
Sec. 23-3. Regulations Regarding Primary Caregiver’s Residential Dwelling.
   The following regulations generally pertain to the residential dwelling of a
primary caregiver:
   (a)   The primary caregiver may grow and process marihuana in compliance
with the Act within an owner-occupied, detached single-family residential
dwelling where the primary caregiver lives and is the primary caregiver’s
residence pursuant to Michigan Law. No such residential dwelling of the primary
caregiver shall be located within an apartment building, multi-family
residential building or similar housing building or development, but rather,
shall occur only within a lawful detached single-family residential dwelling.
   (b)   No person other than the primary caregiver (and no person under 18
years of age) who resides in an owner-occupied, detached single-family
residential dwelling shall be engaged or involved in the growing, processing,
dispensing, delivery, or handling of the marihuana.
   (c)   Use of the residential dwelling (which is the residence of the primary
caregiver) for medical marihuana related purposes shall be clearly incidental
and subordinate to its use for single-family residential purposes. Not more
than 25% of the gross finished floor area of the dwelling or 200 square feet of
floor area of the dwelling, whichever is less, shall be used for the growing,
processing and handling of the marihuana. No part of an accessory building,
detached garage, pole barn or similar building or structure shall be used for
the growing, processing or distribution of marihuana.
   (d)   No qualifying patient shall visit, come to or be present at the
residential dwelling of the primary caregiver to purchase, smoke, consume,
obtain or receive possession of any marihuana; rather, the primary caregiver
must personally deliver any medical marihuana to a qualifying patient at the
residence of that qualifying patient.
   (e)   No person shall deliver marihuana to a qualifying patient other than
the primary caregiver for that qualifying patient. The primary caregiver must
personally deliver the marihuana to his/her qualifying patient.
   (f)   There shall be no visible change to the outside appearance of the
primary caregiver’s residential dwelling or other visible evidence of the
conduct of the medical marihuana operation occurring inside the residential
dwelling.
   (g)   No marihuana, marihuana plants, marihuana paraphernalia or plant
growing apparatus shall be visible from the exterior of the dwelling.
   (h)   No growing, processing, smoking or use of marihuana shall occur
outdoors. All medical marihuana growing, processing and handling shall occur
entirely within the dwelling.
   (i)   No sale or distribution of merchandise or products shall be conducted
on, within or from the residential dwelling (including the lot or parcel
involved) of the primary caregiver apart from the medical marihuana itself.
Therefore, if a permit to be a medical marihuana caregiver is granted, no home
occupation will be allowed in the residential dwelling of the caregiver.
   (j)   No equipment or process shall be used in growing, processing or
handling medical marihuana, which creates noise, vibration, glare, light,
fumes, odors, or electrical interference detectable to the normal senses
outside the residential dwelling. In case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
with any radio, television or similar receiver off the premises or causes
fluctuation of line voltage off the premises. The residential dwelling of the
primary caregiver shall meet all building, housing, fire and local and state
codes and ordinance requirements.
   (k)   The growing, processing, distribution, sale and handling of medical
marihuana shall comply at all times and all circumstances with the Act and any
applicable regulations or requirements by the Michigan Department of Community
Health or any other Michigan agency.
   (l)   The residential dwelling for the primary caregiver shall be located
more than 1,000 feet from any school, library or day care center as defined by
Michigan law to ensure community compliance with federal “Drug-Free School
Zone” requirements and to minimize negative impacts. The residential dwelling
for the primary caregiver shall be located more than 500 feet from any City-
owned playground/park.
   (m)   Not more than one (1) primary caregiver shall be permitted to grow,
process or handle medical marihuana at or from a given dwelling unit.
   (n)   All medical marihuana shall be contained within the primary
caregiver’s residential dwelling (except when being delivered by the primary
caregiver to a qualifying patient off site) and in an enclosed, locked facility
inaccessible on all sides and equipped with locks and other security devices
that permit access only by the registered primary caregiver. Any person under
eighteen (18) years old shall not have any access to any medical marihuana.
   (o)   No on-site consumption or smoking of marihuana is allowed within the
residential dwelling (or on the lot or parcel) of a primary caregiver except
for any medical marihuana consumption by the primary caregiver himself/herself
if he/she is a qualifying patient and in full compliance with the Act.
   (p)   No medical marihuana shall be grown, processed or handled at, from or
through the residential dwelling of the primary caregiver beyond that which is
needed or allowed by law (whichever is less) for the qualifying patients of
that particular primary caregiver.
   (q)   No sign in the form of a device, structure, fixture or placard using
graphics, symbols, and/or written copy designed specifically for the purpose of
advertising or identifying an establishment, product, service or activity and
in this case identifying the residential dwelling as being a place where
medical marihuana is grown, sold, processed, kept, or distributed shall be
visible outside of the residential dwelling or within any of the windows of the
residential dwelling. No sign or other advertising materials identifying a
particular dwelling or property as being associated with the use or cultivation
of medical marihuana or marihuana in general shall be displayed, posted or
distributed. (Ord. O-11-07, 8-15-11)
Sec. 23-4. Regulations Regarding Qualifying Patients.
   (a)   A primary caregiver is required to deliver marihuana to his/her
qualifying patients at the residence where the particular qualifying patient
resides. A qualifying patient shall not go to the residence of their primary
caregiver to purchase, obtain, smoke or consume marihuana.
   (b)   Use of marihuana by a qualifying patient shall fully comply with this
Article and the Act. (Ord. O-11-07, 8-15-11)
Sec. 23-5. Required Compliance with Federal Law.
   (a)   Nothing in this Code is intended to grant, nor shall any provisions of
this Code be construed as granting immunity from prosecution for the growing,
sale, consumption, use, smoking, distribution or possession of marihuana which
is not in strict compliance with the Act, this Code and all other applicable
laws and regulations.
   (b)   Since federal laws are not affected by the Act or this Code, nothing
in this Code is intended to grant, nor shall it be construed as granting
immunity from criminal prosecution under federal law. The Act and this Code do
not protect users, primary caregivers, qualifying patients or the owners of
properties on which medical use of marihuana is occurring from federal
prosecution or from having their property seized by federal authorities under
the Federal Controlled Substances Act, as amended. (Ord. O-11-07, 8-15-11)
Sec. 23-6. General Regulations.
   (a)   No medical marihuana shall be grown, utilized, smoked, consumed,
processed, distributed, or handled within 1,000 feet of any school, library or
day care center or within 500 feet of any City-owned playground/park.
Notwithstanding such prohibitions, a qualifying patient may possess and smoke
or consume lawful medical marihuana inside of the qualifying patient’s
residence.
   (b)   No medical marihuana shall be grown, utilized, smoked, consumed,
distributed, or handled within a dwelling or on a residential lot or parcel
within 1,000 feet of the residential dwelling of another primary caregiver.
Notwithstanding such prohibitions, a qualifying patient may possess and smoke
or consume lawful medical marihuana inside of the qualifying patient’s
residence.
   (c)   The smoking or consumption of marihuana shall not occur in any public
place.
   (d)   Every primary caregiver, qualifying patient and any other person shall
comply at all times and all circumstances with the Act and the regulations of
the Michigan Department of Community Health, as may be amended from time to
time.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful to give, sell, dispense, or otherwise distribute
medical marihuana (or any marihuana) to anyone other than a primary caregiver
or qualifying patient.
   (f)   Every primary caregiver shall maintain an accurate and complete
written record of all medical marihuana purchased, sold, distributed, or
dispensed by or through the primary caregiver which shall include, at a
minimum, all of the following:
      (1)   The identity of the primary caregiver and qualifying patient
involved in each transaction.
      (2)   The total quantity of, and amount paid for, the medical marihuana
for each transaction.
      (3)   The date, time and location of each transaction.
   (g)   All transactions and the above-required information shall be recorded
and kept in a numerical register in the order of which the transaction occurs.
All such records must be kept in the English language in a legible manner and
must be preserved and made available for inspection by the City for a period of
three (3) years after the date of the transaction.
   (h)   It is unlawful to purchase or otherwise obtain medical marihuana (or
any marihuana) from any source other than a primary caregiver who is authorized
under the Act to sell or dispense medical marihuana to that particular person.
   (i)   The City Council by resolution shall require the issuance of a City
permit by the Fremont Police Department for each medical marihuana primary
caregiver. Permit information shall be kept confidential to the extent the
Freedom of Information Act allows. There shall be an initial permit fee and an
annual permit renewal fee. The primary caregiver will be required to sign an
Affidavit of Compliance in relation to his/her adherence to not only this
Article but also any other applicable City of Fremont Ordinance or Code
provisions related to medical marihuana. (Ord. O-11-07, 8-15-11)
Sec. 23-7. Responsibility for the Premises.
   A primary caregiver shall be responsible (and shall be deemed to be in
violation of this
Chapter 23) for any violation of
Chapter 23 or the Act which occurs in the residential dwelling or lot or parcel
owned by the primary caregiver. (Ord. O-11-07, 8-15-11)
Chapter 24
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
§ 24-1.   Agency designated.
§ 24-2.   Code appendix enforced.
§ 24-3.   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas.
§ 24-4.   Repeals.
Sec. 24-1. Agency designated.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in accordance
with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the City
Manager of the city is hereby designated as the enforcing officer to discharge
the responsibility of the city, under Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as
amended, State of Michigan. The city assumes responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of said Act throughout the corporate limits of
the community adopting this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-15-01, 1-26-15)
Sec. 24-2. Code appendix enforced.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in accordance
with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, Appendix
G of the Michigan Building Code shall be enforced by the enforcing agency
within the jurisdiction of the community adopting this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-15-01, 1-26-15)
Section 24-3. Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
Entitled "Newaygo County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions)" and dated 2/18/2015 and
the Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRMS) panel number(s) of 26123C; 0402D,
0403D, 0404D, and 0406D dated 2/18/2015 are adopted by reference for the
purposes of administration of the Michigan Construction Code, and declared to
be a part of Section 1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code, and to provide the
content of the "Flood Hazards" section of Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan
Residential Code.
(Ord. No. O-15-01, 1-26-15)
Section 24-4. Repeals.
   All ordinances inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. No. O-15-01, 1-26-15)
Chapter 25
RECREATIONAL MARIHUANA
Article I. In General
§
25-1.   Prohibition of marihuana establishments.
§
25-2.   Prohibition on sale and consumption of marihuana in public places.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 25-1. Prohibition of marihuana establishments.
   (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.1 of the Michigan Regulation
and Taxation of Marihuana Act (the "Act"), marihuana establishments, as defined
by the Act, are completely prohibited within the boundaries of the City of
Fremont.
   (b)   Any applicant for a state or local license to establish a marihuana
establishment, as defined by the Act, within the boundaries of the city shall
be deemed to be not in compliance with this chapter or with the Code of
Ordinances amended by the ordinance codified herein.
   (c)   This section does not supersede rights and obligations with respect to
the transportation of marihuana through the city to the extent provided by the
Act, and does not supersede rights and obligations under Michigan law and
Chapter 23 of this Code of Ordinances with respect to the establishment and
licensing of medical marihuana facilities under the Michigan Medical Marihuana
Act, the Medical Marihuana Licensing Act, 2016 PA 281, or any other law of the
State of Michigan allowing for or regulating marihuana for medical use.
(Ord. No. O-18-08, 12-3-18)
Sec. 25-2. Prohibition on sale and consumption of marihuana in public places.
   (a)    In conformance with Sec. 4.1(e) and 6.2(b) of the Act, except as
otherwise provided in this section, the sale or consumption of marihuana in any
form and the sale or display of marihuana accessories, as defined by the Act,
is prohibited in any public places within the city's boundaries.
   (b)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
responsible for civil and criminal penalties as set forth in Section 15 of the
State of Michigan Regulation & Taxation of Marihuana Act, 2018, as it may be
amended, but currently reads as follows:
   “Section 15: 
      A person who commits any of the following acts, and is not otherwise
authorized by this act to conduct such activities, may be punished only as
provided in this section and is not subject to any other form of punishment or
disqualification, unless the person consents to another disposition authorized
by law:
      (a)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described in section 4
(1)(a), 4(1)(b), 4(1)(c), 4(1)(d), 4(1)(g), 4(1)(h), a person who possesses not
more than the amount of marihuana allowed by section 5, cultivates not more
than the amount of marihuana allowed by section 5, delivers without receiving
any remuneration to a person who is at least 21 years of age not more than the
amount of marihuana allowed by section 5, or possesses with intent to deliver
not more than the amount of marihuana allowed by section 5, is responsible for
a civil infraction and may be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and
forfeiture of the marihuana.
      (b)   Except for a person who is engaged in conduct described in section
4, a person who possesses not more than twice the amount of marihuana allowed
by section 5, cultivates not more than twice the amount of marihuana allowed by
section 5, delivers without receiving any remuneration to a person who is at
least 21 years of age not more than twice the amount of marihuana allowed by
section 5, or possesses with intent to deliver not more than twice the amount
of marihuana allowed by section 5:
         (1)   For a first violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and forfeiture of the
marihuana;
         (2)   For a second violation, is responsible for a civil infraction
and may be punished by a fine of not more than $,1000 and forfeiture of the
marihuana;
         (3)   For a third or subsequent violation, is guilty of a misdemeanor
and may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 and forfeiture of the
marihuana.
      (c)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described by section 4
(1)(a), 4(1)(d), or 4(1)(g), a person under 21 years of age who possesses not
more than 2.5 ounces of marihuana or who cultivates not more than 12 marihuana
plants;
         (1)   For a first violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished as follows:
            a.   If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100 or community service, forfeiture of the marihuana, and
completion of 4 hours of drug education or counseling; or
            b.   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100 and forfeiture of the marihuana.
         (2)   For a second violation, is responsible for a civil infraction
and may be punished as follows:
            a.   If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500 or community service, forfeiture of the marihuana, and
completion of 8 hours of drug education or counseling; or
            b.   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500 and forfeiture of the marihuana.
      (d)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described in section 4,
a person who possesses more than twice the amount of marihuana allowed by
section 5, cultivates more than twice the amount of marihuana allowed by
section 5, or delivers without receiving any remuneration to a person who is at
least 21 years of age more than twice the amount of marihuana allowed by
section 5, shall be responsible for a misdemeanor, but shall not be subject to
imprisonment unless the violation was habitual, willful, and for a commercial
purpose or the violation involved violence.
      (e)   This section does not supersede rights and obligations with respect
to the transfer and consumption of marihuana on private property to the extent
authorized by the person who owns, occupies or operates such property, as
provided in and authorized by the Act, and does not supersede rights and
obligations with respect to the use of marihuana for medical purposes as
provided by any law of the State of Michigan or Ordinance of the City of
Fremont allowing for or regulating marihuana for medical use.”
(Ord. No. O-18-08, 12-3-18)
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
(Commencing with Supplement No. 7)
   This table lists the location within the Code of ordinances including
through supplement service, beginning with Supplement No. 7. Rpld means
repealed.
Ordinance      Section      Section
Date                  this Code
11-17-86      1-10         7.2-11-7.2-20
1-19-87               21-32
8-3-87                  7.2-5
2-15-88            Rpld   5-21-5-24
3-21-88            Rpld   7.2-20
6-6-88                  21-51(a)
3-20-89      1-14         7.2-11-7.2-24
3-20-89      1         7.2-16
11-6-89               12-2(a)(8)
1-15-90            Rpld   18-7,
               Added   18-7
7-2-90                  3-2.1
10- 1-90            Rpld   2-37-2-44
Ordinance   Adoption   Section   Section
Number   Date            this Code
0-91-01   2-18-91         16-20
0-91-02   8-19-91         12-15.1
0-91-04   9-16-92         7.2-15(note)
0-91-06   10-21-91         13-1.1
0-91-07   10-21-91         12-4.1
0-91-08   10-21-91      Rpld   13-10
               Added   13-10
0-91-09   12-16-91         21-37(f)
0-92-01   3- 2-92      2      12-2(1.1)-(1.7)
            3      12-2(14)
            4      12-2(13)
            5      12-2(10)
            6      12-2(11), 13-1.2
            7-11      12-2(9)
            12      12-2(12)
            13      12-2(9)
0-93-01   9- 7-93      1-19      7.1-51-7.1-69
            19      7.1-10(b), 7.1-17(a)
               Rpld   7.1-17(c)-(d)
0-93-02   11- 1-93         22-7.1
0-93-04   12-20-93         12-23
0-94-01   2-21-94         2-50-2-82
0-94-02   6-20-94         21-51(a)
O-94-03   9-19-94         Ch. 9.5,Art. II(note)
O-94-04   12-19-94   1-7      9.5-31-9.5.37
O-94-05   11- 7-94         22-4.31
O-95-01   2- 6-95            11-17-11-79
O-95-03   5-15-95   1-26      9.5-51-9.5-76
O-95-04   6- 5-95            21-51(a)
O-95-05   6-28-95         7.2-15(note)
O-95-06   9 - 5-95         19-28(d)(8), 19-36(h), 19-54(d)
O-98-02   2-2-98            2-48
O-99-03   9-20-99         21-9
O-99-04   10-4-99         9-11
O-02-01   3-18-02         Ch. 5
O-02-02   3-18-02         Ch. 7
O-02-03   4-7-02         Ch. 16
O-02-04   4-15-02         14-64 - 14-67
O-02-07   11-4-02         22-20.5
O-03-02   2-17-03         22-3.1 - 22-3.3
O-04-01   3-15-04         9-27 - 9-33
O-04-02   4-19-04         12-23
O-04-03    - -04         Ch. 16.1
-        - -      12-2.1
O-04-03   12-20-04         4-1-4-11
O-05-01   2-7-05         13-22
O-05-02   4-18-05         22-3.2
O-05-03   11-21-05         2-27.1-2-27.3
O-06-02   8-2-06         2-29
O-06-04   10-16-06         2-29
O-07-01   1-22-07         12-34 – 12-43
O-07-02   2-5-07   1-3      22-2.1, 22-15.3, 22-15.4, 22-20.1, 22-20.6
O-07-03   8-20-07         14-2, 14-45 – 14-47
O-07-04   9-17-07         4-12 – 4-23
O-07-06   11-19-07         4-24 – 4-35
O-08-03   3-17-08   1-21, 23   9-34 – 9-55
O-08-05   6-2-08         14-50
O-08-07   12-15-08         16-11
O-09-01   6-1-09         7.2-15 (note)
O-10-02   4-5-10         7.2-15 (note)
O-10-03   5-3-10      Rpld   18-6, 18-7
         Added   18-6, 18-7
O-10-06   11-1-10         11-74
O-11-01   3-7-11         11-85 – 11-87
O-11-04   6-20-11      Rpld   2-26 – 2-27.3
         Added   2-26
O-11-05   7-5-11         21-51
O-11-06   7-18-11         4-36 – 4-47
O-11-07   8-15-11         23-1 – 23-7
O-12-04   7-16-12         4-48 – 4-52; 4-54 – 4-59
O-14-02   5-19-14         4-52, 4-55
O-15-01   1-26-15         24-1 – 24-5
O-15-05   12-7-15         9.5-01 – 9.5-12
O-16-02   12-5-16         11-36 – 11-39
         Rpld   11-28 – 11-35
         Rpld   11-43 – 11-56
O-17-04   6-19-17         21-51
O-18-01   2-5-18         Ch. 15
O-18-04   4-16-18         13-23 – 13-26
O-18-07   11-5-18      Rpld   Ch. 20
O-18-08   12-3-18         Ch. 25
O-19-04   2-4-19         21-54
O-20-02   5-18-20         21-51
O-20-05   9-21-20         18-3 – 18-5, 18-7
         Added   18-10
         Rnbd   18-10 – 18-13
          as   18-11 – 18-14
O-22-01   1-17-22      Added   2-22 – 2-25
O-22-03   6-6-22      Added   9.5-101 – 9.5-126
O-23-04   6-19-23         3-1, 3-2, 3-18, 3-21
O-23-07   11-6-23         21-51
O-23-08   12-4-23         12-15
