GRASS LAKE, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement containS
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 12-19-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Village Council
President              David Keener
President Pro Tempore  Joel Grimm
Trustee                Jane Fitzgerald
Trustee                Gina Lammers
Trustee                Jennifer Stanton
Trustee                Monica Stevenson
Trustee                Matthew Swank
                       
Village Officials
Village Manager        Sabrina Edgar
Village Clerk          Jennifer Keener
Village Treasurer      Trudi Whitley
Deputy Clerk/Treasurer Sandra Tietsema
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
   
10.12   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “Grass Lake Village
Code.”
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see MCL 117.5b
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CODE. The Grass Lake Village Code, as designated in §
10.01 of this code.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be
excluded, and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Jackson, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code
or any other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions,
including, without limitation, fines, damages, expenses and costs may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being MCL 600.8701 et
seq., as amended. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense
of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of
Grass Lake, Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the Village of Grass Lake and all
amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Grass Lake, Michigan.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Grass
Lake.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, section
or division.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village or any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like any street or public way in the
village;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
      (10)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any
village officers or employees;
      (12)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions or no-parking zones,
specific speed zones or parking meter zones and specific stop or yield
intersections, or other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
      (13)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
      (14)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
   (B)   All the ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force
and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. The
ordinances are on file in the Village Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired; or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred; prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption but may be enjoyed,
asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same extent as
if the adoption had not been effected.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _______ of the Grass Lake Village
Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:....” The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Grass Lake Village Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _______, which the section
reads as follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as
desired.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council.
      (1)   A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code.
      (2)   The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date of
the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement and make changes in
the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance,” or words of the same meaning, to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ through _____” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being MCL 764.9c, as amended, when the public servant
has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed an offense in
violation of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Health Officer;
   (B)   Building Inspector;
   (C)   Fire Marshal;
   (D)   Fire Chief; and
   (E)   Police officer.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Officer; ordinance violation notices, see §
31.05
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable, and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      BUREAU. The Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau established in division
(B) below.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice, prepared
by an authorized official, directing a person to appear at the Village
Ordinance Violations Bureau for the purpose of paying a civil fine and/or costs
for a violation which is prescribed to be a municipal civil infraction.
   (B)   Establishment of Bureau.
      (1)   A Village Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau is hereby
established under the authority of MCL 600.8396 for the purpose of accepting
admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infractions in response to
municipal civil infraction violation notices and to collect and retain civil
fines and costs pursuant to a schedule as prescribed by ordinance.
      (2)   Payments made to the Bureau shall be retained and accounted for as
fines and costs, respectively, and shall be deposited in the General Fund.
      (3)   The Bureau shall be located in the village offices and shall be
under the supervision and control of the Village Treasurer.
      (4)   The Village Treasurer may authorize other village officials to
carry out the Treasurer’s duties under this section in the absence of the
Village Treasurer.
   (C)   Authorization for and service of municipal civil infraction violation
notices.
      (1)   A village official authorized by the Village Council, or any law
enforcement officer authorized to enforce the laws of the village, may issue a
municipal civil infraction violation notice rather than initially issuing a
municipal civil infraction citation. A municipal civil infraction violation
notice shall include at least the following information:
         (a)   A statement of the violation charged, including the section of
the ordinance or chapter under which the charge is made;
         (b)   The date on or before which the person charged must pay the
specified civil fine and costs at the Bureau;
         (c)   The amount of the civil fine and costs;
         (d)   The methods that may be used to appear at the Bureau to pay the
civil fine and costs;
         (e)   The address, telephone number and the days and hours the Bureau
is open; and
         (f)   A statement that if the civil fine and costs are not paid before
the date specified, a municipal civil infraction citation may be issued to
commence a violation proceeding in the District Court, and that each day a
violation continues is a separate offense.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) below, an authorized official
shall personally serve a copy of the municipal civil infraction violation
notice upon an alleged violator.
      (3)   In a municipal civil infraction action involving the use or
occupancy of land or a building or other structure, a copy of the municipal
civil infraction violation notice need not be personally served upon the
alleged violator but may be served upon an owner or occupant of the land,
building or structure by posting the copy on the land or attaching the copy to
the building or structure. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by
first class mail to the owner of the land, building or structure at the owner’s
last known address.
   (D)   Limited authority of Bureau.
      (1)   The Bureau is authorized to accept payment of fines and costs in
response to municipal civil infraction violation notices and shall not be
authorized to accept monies or admission of responsibility in response to
municipal civil infraction citations.
      (2)   The Bureau shall not accept payment of a fine or costs from any
person who denies having committed a municipal civil infraction charged in a
municipal civil infraction violation notice.
      (3)   The Bureau shall not have authority or jurisdiction to determine,
or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to
an alleged violation.
   (E)   Choices of person charged with violation.
      (1)   Any person receiving a municipal civil infraction violation notice
shall be permitted to admit responsibility and make a disposition of the charge
alleged in the notice by making payment of the fine and/or costs to the Bureau.
However, a person shall have the right to elect not to have the violation
processed by the Bureau and to have the alleged violation processed in a court
of competent jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of a
violation at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person or in any way diminish
the person’s rights, privileges and protection accorded by law.
      (2)   A person electing to have the alleged violation processed at the
Bureau shall appear at the Bureau and pay the specified fine and/or costs
within the time specified for appearance in the municipal civil infraction
violation notice. Such appearance may be made by mail, in person or by
representation; provided, if appearance is made by mail, the person charged in
the notice shall have the responsibility for timely delivery of the fine and/or
costs within the time specified in the municipal civil infraction violation
notice.
   (F)   Procedure for persons electing not to respond to municipal civil
infraction violations notice. In the event a person does not admit
responsibility and pay the specified civil fine and applicable costs prescribed
for the respective violation within the time specified in the notice, a
municipal civil infraction citation may be filed with the District Court, in
which case, a copy of the citation shall be served by first- class mail upon
the person charged with the municipal civil infraction at such person’s last
known address. The citation filed with the Court shall consist of a sworn
complaint containing the allegations stated in the municipal ordinance
violations notice and shall fairly inform the person charged how to respond to
the citation.
   (G)   Accounting of violation dispositions. The Village Treasurer shall keep
and maintain records of the disposition of all violation notices at the Bureau
and provide the Village Council with a monthly accounting of the number of
admissions and moneys collected. The Treasurer shall also keep and maintain an
annual file with copies of all municipal civil infraction violation notices
based on a fiscal year basis. The Treasurer shall also establish and maintain a
village account of all moneys collected in connection with each violation
notice, showing the name of the person admitting responsibility, the nature of
the violation and the amount of the civil fine and costs collected. Moneys in
the account shall be transferred when and as directed by the Village Council.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2020)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The general penalty for any violation of the village code,
unless in express conflict of a specific section of the village code, is
responsibility for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not
to exceed $500. In addition to a civil fine, a person or entity responsible for
a municipal civil infraction may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and
direct costs incurred by the village in connection with the violation including
attorneys fees and/or may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of
competent jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, the village may also enforce violations
of the village code by civil actions for injunctive or other relief provided by
law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction notices. Every day a violation
of the village code continues to exist shall constitute a separate violation.
Violations of the village code include any act prohibited under the code, made
or declared unlawful by the code, and any omissions or failure to act in
compliance with the code.
   (B)   (1)   Commencement of municipal civil infraction action. This division
(B)(1) specifies the manner of commencing municipal civil infraction actions
with regard to those ordinances and chapters in the this code unless violation
of the ordinance or chapter expressly specifies that violation is punishable by
fine or imprisonment, or by both fine and imprisonment.
         (a)   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the
issuance of either of the following by a village official authorized by the
Village Council or by any law enforcement officer authorized to enforce the
laws of the village:
            1.   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the person
alleged to be responsible to appear in court; or
            2.   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the
person alleged to be responsible to appear at the Village Ordinance Violations
Bureau within a specified time period.
         (b)   The form of citations used to charge municipal civil infraction
violations shall be in accordance with MCL 600.8709.
         (c)   The basis for issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation
shall be as set forth in this division (B)(1)(c).
            1.   An authorized official who witnesses a person violate an
ordinance or chapter of this code the violation of which is a municipal civil
infraction shall prepare and subscribe, within a reasonable time and as
completely as possible, an original and three copies of a citation unless such
official issues a municipal civil infraction violation notice.
            2.   An authorized official may issue a citation to a person if,
based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to believe that a
person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
            3.   An authorized official may issue a citation to a person if,
based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly witnessed the
person violate an ordinance or chapter of the code the violation of which is a
municipal civil infraction, the official has reasonable cause to believe that
the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and if the attorney
for the village approves in writing the issuance of the citation.
         (d)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served in the
following manner.
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(1)(d), the
authorized official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the
alleged violator.
            2.   In a municipal civil infraction action involving the use or
occupancy of land or a building or other structure, a copy of the citation need
not be personally served upon the alleged violator but may be served upon an
owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the copy on the
land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a copy of
the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the land,
building or structure at the owner’s last known address.
            3.   A citation served as provided in division (B)(1)(d)2. above
for a violation involving the use occupancy of land or a building or other
structure shall be processed in the same manner as a citation served personally
upon a defendant.
      (2)   Penalties for municipal civil infraction violations.
         (a)   Unless an ordinance or chapter of this code prescribes that
violation is punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both fine and imprisonment,
a person determined to be responsible for violating any provision of this code
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the
penalties as provided in this division (B)(2). The following civil fines shall
apply in the event a person is determined to be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction, including a person who is found to be responsible by the
court after a trial or by admission, as well as a 0person who admits
responsibility at the Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau.
 
                    A civil fine for a first offense violation shall be in an
First offense       amount of not less than $125, plus costs and other
                    sanctions, for each offense
                    A civil fine for a second offense violation of the same
Second offense      provision of this code within a 3-year period shall be in
                    an amount of not less than $250, plus costs and other
                    sanctions, for each offense
                    A civil fine for a person who violates the same provision
Subsequent offenses of this code 3 or more times within a 3-year period shall
                    be not less than $300 and up to $500, as determined by the
                    court, plus costs and other sanctions, for each offense
 
         (b)   In addition to ordering the respondent determined to be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction to pay a civil fine, costs,
damages and expenses, the judge or magistrate shall be authorized to issue any
judgment, writ or order necessary to enforce or enjoin violation of the
ordinance.
         (c)   Each act of violation, and on each day upon which any such
violation shall occur or continue after notice of violation, shall constitute a
separate offense.
         (d)   In addition to any remedies provided for by village ordinance or
code, any equitable or other remedies available may be sought.
         (e)   The judge or magistrate shall also be authorized to impose
costs, damages and expenses as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2020)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
31.   ADMINISTRATION
      
32.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
33.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
      
34.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
35.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
36.   LIFE SAFETY CODE
      
37.   BURNING OF WASTE MATERIAL
      
38.   FIRE AND EXPLOSION HAZARDS
      
39.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
30.01   General provisions
   
30.02   Planning Commission
   
30.03   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
30.04   Construction Board of Appeals
§ 30.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All boards and commissions existing at the time of the adoption of this code
shall be continued, and the members serving thereon shall remain in office for
the duration of the term for which they were appointed. Except as otherwise
provided, as to any particular board or commission, all boards and commissions
shall be subject to the following general provisions.
   (A)   Any vacancy occurring in the membership of any board or commission
shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in the manner provided
for the original appointment.
   (B)   The appointing authority may remove any member of any board or
commission for cause, but any member shall be entitled to a public hearing on
the removal upon written demand filed with the appointing authority within ten
days after notice of removal has been given to the member.
   (C)   All members of boards and commissions shall serve with/without
compensation as established by resolution of Council.
   (D)   Neither the Council nor the Village President shall attempt to
influence the employment of any person by the Village Manager or in any way
interfere in the management of departments under the jurisdiction of the
Manager. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the President and the Council and
its members shall deal with departments under the jurisdiction of the Village
Manager through the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. passed 12-7-1993)
§ 30.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. There shall be a Village Planning Commission pursuant to the
Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 3 of 2008, being MCL 125.3801 et
seq., as amended, hereinafter referred to as “the Commission,” with the powers
and duties as set forth below. This section shall be officially known and
described as “The Village of Grass Lake Planning Commission Ordinance.”
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of five, seven or nine members
appointed by the chief elected official, subject to approval by a majority vote
of the Village Council. To be qualified to be a member and remain a member of
the Commission, the individual shall meet the following qualifications:
         (a)   Shall be a qualified elector of the village, except one non-
qualified elector may be a member of the Commission;
         (b)   Shall not be a declared candidate for any political office,
except this condition shall not apply to the Village Council representative to
the Commission;
         (c)   After an individual’s first appointment and before
reappointment, shall have attended training for Commission members pursuant to
division (D) below; and
         (d)   Shall meet the conditions provided for each individual member in
division (B)(3) below, except the geographical location of the individual’s
residency may be considered optional.
      (2)   Members shall be appointed for three-year terms. However, when
first appointed, a number of members shall be appointed to one-year, two-year
or three-year terms such that, as nearly as possible, the terms of one-third of
all Commission members will expire each new year. If a vacancy occurs, the
vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as provided
for an original appointment such that, as nearly as possible, the terms of one-
third of all Commission members continue to expire each year.
      (3)   The membership shall be representative, to the extent practicable,
of the important segments of the community, such as the economic, governmental,
educational and social development of the village, and as a secondary
consideration, be representative of the entire geography of the village.
         (a)   Ex officio members shall include the chief elected official or
one member(s) of the Village Council.
         (b)   The terms of office of ex officio members shall coincide with
their elected terms of office on the legislative body or the term of office of
the chief elected official who appointed him or her.
         (c)   Ex officio members shall not be a Chair of the Commission.
         (d)   Ex officio members shall not comprise more than one-third of the
total membership of the Commission.
   (C)   Liaisons. The Commission, in its bylaws, may name liaisons to the
Commission. The purpose of liaisons is to provide the village and quasi-village
officials to have the ability to participate in discussion with the Commission,
in addition to speaking in public participation, and nothing else.
   (D)   Training. Appointed members of the Commission shall attend educational
programs designed for training members of state planning commissions if the
adopted village budget for that fiscal year includes funds to pay for tuition,
registration and travel expenses for the training. Nothing in this division (D)
shall prohibit a member who has not had training from finishing his or her term
of office unless the member resigns or is removed by action of the Village
Council.
   (E)   Removal from office.
      (1)   The Village Council may remove a member of the Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office upon written charges. Failure
to disclose a potential conflict of interest shall be considered malfeasance in
office. Failure to attend three consecutive Commission meetings shall be
considered nonfeasance in office.
      (2)   The Secretary of the Planning Commission shall report any member
who has missed three consecutive regular meetings to the Village Council.
   (F)   Membership; vacancies. The Village Council shall fill any vacancy in
the membership of the Commission for the unexpired term in the same manner as
the initial appointment.
   (G)   Membership; compensation. All members of the Planning Commission shall
serve with compensation equal to, or less then, the per diem of the Village
Council per meeting, plus mileage.
   (H)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Commission shall meet at least four times each year. A majority
of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the ordinary
business of the Commission, and all questions which shall arise at its meetings
shall be determined by a vote of the majority of the members of the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The affirmative vote of two-thirds of the total number of seats for
members of the Commission, regardless if vacancies or absences exist or not,
shall be necessary for the adoption, or recommendation for adoption, of any
plan or amendment to plan.
   (I)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Commission shall have its powers and duties as set forth in the
Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being MCL 125.3801 et
seq., as amended, and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006,
being MCL 125.3101 et seq., as amended.
      (2)   The Commission shall have authority to apply for and receive grants
from any government agency, or the federal government, and to receive gifts.
   (J)   Meetings; records. The Commission shall adopt bylaws for the
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which records shall be a public
record.
   (K)   Approval, ratification and reconfirmation. All official actions taken
by all village planning commissions preceding the Commission created by this
section are hereby approved, ratified and reconfirmed. Any project, review or
process taking place at the effective date of the provisions codified herein
shall continue with the Commission created by this section, subject to the
requirements of this section, and shall be deemed a continuation of any
previous village planning commission. The provisions codified herein shall be
in full force and effect from and after their adoption and publication.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. passed 6-21-2011)
§ 30.03 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals for the village, heretofore created in
accordance with former Public Act 207 of 1921, being MCL 125.581 et seq., as
amended and now subject to the requirements of the Michigan Zoning Enabling
Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being MCL 125.3101 et seq., is hereby continued.
The organization of the Board and its powers and duties shall be as specified
in §§
154.310 to
154.313 and
154.325 to
154.331 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Ord. passed 12-7-1993)
§ 30.04 CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A Construction Board of Appeals for the village is hereby created and shall
consist of three members. Each member of the Board of Appeals shall be
appointed for a two-year term.
(Prior Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 5, passed 4-6-1998)
CHAPTER 31: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
31.01   Village Clerk and Village Treasurer; appointment
   
31.02   Biennial election of Trustees
   
31.03   Village Manager
   
31.04   Deputy Village Manager
   
31.05   Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.06   Village Council compensation
§ 31.01 VILLAGE CLERK AND VILLAGE TREASURER; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   As authorized by the General Law Village Act, Public Act 3 of 1895,
being MCL 61.1 et seq., as amended, the Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer
shall be chosen by nomination by the Village President and appointment by the
Village Council.
   (B)   The term of office of the Village Clerk and the Village Treasurer
shall be two years, from March 1 of each even-numbered year, and until a
successor is appointed. The persons first appointed as Village Clerk and
Village Treasurer under this section shall have an initial term of office
commencing as of the date that person takes and subscribes the oath of office
and files the same with the village, together with the filing of any bond
required by law.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 33, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 31.02 BIENNIAL ELECTION OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 3 of 1895, being MCL 61.1 et
seq., as amended, and in particular, pursuant to the provisions of division (D)
below, the village hereby elects to adopt this section providing for biennial
election of Village Trustees.
   (B)   Effective with the regular village election scheduled to be held in
calendar year 2002, the Village President and three Village Trustees shall be
elected at each biennial village election for the term of four years, from
December 1 of the even-numbered year when elected and until their successors
are qualified. Beginning with the election regularly scheduled to be held in
calendar year 2004, the three remaining Village Trustees shall be elected at
each biennial village election for the term of four years, from December 1 of
the even-numbered year when elected and until their successors are qualified.
   (C)   To the extent necessary to provide for the biennial election of
Trustees, the terms of incumbent Trustees are hereby extended for a period of
not more than one year.
   (D)   All ordinances and resolutions, or parts thereof, which are in
conflict with the provisions of this section are, to the extent of any such
conflict, hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 34, passed 5-1-2001)
§ 31.03 VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   Establishment of office. In accordance with the authority for the
appointment of a village manager granted to the General Law Village Act, Public
Act 3 of 1895, being MCL 61.1 et seq., as amended, the office of Village
Manager is established.
   (B)   Appointment of Village Manager. The President shall, with the
concurrence of a majority of the Council, appoint a Village Manager. The
Council may enter into an employment contract with a Village Manager for a
period extending beyond the terms of the members of Council but not exceeding
six years. An employment contract with the Manager shall be in writing and
shall specify the compensation to be paid to the Manager, any procedure for
changing compensation, any fringe benefits and any other conditions of
employment. The contract shall state that the Manager serves at the pleasure of
the Council and that the Manager may be removed by a majority of the Council.
The contract may provide for severance pay or other benefits in the event the
employment of the Manager is terminated by the Council. The Manager shall be
selected solely on the basis of administrative and executive abilities, with
special reference to training and experience. The first Manager to be appointed
pursuant to this section shall be appointed within 180 days of the date upon
which the provisions codified herein shall have become effective.
   (C)   Acting Village Manager. The President, with the concurrence of a
majority of the Trustees, shall appoint or designate an Acting Manager during a
vacancy in the office of Village Manager and shall make a permanent appointment
within 180 days from the effective date of the vacancy.
   (D)   Compensation. The Village Manager shall receive such compensation as
the Council shall determine by resolution or ordinance.
   (E)   Duties. The Village Manager shall be the chief administrative officer
of the village, and shall be responsible to the Village Council for the
efficient administration of all affairs of the village, and shall exercise
management supervision over all departments and over all public property
belonging to the village. The Manager shall have the following functions and
duties:
      (1)   Attend and participate in all meetings of the Village Council and
committees, but he or she shall not have a vote on such Council or committees;
      (2)   Be responsible for the duties of the Streets Administrator for the
village; and
      (3)   Be responsible for personnel management and shall issue, subject to
Council approval, personnel rules applicable to all village employees. The
Manager shall have the following responsibilities:
         (a)   To appoint, suspend or remove all appointed administrative
officers and department heads, subject to Council approval. The Manager shall
recommend to the Council the salary or wage for each such official;
         (b)   To appoint, suspend or remove all other employees of the
village. The Manager shall determine the salary for each such employee;
         (c)   Exercise supervisory control over all departments, including the
Department of Public Works;
         (d)   Exercise supervisory responsibility over the accounting,
budgeting, personnel, purchasing and related management functions of the
Village Clerk and Village Treasurer, subject, however, to the statutory
authority granted to such officials;
         (e)   Shall be authorized to attend all meetings of village boards and
commissions, including the Village Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals
and the Board of the Downtown Development Authority, with the right to express
his or her views and concerns and the views and concerns of the Village
Council, but he or she shall not have a vote;
         (f)   Prepare and administer the budget as provided for in the Uniform
Budgeting and Accounting Act, being Public Act 2 of 1968, being MCL 141.421 et
seq., as amended, and any village ordinance that may be adopted;
         (g)   Be the purchasing agent of the village;
         (h)   Prepare and maintain written policies and procedures defining
the duties and functions of the several officers and departments of the
village, subject to the approval of the Council;
         (i)   Investigate all complaints concerning the administration of the
village and shall have authority at all times to inspect the books, records and
papers of any agent, employee or officer of the village;
         (j)   Make recommendations to the Council for the adoption of such
measures as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the improvement or
betterment of the village; and
         (k)   Perform other duties required from time to time by the Village
Council.
   (F)   Purchasing responsibilities.
      (1)   The Village Manager shall act as purchasing agent for all village
offices and departments. The Manager may delegate some or all of the duties as
purchasing agent to another officer or employee, provided that such delegation
shall not relieve the Manager of the responsibility for the proper conduct of
those duties. The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any
product or service the cost of which does not exceed $2,000 or alternative
amount set by Village Council and is recorded and reported to Council, provided
that funds have been appropriated. The cost of the product or service shall not
exceed the unencumbered balance of the appropriation for that account. Any
product or service the cost of which exceeds the above dollar amount shall be
purchased only if prior approval of the Village Council has been obtained.
      (2)   The Village Manager may promulgate rules governing the purchase of
products or services. The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase
any product or service regardless of its cost when such purchase is
necessitated by an emergency condition. EMERGENCY CONDITION is defined to mean
any event which presents an imminent threat to the public health or safety or
any event which would result in the disruption of a village service which is
essential to the public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 37, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 31.04 DEPUTY VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   Establishment of office. In accordance with the authority for the
appointment if a deputy village manager granted to the village in the General
Law Village Act, Public Act 3 of 1895, being MCL 61.1 et seq., as amended, the
office of Deputy Village Manager is established.
   (B)   Appointment. The President shall, with the concurrence of a majority
of the Council, appoint a Deputy Village Manager. The Council may enter into an
employment contract with the Deputy Village Manager for a period extending
beyond the terms of the members of Council but not exceeding six years. An
employment contract with the Deputy Manager shall be in writing and shall
specify the compensation to be paid to the Deputy Manager, any procedure for
changing compensation, any fringe benefits and any other conditions of
employment. The contract shall state that the Deputy Manager serves at the
pleasure of the Council and that the Deputy Manager may be removed by a
majority of the Council. The Deputy Manager shall be selected solely on the
basis of administrative and executive abilities, with special reference to
training and experience. The first Deputy Manager to be appointed pursuant to
this section shall be appointed within 180 days of the date upon which the
provisions codified herein shall have become effective.
   (C)   Compensation. The Deputy Village Manager shall receive such
compensation as the Council shall determine by resolution or ordinance.
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   Assisting and advising the Village Manager in the performance of
all duties and responsibilities of the office of Village Manager. In the
absence of the Village Manager, the Deputy Village Manager shall perform the
duties and responsibilities of the office of the Village Manager;
      (2)   Keeping the Village Manager informed of all matters and conditions
which have any bearing upon the municipal services or upon the village
government;
      (3)   Directing and coordinating the preparation of and all
communications being given to the general public and any of the municipal
departments;
      (4)   Directing and coordinating the services provided by all
departments, units and offices in the village;
      (5)   Coordinating and supervising the preparation and distribution of
the Village Board agenda and packet; and
      (6)   Directing and supervising the preparation and administration of the
budget, purchasing practices, personnel rules and regulations, contracts,
agreements, franchises and ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 31.05 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Village Manager is hereby authorized to hire or
appoint any person/contractor to the office of Municipal Code Enforcement
Officer for such term as may be designated in the employment agreement/contract
and for such compensation as appropriated by the Council. The Manager may
further remove any person/contractor from such office in accordance with §
31.03(E)(3)(a) of this code.
   (B)   Authority. The Municipal Code Enforcement Officer is hereby authorized
to enforce this code and all ordinances of the village, whether heretofore or
hereafter enacted, and whether such ordinances specifically designate a
different enforcing official or do not designate any particular enforcing
officer. Where a particular officer is so designated in any ordinance, that
officer’s authority shall continue in full force and effect and shall not be
diminished or impaired by the terms of this section, and the authority of the
Municipal Code Enforcement Officer shall be in addition and supplementary to
the authority granted to such other specific officer. The Municipal Code
Enforcement Officer shall, in the performance of the Officer’s duties, be
subordinate and responsible to the Village Manager.
   (C)   Availability of other enforcement options. Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to require the village to initiate its municipal civil
infraction ordinance enforcement activity through the issuance of an ordinance
violation notice. As to each ordinance violation designated as a municipal
civil infraction, the village may, at its sole discretion, proceed directly
with the issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation or take such other
enforcement action as is authorized by law.
§ 31.06 VILLAGE COUNCIL COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Compensation of President. The President of the Village Council shall
be paid as established by resolution for each regular meeting attended of the
Village Council. Payment shall be made annually from the village’s General
Fund.
   (B)   Compensation of President Pro-Temp. The President Pro-Temp of the
Village Council shall be paid as established by resolution for each regular
meeting attended of the Village Council. Payment shall be made annually from
the village’s General Fund.
   (C)   Compensation of Trustees. The Trustees of the Village Council shall be
paid as established by resolution for each regular meeting attended of the
Village Council. Payment shall be made annually from the village’s General
Fund.
   (D)   Meeting attendance required for compensation. The President and the
Trustees of the Village Council will receive compensation for all regular
meetings as long as they attend 90% of the meetings per year.
   (E)   Additional compensation; adjustments to compensation. The President,
President Pro-Temp and Trustees of the Village Council shall receive no other
compensation for services performed for and on behalf of the village.
Compensation of the President, President Pro-temp and Trustees of the village
may be reduced as required by any applicable state and federal law to account
for standard withholdings and deductions.
   (F)   Date of payment. Compensation for village officers will be paid
annually for each fiscal year on the third Monday in November.
(Ord. 31.04, passed 2-15-2022)
CHAPTER 32: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Authority to assess
   
32.03   Initiation of special assessment projects
   
32.04   Initiation by petition
   
32.05   Survey and report
   
32.06   Tentative determination; assessment roll
   
32.07   Deviation from plans and specifications
   
32.08   Limitations on preliminary expenses
   
32.09   Special assessment roll
   
32.10   Assessor to file assessment roll
   
32.11   Hearing to determine necessity and review; objections in writing
   
32.12   Changes and corrections in assessment roll
   
32.13   Objection to assessment
   
32.14   Special assessment; when due
   
32.15   Partial payments; when due
   
32.16   Delinquent special assessments
   
32.17   Creation of lien
   
32.18   Additional assessments; refunds
   
32.19   Additional procedures; written contract
   
32.20   Collection of special assessments
   
32.21   Special assessment accounts
   
32.22   Contested assessments
   
32.23   Reassessment for benefits
   
32.24   Combination of projects
   
32.25   Division of parcels
   
32.26   Deferred payments of special assessments
   
32.27   Reconsideration of petitions
   
32.28   Title
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST. When referring to the cost of any local public improvement, includes
the cost of services, plans, condemnations, spreading of rolls, notices,
advertising, financing, construction, legal fees, interest on special
assessment bonds for a period not to exceed one year and all other costs
incident to the making of the improvement, the special assessments therefor and
the financing thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement which is of a nature so as
to benefit especially any real property or properties within a district in the
vicinity of the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.02 AUTHORITY TO ASSESS.
   The whole cost, or any part thereof, of any local public improvement may be
defrayed by special assessment upon the lands specially benefitted by the
improvement in the manner hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.03 INITIATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the village,
the tentative necessity thereof and the determination that the whole or any
part of the expense thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the
property especially benefitted, provided that all special assessments levied
shall be in proportion to the benefits derived from the improvements, may be
commenced by a majority resolution of the Council, with or without petition.
(Prior Code, § 32.03) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.04 INITIATION BY PETITION.
   (A)   Local public improvements may be initiated by petition signed by
property owners whose aggregate property in the proposed district was assessed
for not less than 51% of the total assessed value of the privately owned real
property located therein, all shown by the last-preceding general tax records
of the village.
   (B)   (1)   The petition shall contain a brief description of the property
owned by the respective signatories thereof, shall be verified as to the
signatures and, if it shall appear that the petition is signed by at least 51%
as aforesaid, the Clerk shall certify same to the Council.
      (2)   The petition shall be addressed to the Council and filed with the
Clerk and shall in no event be considered directory, but is advisory only.
(Prior Code, § 32.04) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.05 SURVEY AND REPORT.
   Before the Council shall consider the making of any local improvement, the
Council shall cause to be prepared a report, which shall include necessary
plans, profiles, specifications and detailed estimates of cost, an estimate of
the life of the improvement, a description of the assessment district or
districts and other pertinent information as will permit the Council to decide
the cost, extent and necessity of the improvement proposed, and what part or
proportion thereof should be paid by special assessments upon the property
especially benefitted, and what part, if any, should be paid by the village at
large. The Council shall not finally determine to proceed with the making of
any local public improvement until the report has been filed with the village,
available for review by the public, and until after a public hearing has been
held by the Council for the purpose of hearing objections to the making of the
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 32.05) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.06 TENTATIVE DETERMINATION; ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Upon receipt of the report required in §
32.05 of this code, if the Council shall decide to proceed with the
improvement, it shall, by resolution, order the report filed with the Clerk. In
addition, by that resolution, the Council shall tentatively determine the
necessity thereof, set forth the nature thereof, designate the limits of the
special assessment district to be affected and describe the lands to be
assessed, the part or portion of the cost of the public improvement to be paid
by the lands specially benefitted thereby and the part or portion, if any, to
be paid by the village at large for benefit to the village at large, and shall
direct the Assessor to make a special assessment roll of the part or proportion
of the cost to be borne by the lands specially benefitted according to the
benefits received and to report the same to the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.06) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.07 DEVIATION FROM PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   No deviation from original plans or specifications as adopted shall be
permitted by any officer or employee of the village without the authority of
the Council by majority resolution. A copy of the resolution authorizing those
changes or deviations shall be certified by the Clerk and attached to the
original plans and specifications on file in his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 32.07) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.08 LIMITATIONS ON PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
   The Council shall specify the provisions and procedures for financing a
local public improvement. No contract or expenditure, except for the cost of
preparing necessary profiles, plans, specifications and estimates of cost,
shall be made for the improvement, nor shall any improvement be commenced,
until the special assessment roll to defray the costs of the same shall have
been made and confirmed.
(Prior Code, § 32.08) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.09 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The Assessor shall make a special assessment roll of all lots and
parcels of land within the designated district benefitted by the proposed
improvement and assess to each lot or parcel of land the proportionate amount
benefitted thereby.
   (B)   The amount spread in each case shall be based upon the detailed
estimate of cost as approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.09) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.10 ASSESSOR TO FILE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   When the Assessor shall have completed the assessment roll, he or she shall
file the same with the Village Clerk for presentation to the Council for review
and certification by it.
(Prior Code, § 32.10) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.11 HEARING TO DETERMINE NECESSITY AND REVIEW; OBJECTIONS IN WRITING.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the special assessment roll, the Council, by majority
resolution, shall accept the assessment roll and order it to be filed in the
office of the Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and place the
Council will meet to hear objections to the improvement and review the special
assessment roll and direct the Clerk to give notice of a public hearing for the
purpose of affording an opportunity for interested persons to be heard.
   (B)   The notice shall be given by publication once, at least ten full days
prior to the date of the hearing, in a newspaper published or circulated within
the village and by first-class mail addressed to each owner of or person in
interest in property to be assessed, as shown by the last general tax
assessment roll of the village, mailed at least ten days prior to the date of
the hearing.
   (C)   The hearing required by this section may be held at any regular,
adjourned or special meeting of the Council. At the hearing, all interested
persons or parties shall present, in writing, their objections, if any, to the
improvement and the assessments against them and be given a reasonable
opportunity to voice their objections if they so desire. The Assessor shall be
present at every meeting of the Council at which a special assessment is to be
reviewed.
(Prior Code, § 32.11) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.12 CHANGES AND CORRECTIONS IN ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The Council shall meet at the time and place designated for the
hearing on the improvements and review of the special assessment roll, and at
the meeting, or a proper adjournment thereof, shall consider all objections
thereto submitted in writing and verbally voiced.
      (1)   The Council may correct the roll as to any special assessment or
description of any lot or parcel of land or other errors appearing therein, or
it may, by majority resolution, annul the assessment roll and direct that new
proceedings be instituted. The same proceedings shall be followed in making a
new roll as in the making of the original roll.
      (2)   If after hearing all objections and making a record of those
changes as the Council deems justified, the Council may, by majority
resolution, determine to proceed with the public improvement, determine the
necessity thereof and set forth the nature thereof, designate the limits of the
special assessment district to be affected and describe the lands to be
assessed, finally determine the part or proportion of the cost of the public
improvement to be paid by the lands specially benefitted thereby and the part
or portion, if any, to be paid by the village at large for benefit to the
village at large.
   (B)   If the Council determines that it is satisfied with the special
assessment roll and that assessments are in proportion to benefits received, it
shall thereupon pass a resolution reciting the determinations, confirming the
roll, placing it on file in the office of the Clerk and directing the Clerk to
attach his or her warrant to a certified copy thereof within ten days, therein
commanding the Assessor to spread and the Treasurer to collect the various sums
and amounts appearing thereon as directed by the Council. The roll shall have
the date of confirmation endorsed thereon and shall from that date be final and
conclusive for the purpose of the improvement to which it applies, unless
contested in the manner provided in Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. 8, § 34, being
MCL 61.1 et seq., as amended, and subject to adjustment to conform to the
actual cost of the improvement, as provided in §
32.18 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 32.12) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.13 OBJECTION TO ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   If at, or prior to, the final confirmation of any special assessments
the owners of privately owned real property to be assessed for more than 50% of
the cost of an improvement, or in the case of paving or similar improvements,
the owners of more than 50% of the frontage to be assessed for any such
improvement, shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the
improvement shall not be made by proceedings delineated by this chapter without
a five-sevenths vote of the members-elect of the Council.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to sidewalk construction.
(Prior Code, § 32.13) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.14 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; WHEN DUE.
   All special assessments, except the installments thereof as the Council
shall make payable at a future time, as provided in this chapter, shall be due
and payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(Prior Code, § 32.14) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.15 PARTIAL PAYMENTS; WHEN DUE.
   (A)   The Council may provide for the payment of special assessments in
installments. The installments shall be set by majority resolution and shall
not exceed 30 in number, the first installment being due upon confirmation of
the roll or on a date as the Council may determine, and the deferred
installments shall be due annually thereafter, or in the discretion of the
Council, shall be due annually on some other date as the Council may fix or may
be spread upon and made a part of each annual village tax roll thereafter until
all are paid. Interest shall be charged on all deferred installments at a rate
not to exceed 8% per annum, commencing on a date on or after confirmation as
may be fixed by the Council and payable with each installment.
   (B)   The full amount of all or any deferred installments, with interest
accrued thereon to the date of payment, may be paid in advance of the due dates
thereof. If the full assessment or the first installment thereof shall be due
upon confirmation, each property owner shall have 30 days from the date of
confirmation to pay the full amount of the assessment, or the full amount of
any installments thereof, without interest or penalty.
   (C)   Following the 30-day period, the assessment or first installment
thereof shall, if unpaid, be considered as delinquent, and the same penalties
shall be collected on the unpaid assessments or first installments thereof as
are provided by law to be collected on delinquent general village taxes.
Deferred installments shall be collected without penalty until 30 days after
the due date thereof, after which time the installments shall be considered as
delinquent and the penalties on the installments shall be collected as are
provided by law to be collected on delinquent general village taxes. After the
Council has confirmed the roll, the Village Treasurer shall notify by first-
class mail each property owner on the roll that the roll has been filed,
stating the amount assessed and the terms of payment. Failure on the part of
the Village Treasurer to give the notice or of the owner to receive the notice
shall not invalidate any special assessment roll of the village or any
assessment thereon nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties.
(Prior Code, § 32.15) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.16 DELINQUENT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Any assessment or part thereof remaining unpaid on the first Monday of March
following the date when the same became delinquent shall be reported as unpaid
by the Treasurer to the Council. Any such delinquent assessment, together with
all accrued interest, shall be transferred and reassessed on the next annual
village tax roll in a column headed “Special Assessments” with a penalty of 4%
upon the total amount added thereto, and when so transferred and reassessed
upon, the tax roll shall be collected in all respects as provided for the
collection of village taxes.
(Prior Code, § 32.16) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.17 CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges thereon from the
date of confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the village from the
persons to whom they are assessed and, until paid, shall be and remain a lien
upon the property assessed of the same character and effect as the lien created
by general law for state, county and village taxes, and the lands upon which
the same are a lien shall be subject to sale therefor the same as are lands
upon which delinquent village taxes constitute a lien.
(Prior Code, § 32.17) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.18 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   (A)   The Clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each local or
special public improvement, compile the actual cost thereof and certify the
same to the Assessor, who shall adjust the special assessment roll to
correspond therewith.
   (B)   Should the assessment prove larger than necessary by less than 5%, the
same shall be reported to the Council, which may place the excess in the
Village Treasury or make a refund thereof pro rata according to the assessment.
If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by 5% or more, the entire excess
shall be credited to owners of property, as shown by the village assessment
roll upon which the assessment has been levied, pro rata according to the
assessment.
   (C)   No refunds of special assessments may be made which impair or
contravene the provision of any outstanding obligation or bond secured, in
whole or in part, by the special assessments. In the case of assessments due in
installments, the Council may order the refund given by credit against the
installments last coming due.
   (D)   When any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to meet the
cost of the improvement for which it was made, the Council may make an
additional pro rata assessment, but the total amount assessed against any one
parcel of land shall not exceed the benefits received by the lot or parcel of
land.
(Prior Code, § 32.18) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.19 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES; WRITTEN CONTRACT.
   (A)   In any case where the provisions of this chapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the
Council shall provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures required.
   (B)   If all persons or property owners to be affected by any proposed local
public improvement agree that the proposed local public improvement be made and
that a special assessment be levied in connection therewith, the village may,
in lieu of the procedure provided for in this chapter, enter into a written
contract with all of the persons or property owners affected by the proposed
local public improvement, which contract, when properly approved and executed,
shall operate as a complete special assessment procedure, and the special
assessment shall be made in accordance with the contract.
(Prior Code, § 32.19) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993; Ord. 38, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 32.20 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In the event bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special
assessments as hereinbefore provided, all collections on each special
assessment roll, or combination of rolls, shall be set in a separate fund for
the payment of the principal and interest on the bonds so issued in
anticipation of the payment of the special assessments and shall be used for no
other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.21 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Monies raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local
improvements shall be held in a special fund to pay the cost or to repay any
money borrowed therefor. Each special assessment account may be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses
incidental thereto, including the repayment of the principal and interest on
money borrowed therefor and to refund excessive assessments if refunds are
authorized.
(Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.22 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   To contest a special assessment, the special assessment must be protested at
the hearing held for the purpose of confirming the special assessment roll.
Thereafter, an action to contest the collection of a special assessment shall
be instituted under the Tax Tribunal Act, Public Act 186 of 1973, being
MCL 205.701 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 32.22) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993; Ord. 38, passed 10-16-2007)
§ 32.23 REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   (A)   Whenever the Council shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have adjudged the assessment to be illegal for any reason whatsoever, in
whole or in part, the Council shall have power to cause a new assessment to be
made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether the
improvement or any part thereof has been completed and whether any part of the
assessment has been collected or not.
   (B)   All proceedings on the reassessment and for the collection thereof
shall be made in the manner as provided for the original assessment.
   (C)   If any portion of the original assessment shall have been collected
and not refunded, it shall be applied upon the reassessment, and the
reassessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied. If more than the amount
reassessed shall have been collected, the balance shall be refunded to the
person making the payment.
(Prior Code, § 32.23) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.24 COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The Council may combine several districts into one project for the purpose
of effecting a saving in the costs. There shall be established for each
district separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the same.
(Prior Code, § 32.24) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.25 DIVISION OF PARCELS.
   Should any lots or lands be divided after a special assessment thereon has
been confirmed and divided into installments, the Assessor shall apportion the
uncollected amounts upon the several lots and lands so divided and shall enter
the several amounts as amendments upon the special assessment roll. The Village
Treasurer shall, within ten days after the apportionment, send notice of the
action to the persons concerned at their last known address by first-class
mail. The apportionment shall be final and conclusive on all parties unless a
protest, in writing, is received by the Village Treasurer within 20 days of the
mailing of the aforesaid notice.
(Prior Code, § 32.25) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.26 DEFERRED PAYMENTS OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Council may provide for the deferred payment of special assessments from
persons who, in the opinion of the Council and Assessor, by reason of poverty
are unable to contribute toward the cost thereof. In all those cases, as a
condition to the granting of the deferred payments, the village shall require
mortgage security on the real property of the beneficiary, payable on or before
his or her death or, in any event, on the sale or transfer of the property.
(Prior Code, § 32.26) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.27 RECONSIDERATION OF PETITIONS.
   In the event the Council shall fail to make any public improvement
petitioned for under the provisions of §
32.04 of this code during the calendar year during which any petition is filed,
the petition shall be reconsidered by the Council prior to March 1 of the
succeeding calendar year for the purpose of determining whether the improvement
should be made during the calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 32.27) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 32.28 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Special Assessment
Ordinance” of the village.
(Prior Code, § 32.28) (Ord. 20, passed 7-20-1993)
CHAPTER 33: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Determination of necessity
   
33.04   Creation of Authority
   
33.05   Description of Downtown District
   
33.06   Board of Directors
   
33.07   Powers of the Authority
   
33.08   Fiscal and financial responsibilities
   
33.09   Finances
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Grass Lake
Downtown Development Authority Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as given to
them in Public Act 57 of 2018, being MCL 125.4201 et seq., or as hereinafter in
this section provided, unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT 57. Public Act 57 of 2018, being MCL 125.4101 et seq., as amended,
now in effect or as hereafter amended.
      AUTHORITY. The Village of Grass Lake Downtown Development Authority,
created by this chapter.
      BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors of the Authority, the
governing body of the Authority.
      CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The President of the village.
      DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The downtown district designated by this chapter, as
now existing or as hereafter amended.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Grass Lake, Jackson County, Michigan.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The governing body of the Village of Grass Lake,
Michigan.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990)
§ 33.03 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
   The Village Council hereby determines that it is necessary for the best
interests of the village to halt property value deterioration and increase
property tax valuation where possible in the business district of the village
to eliminate the causes of that deterioration and to promote economic growth by
establishing a Downtown Development Authority.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990)
§ 33.04 CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created a Downtown Development Authority for the village.
The Authority shall be a public body corporate and shall be known and exercise
its powers under the title of “Village of Grass Lake Downtown Development
Authority.” The Authority may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in any court of
this state and shall possess all of the powers necessary to carry out the
purpose of its incorporation as provided by this chapter. The enumeration of a
power in this chapter shall not be construed as a limitation upon the general
powers of the Authority.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990)
§ 33.05 DESCRIPTION OF DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Downtown District in which the Authority shall exercise its powers
as provided by Public Act 57 of 2018, being MCL 125.4201 et seq., shall consist
of the territory in the village described as follows: being part of the
village, and being more particularly described as follows: commencing at the
northeast corner of Section 5, Township 3 South, Range 2 East; thence southerly
along the east line of Section 5 approximately 1,129 feet; thence westerly
approximately 1,659 feet; thence northerly approximately 643 feet; thence
easterly 33 feet; thence southerly approximately 189 feet; thence easterly
approximately 519 feet to centerline of county ditch; thence northwesterly
along the centerline approximately 244 feet; thence northwesterly approximately
346 feet; thence northwesterly approximately 149 feet; thence northwesterly
approximately 121 feet; thence northwesterly approximately 50 feet; thence
northwesterly approximately 86 feet; thence northwesterly approximately 96
feet; thence southwesterly approximately 207 feet; thence northwesterly
approximately 100 feet; thence southwesterly approximately 280 feet; thence
southeasterly approximately 94 feet; thence southwesterly approximately 146
feet; thence southerly approximately 110 feet to the south line of Section 32,
Township 2 South, Range 2 East; thence westerly along the section line
approximately 170 feet; thence southerly 33 feet; thence westerly approximately
77 feet; thence southwesterly approximately 236 feet; thence westerly
approximately 142 feet to the north-south 1/4 line of Section 5; thence
northerly along the 1/4 line approximately 82 feet to the north 1/4 corner of
Section 5; thence northerly approximately 776 feet; thence westerly
approximately 308 feet; thence northerly to the south shore of the village;
thence northerly and easterly along the shore of the village to a point on the
shore of the village westerly of a point 92 feet two inches north of the
northeast corner of Lot 4, Block 4, Smith’s addition; thence easterly to the
point; thence easterly to the east line of Mechanic Street/County Park Road;
thence southerly along the east line to a point 100 feet north of the south
line of Lot 6, Block 5, Smith’s addition; thence easterly parallel to the south
line to the east line of Lot 7, Block 5; thence southerly to the southeast
corner of Lot 6, Block 5; thence westerly along the south line of Lot 6, Block
5 to the east line of Mechanic Street/County Park Road; thence southwesterly
and southerly along the east line to south 1/16 line of Section 32; thence
easterly along the south 1/16 line approximately 459 feet; thence northeasterly
approximately 203 feet; thence easterly approximately 66 feet; thence northerly
approximately 35 feet; thence easterly approximately 218 feet to the west line
of Brown Street; thence southeasterly perpendicular to the west line 33 feet to
the east line of Brown Street; thence southerly along the east line to the
north line of Consolidated Rail Corporation Railroad; thence southeasterly
perpendicular to the north line 100 feet to the south line of Consolidated Rail
Corporation Railroad; thence southwesterly along the south line approximately
58 feet; thence southerly approximately 147 feet to the north line of Michigan
Avenue; thence northeasterly along the north line approximately 193 feet;
thence southeasterly perpendicular to the north line approximately 62 feet to
the intersection of the south line of Michigan Avenue with the west line of
Maple Street; thence southerly approximately 115 feet along the west line;
thence southwesterly approximately 84 feet; thence southerly approximately 236
feet; thence westerly approximately 66 feet; thence northerly approximately 28
feet; thence westerly approximately 66 feet; thence southerly approximately 633
feet to the north line of Section 5; thence easterly along the north line
approximately 455 feet to the northeast corner of Section 5 and the point of
ending.
   (B)   The above description is based on assessment records, plats and
related information and, as such, is intended to include only complete tax
parcels of record.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990)
§ 33.06 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Authority shall be under supervision and control of a Board of
Directors. It shall consist of the chief executive officer of the village and
eight to 12 members, as provided by Act 197, or as provided by Public Act 125
of 1981, § 125.1654, subsection 8, being MCL 493.51 et seq., for municipalities
of under 5,000 population, the Planning Commission of the village may assume
that function.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990; Ord. 17, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.07 POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall have all powers provided by law, subject to the
limitations imposed by law and herein.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990)
§ 33.08 FISCAL AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Authority shall prepare budgetary information, expense reports and
financial data as required in Public Act 57 of 2018, being MCL 125.4201 et seq.
   (B)   The Authority shall annually prepare a budget and shall submit it to
the Village Council on the same date that the proposed budget for the village
is submitted to the Village Council. The Authority shall not finally adopt a
budget for any fiscal year until the budget has been approved by the Village
Council. The Authority may, however, temporarily adopt a budget in connection
with its operation and any improvements where required to do so by the
ordinance authorizing the development and finance plan.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit financial reports to the Village Council at
the same time and on the same basis as other departments of the village are
required to submit reports. The Authority shall be audited annually, and copies
of the audit report shall be filed with the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 33.08) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990)
§ 33.09 FINANCES.
   The Authority is hereby authorized by the village to effect financing for
Authority needs from one or more of the sources authorized by Public Act 57 of
2018, being MCL 125.4201 et seq., and Act 57.
(Prior Code, § 33.09) (Ord. passed 2-6-1990)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
34.01   Administration
   
34.02   Adoption
   
34.03   Purpose
   
34.04   Enforcement and enforcing agent
 
   
34.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Burning of waste material, see
Ch. 37
   Fire and explosion hazards, see
Ch. 38
§ 34.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   Pursuant to the General Law Village Act, being Public Act 3 of 1895, being
MCL 61.1 et seq., as amended, and consistent with the Fire Prevention Code,
being Public Act 207 of 1941, being MCL 29.1 et seq., the Village Council may
implement ordinances governing fire prevention and protection, including the
delegation of said responsibilities to another agency, when not in conflict
with the laws of the state. The Village Council may also adopt by reference
Public Act 256 of 2011, being MCL 28.451 et seq., as amended, thereby adopting
state statutes pertaining to the use of consumer fireworks.
§ 34.02 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The village hereby recognizes and adopts by reference the
International Fire Code, as amended, promulgated by the International Code
Council (ICC), and the Uniform Fire Code (NFPA 1) and Life Safety Code (NFPA
101), as amended, promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association, for
the purpose of providing fire prevention rules and regulations affecting all
buildings, structures and construction within the village to ensure public
safety, health and welfare insofar as they are dependent on proper fire
prevention procedures.
   (B)   It is further ordained that the most recent edition of said codes
shall take effect in the village once issued by the ICC and/or NFPA unless
specific action is taken by the Village Council to the contrary. The edition of
the International Fire Code in effect at the time of a building’s construction,
renovation or change in occupancy classification shall remain the binding
edition on that building unless otherwise specified in the Code or by village
ordinance.
Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.03 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the enforcement and
administration of the International Fire Code and Uniform Fire Code and Life
Safety Code.
   (B)   The scope includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Inspection of permanent and temporary buildings, processes,
equipment, systems and other fire and related life safety situations;
      (2)   Investigations of fires, explosions, hazardous materials incidents
and other related emergency incidents;
      (3)   Review of design and construction plans (excluding single- and two-
family standalone structures), drawings and specifications for life safety
systems, fire protection systems, accesses, water supplies, processes,
hazardous materials and other fire and life safety issues;
      (4)   Fire and life safety education of fire brigades, employees,
responsible parties and the general public;
      (5)   Existing occupancies and conditions (excluding single- and two-
family standalone structures), the design and construction of new buildings,
remodeling of existing buildings and additions to existing buildings;
      (6)   Design, alteration, modification, construction, maintenance and
testing of fire protection systems and equipment;
      (7)   Access requirements for Fire Department operations;
      (8)   Hazards for outside fires in vegetation, trash, building debris and
other materials;
      (9)   Regulation and control of special events, including, but not
limited to, assemblages of people, exhibits, trade shows, amusement parks,
haunted houses, outdoor events and other similar special temporary and
permanent occupancies;
      (10)   Interior finish, decorations, furnishings and other combustibles
that contribute to fire spread, fire load and smoke production;
      (11)   Storage, use, processing, handling and on-site transportation of
flammable and combustible gases, liquids and solids;
      (12)   Storage, use, processing, handling and on-site transportation of
hazardous materials;
      (13)   Control of emergency operations and scenes; and
      (14)   Conditions affecting firefighter safety.
§ 34.04 ENFORCEMENT AND ENFORCING AGENT.
   (A)   The village hereby elects to delegate responsibility for fire
prevention and protection to the Grass Lake Charter Township Fire Department,
which shall assume responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the
International Fire Code, as amended, promulgated by the International Code
Council (ICC), and the Uniform Fire Code (NFPA 1) and Life Safety Code (NFPA
101), as amended, promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association.
   (B)   The enforcing agent acting on behalf of the village to discharge the
responsibilities of the village under this chapter is designated as the Grass
Lake Charter Township Fire Chief or designee.
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
CHAPTER 35: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
Cost Recovery
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Applicability
   
35.03   Cost recovery
   
35.04   Minimum cost recovery
COST RECOVERY
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The village is authorized to recover its reasonable costs of response,
arrest and prosecution of ordinance violations and, the village desiring to
recover the costs, this subchapter has been adopted to permit and establish the
cost recoveries.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 29, passed 1-16-1999)
§ 35.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the violation of any
village ordinance, including traffic and zoning offenses.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 29, passed 1-16-1999)
§ 35.03 COST RECOVERY.
   The village shall have the right to apply to and receive from any court of
competent jurisdiction its reasonable costs of response to citation for, arrest
for or prosecution of any village ordinance violation. The recovery of the
costs may be had in any case, including dismissals upon payment of costs.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 29, passed 1-16-1999)
§ 35.04 MINIMUM COST RECOVERY.
   Any violation prosecuted in court, including dismissals by the prosecution,
shall carry a minimum cost recovery as set out in the fee schedule in Ch. 39 of
this code unless otherwise waived by the village.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 29, passed 1-16-1999)
CHAPTER 36: LIFE SAFETY CODE
Section
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Administration and enforcement; enforcement agent
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the enforcement and
administration of the Life, Health and Safety Code.
Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly implies or requires a different meaning.
   AREAS NOT ADDRESSED. The Code does not address the following:
      (1)   General fire prevention or building construction features that are
normally a function of the fire prevention codes and building codes;
      (2)   Prevention of injury incurred by an individual due to that
individual’s failure to use reasonable care; or
      (3)   Preservation of property from loss by fire.
   CONSIDERATIONS NOT RELATED TO FIRE. The Code addresses considerations that,
while important in fire conditions, provide an ongoing benefit in other
conditions of use, including non-fire emergencies.
   DANGER TO LIFE FROM FIRE. The Code addresses those construction, protection
and occupancy features necessary to minimize DANGER TO LIFE FROM FIRE,
including smoke, fumes or panic.
   EGRESS FACILITIES. The Code establishes minimum criteria for the design of
EGRESS FACILITIES so as to allow prompt escape of occupants from buildings or,
where desirable, into safe areas within buildings.
   OTHER FIRE-RELATED CONSIDERATIONS. The Code addresses considerations that
are essential to life safety in recognition of the fact that life safety is
more than a matter of egress. The Code also addresses protective features and
systems, building services, operating features, maintenance activities and
other provisions in recognition of the fact that achieving an acceptable degree
of life safety depends on additional safeguards to provide adequate egress time
or protection for people exposed to fire.
   THIS CODE or THE CODE. Life Safety Code (NFPA 101) shall be known as the
“Life Safety Code,” is cited as such, and shall be referred to herein as THIS
CODE or THE CODE.
§ 36.03 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
   (A)   (1)   The village hereby elects to delegate responsibility for fire
prevention and protection to the Grass Lake Charter Township Fire Department,
which shall assume responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the
Life Safety Code (NFPA 101), as amended, promulgated by the National Fire
Protection Association.
      (2)   It further is ordained that the most recent edition of said Code
shall take effect in the village once issued by the ICC or NFPA unless specific
action is taken by Village Council to the contrary.
   (B)   The enforcing agent acting on behalf of the village to discharge the
responsibilities of the village under this chapter is designated as the Fire
Chief for Grass Lake Charter Township or his or her designee.
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person or entity
responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this chapter
may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by the
village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or may be
subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent jurisdiction
intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village may also
enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or other
relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction notices.
Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall constitute a
separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act prohibited by
this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any omissions or
failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
CHAPTER 37: BURNING OF WASTE MATERIAL
Section
   
37.01   Prohibited acts
   
37.02   Inside a building or structure
   
37.03   Outside of buildings
   
37.04   Burning of yard waste prohibited
   
37.05   Streets and highways, curbs and sidewalks
   
37.06   Cooking fires
   
37.07   Recreational fires
   
37.08   Nuisances
 
   
37.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire and explosion hazards, see
Ch. 38
   Fire prevention and protection, see
Ch. 34
§ 37.01 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be burned any waste
material, refuse, leaves, paper or other combustible debris within the village,
except as provided by Village Council only on days designated for the burning
of twigs or brush and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.02 INSIDE A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   No such burning shall be permitted inside a building or structure unless the
burning is done in a stove, furnace or incinerator approved by the Mechanical
Inspector.
Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.03 OUTSIDE OF BUILDINGS.
   No such burning is permitted outside of buildings or structures in the
village unless in accordance with all of the following conditions.
   (A)   Location. No burning shall be allowed within 20 feet of an existing
building or five feet of a property line, provided that no adjacent building is
within 15 feet of said property line.
   (B)   Container. Burning in any container commonly referred to as a burn
barrel, or similar container, is prohibited at all times. Approved open cooking
fires or bonfires must be contained in a barbecue grill or fire pit consisting
of a metal ring or stone, brick or concrete structure.
   (C)   Time. No such burning shall be done prior to sunrise and must not be
continued after sunset in any one day.
   (D)   Size. No such burning shall be done in an area exceeding 15 square
feet (three-foot circular).
   (E)   Nuisance. No burning shall be done at any time or place of garbage,
refuse, construction waste or any materials which, when burning, give off foul,
noxious or obnoxious odors or a dense smoke, or when wind conditions will
create or be apt to create a nuisance to anyone, or to the property of anyone,
in the vicinity thereof.
   (F)   Fires. The Village Council or its designated agent may prohibit such
fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances are deemed, in its
sole discretion, to make such fires hazardous in its discretion.
   (G)   Permit. When open burning is allowed in the village, as designated by
Village Council, a permit shall first be obtained from the Grass Lake Charter
Township Fire Chief or designee.
   (H)   Construction materials. During construction or demolition of buildings
or structures, no waste material or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on
the premises or in the immediate vicinity within the village.
   (I)   Open burning. No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or brush
fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained, except on days so
authorized by Village Council (generally the last Saturday of the months of
January, February and March), without having obtained a permit from the Grass
Lake Charter Township Fire Chief or designee. Permits may be rescinded by the
Fire Chief and open burning shall be prohibited, including all bonfires and
open cooking fires, when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make
such fires hazardous.
Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.04 BURNING OF YARD WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or permit the burning of yard waste, including leaves,
grass clippings, vegetable or other garden debris, unseasoned or live
shrubbery, brush, tree clippings or similar materials to occur upon any
privately owned premises or any public place unless in accordance with approved
burn days so designated by Village Council and when a required permit has been
obtained from the Grass Lake Charter Township Fire Chief or designee, subject
to revocation when atmospheric or ground conditions would make the burning of
yard waste hazardous.
Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.05 STREETS AND HIGHWAYS, CURBS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall cause or permit material of any kind to be burned, or
attempt to burn material, on or within five feet of any street, alley, highway
or sidewalk or between any curb and the sidewalk adjacent thereto within the
village.
Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.06 COOKING FIRES.
   Fires are permitted for the cooking and smoking of food, provided that such
fires are confined to a barbecue grill, covered barbecue pit, smokehouse or
other enclosure, and further provided that the emission of smoke and fumes does
not irritate, annoy or constitute a nuisance to others living in the vicinity.
Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.07 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   Recreational fires, including bonfires, on private property are permitted
when in a fire pit, fireplace or other enclosure designed for recreational
fires, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No burning shall be allowed within 20 feet of an existing building or
five feet of a property line when no adjacent building is within 15 feet of
said property line. No such burning shall be permitted on any public paved
surface.
   (B)   Burning shall be done in containers or areas with nonflammable
containment rings measuring less than 15 square feet (three-foot diameter) in
area.
   (C)   Fires are attended until extinguished and ashes are cold.
   (D)   Only clean, untreated wood products (including seasoned/dead
shrubbery, brush or tree clippings) or commercially produced fuel products are
burned.
   (E)   Atmospheric conditions are favorable.
   (F)   The fire does not produce emissions of dense smoke or fumes which
irritate, annoy or constitute a nuisance to others living in the vicinity.
   (G)   No such burning shall be done at any time or place when wind
conditions will create or be apt to create a nuisance to anyone, or to the
property of anyone, in the vicinity thereof, or be a danger to the property of
any person in the vicinity thereof.
   (H)   No such burning shall be done where its maximum size is not
controllable by one person of mature years and discretion.
   (I)   No burning shall be done unless an adequate water supply or fire
extinguisher is available at the burning site to control the fire.
Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.08 NUISANCES.
   It shall be a nuisance and unlawful for any person to burn or allow to be
burned, at any time or place, any material of any kind exuding smoke which
endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose of the public, or causes
noxious or obnoxious odors, or when such fire emits sparks or burning embers
upon adjoining, adjacent, neighboring or nearby premises.
Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and costs
to extinguish any unlawful burning and/or may be subject to injunctive relief
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with
the village code. The village may also enforce violations of this chapter by
civil actions for injunctive or other relief provided by law or by issuance of
municipal civil infraction notices. It may also enforce violations of this
chapter by requiring payment of costs incurred to extinguish an unlawful
burning prior to seeking legal action. Every day a violation of this chapter
continues to exist shall constitute a separate violation. Violations of this
chapter include any act prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful
by this chapter, and any omissions or failure to act in compliance with this
chapter.
CHAPTER 38: FIRE AND EXPLOSION HAZARDS
Section
   
38.01   Purpose
   
38.02   Definitions
   
38.03   Damage to fire equipment
   
38.04   Obstruction of fire hydrants
   
38.05   Opening fire hydrants
   
38.06   Fire inspection
   
38.07   Waste accumulation and storage
   
38.08   Fire exits
   
38.09   Blasting
 
   
38.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Burning of waste material, see
Ch. 37
   Fire prevention and protection, see
Ch. 34
§ 38.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe regulations governing conditions
hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
§ 38.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN FIRE. Includes, but is not limited to, bonfires, rubbish and brush
fires and those fires not contained within an approved waste burner/
incinerator.
   PERSON. Refers to an individual, partnerships, firms, businesses,
corporations, organizations, schools, churches and institutions.
§ 38.03 DAMAGE TO FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully take for his or her own private use or damage in
any manner any firefighting equipment or apparatus or anything pertaining to
the Grass Lake Charter Township Fire Department firefighting system, or drive
any vehicle upon or against any hose or equipment of the Grass Lake Charter
Township Fire Department.
Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.04 OBSTRUCTION OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed, or having placed or caused to
be placed, allow to remain, any obstruction whatsoever within 15 feet of any
fire hydrant.
Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.05 OPENING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person, unless authorized by the village or the Grass Lake Charter
Township Fire Department or state statutes, shall use any fire hydrant, except
in case of emergency.
   (B)   In no case shall any wrench or tool be used on any fire hydrant other
than a regulation Department of Public Works or Fire Department hydrant wrench.
Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.06 FIRE INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Grass Lake Charter Township Fire Chief or designee is hereby
empowered to enter upon any premises, building or structure, at reasonable
times, for the purpose of examining and inspecting the same to ascertain the
conditions, arrangement, efficiency and adequacy of any firefighting
appliances. In the event that said inspection discloses a fire hazard or
deficiency in any firefighting appliance, the Fire Chief shall order the
condition remedied.
   (B)   The Fire Chief may appoint one or more employees of the Grass Lake
Charter Township Fire Department to make the aforesaid inspections, and said
inspectors are empowered to make such written orders as may be necessary to
correct any fire hazard or deficiency in a firefighting appliance as the Fire
Chief is authorized to make. Every order made by the Fire Chief or designee, or
authorized member of the Grass Lake Charter Township Fire Department, shall set
forth a reasonable time for correction of the hazard or deficiency and shall be
promptly obeyed.
Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.07 WASTE ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE.
   No person owning or being responsible for any premises shall permit any
wastepaper, ashes, oil, rags, excelsior or any material of a similar nature to
accumulate thereon unless contained in fire-proof receptacles. Dead weeds,
grass, vines or other nonagricultural growth which is a potential fire hazard
to property shall be removed by the person responsible for the premises. Should
the person fail to control or remove such materials, the village may have the
material removed and the expense thereof charged to the responsible person.
Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.08 FIRE EXITS.
   The following rules relative to passageways, stairs and fire exists shall be
applicable to all public buildings, places of assembly, commercial and business
buildings, motels, apartment buildings, lodging houses, tourist homes and all
other buildings except private dwellings, and except as otherwise expressly
limited herein to a particular type of building.
   (A)   Fire escape openings. No fire escape, stairway, balcony or ladder on
any building shall be obstructed, out-of-repair or maintained in a hazardous
condition. Doors and windows leading to any fire escape shall open easily from
the inside.
   (B)   Hazardous egress. No combustible material shall be stored, placed or
kept under or upon any passageway, stairs or elevator shaft, nor shall any such
material be stored, placed or kept in any other part of any building in such a
position so as to obstruct or render hazardous egress therefrom.
   (C)   Obstructions. All doors, hallways and stairways shall be unobstructed
at all times.
   (D)   Public assembly. In all theaters, churches, schools and other places
of public assembly, no door, aisle or passageway shall be obstructed with any
furniture or article; nor shall any person sit or stand, or be permitted to sit
or stand, in any aisle or in any exit or passageway; and all exits and the
sidewalks leading therefrom shall be unobstructed while such places of public
assembly are in use.
   (E)   Causing of violation. No person shall do any act which causes any
violation of any of the rules set forth in this section, nor shall any person
owning a building or in charge thereof as agent or employee permit any of said
rules to be violated.
Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.09 BLASTING.
   No person shall blast or carry on any blasting operation within the village.
Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
CHAPTER 39: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
39.01   Schedule of fees
§ 39.01 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The Village Council may from time to time review and amend the fees as set
forth in the fee schedule by resolution in accordance with all applicable laws.
Section Description Cost
Section Description                                                 Cost
Ch. 35     Tax and Finance
§      Minimum cost recovery for violations prosecuted in court    $25
35.04
Ch. 50     Sewer Use; Rates and Regulations
§      Cash deposit (security for payment of charges/service)      $100
50.28   Turn-on charge after discontinuance of service              $20
Ch. 70     Golf Cart Regulations
§      Registration decal fee                                      $10
70.05
Ch. 90     Animals
§      Annual permit to keep chickens                              $10
90.20
Ch. 92     Streets and Sidewalks
§      Administrative fee after sidewalk clearance by village      $50
92.46
Ch. 93     Storage of Motor Vehicles
§      Permit for dismantled/partially dismantled/inoperable motor $5
93.02   vehicle to remain on premises an additional 30 days
Ch. 96     Marihuana Caregivers
§      Permit application fee                                      $300
96.04
Ch. 110    General Licensing
§      Nominal license fee                                         $5
110.01
Ch. 112    Telecommunications Providers
§      One-time nonrefundable application fee                      $500
112.04
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER USE; RATES AND REGULATIONS
      
51.   WATER CHARGE COLLECTION
      
52.   CROSS-CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50: SEWER USE; RATES AND REGULATIONS
Section
Sewer Rules and Regulations
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   General provisions
   
50.04   Waste and wastewater disposal; discharge to natural outlets prohibited;
wetland protection
   
50.05   Private wastewater disposal
   
50.06   Building sewers and connections
   
50.07   Protection of wastewater facilities from critical materials
   
50.08   Discharges to the village wastewater facilities
   
50.09   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
50.10   Determination of wastewater characteristics
   
50.11   Enforcement
   
50.12   Use by persons outside of village
   
50.13   Miscellaneous
   
50.14   Title
Sewer Use Rates
   
50.25   Purpose
   
50.26   Definitions
   
50.27   Supervision
   
50.28   Rates and charges
   
50.29   No free service
   
50.30   Service connection
   
50.31   Sufficiency of rates
   
50.32   Fiscal year
   
50.33   Depository accounts
   
50.34   Transfer of funds
   
50.35   Investments
   
50.36   Sewer grinder pump replacement fee
 
   
50.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Sewage Usage Rates
   
Appendix B:   Sewage Hook-Up Rates
SEWER RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary for the public health,
safety and welfare of the village that it regulates the use of the public
wastewater system operated by it.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing Materials.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen used in the
biochemical oxidation of a given amount of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from a building wastewater plumbing facility
to the public wastewater facility.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. A measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater, expressed as the
amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. It does
not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter, and thus does not
necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any premises not within the definition of “residential
user” or “industrial user” and which is connected to the village’s wastewater
facilities.
   DNR. This state’s Department of Natural Resources.
   EGLA. This state’s Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy.
   GPD. Gallons per day.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any premises whose use is categorized or identified in
Division A, B, D, E or I of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual or
which discharges wastewater containing any substance which causes interference
in the wastewater facilities.
   mg/l or MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. An expression of the relationship of mass of a
substance to the volume of the solution it is in, independent of the specific
gravity.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or any
other body of surface or groundwater.
   NPDES. The National pollutant discharge elimination system permit program,
whether administered by the EPA or by this state.
   OWNER. The person or persons who legally own, lease or occupy private
property with facilities that discharge to the village’s wastewater facilities.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, partnership,
corporation, public entity or other similar organization, agency or group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in grams per liter of solution, as determined by Standard Methods.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land and each building which has any
connection to the water distribution system or the wastewater facilities of the
village.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any premises consisting of a single-unit, duplex or
multiple-unit dwelling used only for human residency and which is connected to
the village’s water or wastewater facilities.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any introduction into the village’s wastewater facilities of
waste or wastewater in concentrations of any given constituent or in quantity
of flow which adversely affects the operation and performance of the wastewater
facilities.
   SS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water or wastewater, as determined by
Standard Methods.
   STORM SEWER. A pipe or conduit that conveys stormwater runoff and other
waters which are not intended to be transported to a wastewater treatment
facility.
   SUPERVISOR. The President of the village, or where the President has
delegated a responsibility or right under this subchapter to another official
or employee of the village, the term shall include that person.
   TOC or TOTAL ORGANIC CARBON. A measurement of the organic chemicals present
in water or wastewater, expressed in milligrams per liter, as the amount of
organic carbon oxidized under specified conditions.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of a quality and characteristics that it would not
be benefitted by discharge to the wastewater treatment facilities or that it
would not cause any degradation of water quality by direct discharge to a
receiving water.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grass Lake, Michigan, a municipal corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industries and institutions, together with
any groundwater, surface water or stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
      (1)   The wastewater sewers, including sanitary sewers, storm sewers and
combined sewers, lift stations and pumping stations; and
      (2)   The wastewater treatment plant, including its structures, processes
and equipment necessary for treatment and discharge of wastewater of the
village.
   WASTEWATER SERVICES. The availability or use of the village’s wastewater
facilities for discharge by any person or premises of wastewater, as well as
any labor and materials provided by the village for the connection of any
premises to the village’s wastewater facilities, and for repairs and
maintenance by the village to the wastewater facilities or building sewers on
any premises, and costs incurred by the village in enforcing the collection of
charges for WASTEWATER SERVICE to any person or with respect to any premises.
   WASTEWATER SEWER. The structures, processes, equipment and arrangements
necessary to collect and transport wastewater to the treatment facility.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. The structures, processes, equipment and
arrangements necessary to treat and discharge wastewaters.
   WATER SERVICES. The availability or use by any person or premises of the
water commodity, as well as labor and materials provided by the village for the
connection of any premises to the village’s water distribution system, and for
repairs and maintenance by the village to water connections and meters of any
premises, and costs incurred by the village in enforcing the collection of
charges for water services to any person or with respect to any premises.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide the maximum
possible beneficial public use of the village wastewater facilities through
regulation of wastewater discharges, sewer construction and sewer use, to
provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the village’s wastewater
facilities and to provide procedures for complying with the requirements
contained herein.
   (B)   Scope. This subchapter shall apply to the village and to persons
outside the village who, by contract or agreement with the village, or by the
terms of this subchapter, are users of the village’s wastewater facilities.
   (C)   Administration. Except as otherwise provided herein, the Village
Manager, or a representative designated by the Village Manager, shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this subchapter and shall
establish administrative procedures and policies for those purposes.
   (D)   Notice of violation. Any person found in violation of this subchapter
or any requirements of a permit issued hereunder may be served with a written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for compliance. Any notice given shall be in writing and served in person
or by registered or certified mail. This notice shall be sent to the last
address of the violator known to the Village Manager. Where the address is
unknown, service may be made upon the owner of record of the property involved.
In determining what is a reasonable time limit for compliance, the Village
Manager shall first consider the effect of the violation on the village’s
wastewater facilities and on the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the village. The requirement of notice of violation shall not apply where it is
specifically not stated in this section.
   (E)   Violations. Any person who continues to violate the provisions of this
subchapter beyond the time limit provided for in the notice sent pursuant to
division (D) above shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and,
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
50.99 of this chapter.
   (F)   Continued violation. It is hereby determined that the operation of the
village wastewater facilities is a service essential to the health, safety and
welfare of the inhabitants of the village and surrounding areas, and that it is
necessary to protect the continued uninhibited operation of the facilities by
regulation of their use. It is therefore declared that continued violation of
this subchapter after notice as required under this section constitutes a
public nuisance which may be abated by civil suit in any court of competent
jurisdiction, which remedy shall be in addition to others provided in this
section.
   (G)   Fees and charges.
      (1)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this section
shall be paid to the village. The fees and charges shall be as set forth herein
or as established from time to time by resolution of the Village Council.
      (2)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this section
are due and payable upon the receipt of notice of charges. Unpaid amounts shall
become delinquent and shall be subject to penalty and/or interest charges, as
provided for in the rate resolution.
   (H)   Inspections.
      (1)   The DPW Supervisor or his or her agents, bearing proper credentials
and identification, shall be permitted to enter properties at any reasonable
time for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement and sampling of
the wastewater discharges to ensure proper wastewater discharge and compliance
with all laws and regulations. All entry and any subsequent work must be done
in full accordance with an existing easement or in areas where the village
lawfully can perform work.
      (2)   The DPW Supervisor, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter at all reasonable times all private property over
which the village holds an easement for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any of the
village’s wastewater facilities lying within the easement. All entry and any
subsequent work on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the easement.
      (3)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in this section, the DPW Supervisor shall observe all safety rules
established by the owner or occupant of the property and applicable to the
premises.
      (4)   During the performance on private properties of inspections,
wastewater sampling or other similar operations referred to in this section,
the owner and occupant shall be:
         (a)   Indemnified against loss of or damage to property of the owner
or occupant by the DPW Supervisor; and
         (b)   Indemnified against and held harmless from claims asserted
against the owner or occupant for bodily injury or death of the DPW Supervisor
or for loss or damage to property of the village, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the owner or occupant to maintain safe conditions
as required in this section.
   (I)   Vandalism.
      (1)   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the village’s wastewater facilities. Any person who
violates this section shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
punished according to §
50.99 of this code.
      (2)   The notice requirements of division (D) above shall not apply to
this division (I).
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 WASTE AND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL; DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS PROHIBITED;
WETLAND PROTECTION.
   (A)   Waste disposal. It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit
or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Wastewater disposal. Except as provided in this subchapter, it shall
be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (C)   Wastewater discharges to natural outlets; storm drains; wetlands.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge without an NPDES permit to any
natural outlet within the village, or in any area under its jurisdiction,
either directly or through a village storm sewer or wetland.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct regulated activities
in any wetland area within the village without a permit from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources for regulated wetlands or a review and approval
by the village at the time of issuing a zoning permit for non-regulated
wetlands.
      (3)   Activities that may be regulated in a wetland under this section
include the following, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Depositing or permitting the depositing of any material,
including, but not limited to, hazardous chemicals, non-biodegradable aquatic
pesticides and herbicides and harmful fertilizers;
         (b)   Dredging or removing, or permitting the dredging or removal of,
material or minerals;
         (c)   Erecting or building any structure, including, but not limited
to, buildings, roadways, bridges of any type, tennis courts, paving and utility
or private poles or towers;
         (d)   Constructing, operating or maintaining any land use or
development;
         (e)   Constructing, placing, enlarging, extending or removing any
temporary, seasonal or permanent operation or structure upon wetlands, except
for seasonal docks, rafts, diving platforms and other water recreational
devices;
         (f)   Constructing, extending, enlarging or connecting any conduit,
pipe, culvert or open or closed drainage facility carrying stormwater runoff
from any site within a wetlands area, or any other land use permitting the
discharge of silt, sediment, organic or inorganic material, chemical
fertilizers, flammable liquids or other polluting substances, except in
accordance with the requirements of county, state and federal agencies and the
village; and
         (g)   Activities by a governmental entity relating to the
construction, maintenance or repair of a public highway, street, roadway, sewer
system, drainage system or water main facility are exempt from the requirements
of divisions (C)(3)(a) through (f) above, except as required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Private system required.
      (1)   All houses, buildings or properties which are required by other
authority to have sanitary or industrial wastewater facilities and are located
where a proper wastewater sewer is not available or required, as specified by
the provisions of division (D) below, shall be equipped at the owner’s expense
with suitable wastewater facilities connected to a private wastewater disposal
system which complies with the provisions of this section and all applicable
requirements of the Public Health and County Sanitation Code.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any private system which discharges
directly to a natural outlet by authority of a separate NPDES permit and in
compliance with applicable state and federal laws.
   (B)   Sanitary operation required. The owner shall operate and maintain
private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times in
accordance with applicable state requirements and at no expense to the village.
The facilities shall be subject to inspection by the DPW Supervisor at
reasonable times.
   (C)   Further requirements. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirement that may be imposed by
health officials or other applicable authorities.
   (D)   Connection to wastewater sewer required.
      (1)   The owner of any house, building or property which is used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which there is located a wastewater sewer
connected to the treatment facility of the village is required, at the owner’s
expense, to install suitable wastewater disposal facilities therein, and to
connect the facilities directly to the proper sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this section, within 12 months after the date of official notice
to do so, provided that the proper wastewater sewer is within 200 feet (61
meters) of the property line and principal building, within 200 feet of the
property line or if required by the County Health Department.
      (2)   Any septic tanks, cesspools or similar wastewater disposal
facilities shall, upon connection of toilet facilities to the wastewater sewer,
be emptied of wastes and refilled with suitable material to prevent collapse.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to any persons served by a privately
constructed, owned, operated and maintained wastewater sewer and wastewater
treatment facility which discharges directly to a natural outlet, in accordance
with the provisions of this section and applicable state and federal laws.
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993; Ord. 21, passed 3-7-1995)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Connection and use permits.
      (1)   (a)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, use, alter, disturb or
make any connections with or opening into any wastewater sewer or a storm
sewer, nor shall any person discharge any substance into such sewers, without
possessing a valid connection and use permit of a class appropriate to the use
of the premises and the discharges to the wastewater facilities therefrom.
         (b)   All persons presently using the village wastewater facilities
shall be deemed to possess a valid connection and use permit, which shall
continue until:
            1.   The person significantly changes the flow, strength or other
characteristics of the discharges to the village’s wastewater facilities;
            2.   The permit is suspended by the DPW Supervisor as provided in
this section; or
            3.   Additional connections to the village’s wastewater facilities
are made.
      (2)   (a)   There shall be three classes of permits for connections to
and use of the village’s wastewater facilities:
            1.   Class I - Residential Users;
            2.   Class II - Commercial Users; and
            3.   Class III - Industrial Users.
         (b)   In all cases, the owner shall make application on a form
furnished by the village for a permit of the applicable class to connect to the
village’s wastewater facilities. The permit application shall be supplemented
by the wastewater information as required by the DPW Supervisor to administer
this subchapter. A permit and inspection fee in an amount determined by rate
resolution of the Village Council shall be paid to the village at the time an
application is filed.
      (3)   The DPW Supervisor may deny a connection and use permit if the
application for permit shows that anticipated discharges will be harmful to the
village’s wastewater facilities, will violate the provisions of this section or
in any other way will hamper the operations of those facilities. The DPW
Supervisor may require, as a condition to granting the permit, that the
applicant enter into an agreement as set forth in §
50.08(C) of this code.
      (4)   The DPW Supervisor shall not issue a connection and use permit for
any applicant unless there is sufficient capacity not legally committed to
other users in the wastewater sewers and treatment facilities to convey and
adequately treat the quantity and quality of wastewater which the requested
connection will add to the system. The DPW Supervisor may allow the permit if
there are legally binding commitments to provide the needed capacity.
      (5)   The DPW Supervisor may, upon notice of violation as required in §
50.03(D) of this code, suspend any connection and use permit for violation of
the terms of this section.
   (B)   Connection costs. The costs and expenses incidental to the building
sewer installation and connection to the village wastewater facilities shall be
borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
   (C)   Separate connections required; exception.
      (1)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on
an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer in the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer.
      (2)   The village assumes no responsibility for damage caused by or
resulting from any single building sewer which serves two buildings.
   (D)   Existing building sewers. Existing building sewers may be used for
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the DPW Supervisor, to meet the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Building sewer design.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, construction materials, trench
excavation and backfill methods, pipe placements, jointing and testing methods
used in the construction and installation of the building sewer shall conform
to the building and plumbing codes or other applicable requirements of the
village.
      (2)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF shall apply.
   (F)   Building sewer elevation. Whenever practicable, the building sewer
shall be brought to a building at an elevation below the basement floor. In
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
village’s wastewater sewer, wastewater carried by the building drain shall be
lifted by an approved means and discharged to a building sewer draining to the
village sewer.
   (G)   Connections to natural outlets or storm sewers. No person shall
connect roof, foundation, areaway, parking lot, roadway or other surface runoff
or groundwater drains to any sewer which is connected to the village’s
wastewater treatment system unless the connection is required for purposes of
disposal of polluted surface drainage and is approved in writing by the DPW
Supervisor.
   (H)   Conformance to applicable codes.
      (1)   The connection of a building sewer into a wastewater sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable requirements of the village, or the procedures set forth in the
appropriate specifications of the ASTM or the WPCF. The connections shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved in writing by the
DPW Supervisor before installation.
      (2)   The connection of a surface runoff or groundwater drain to a storm
sewer or natural outlet that is designed to transport surface runoff or
groundwater drainage shall conform to the requirements of the applicable
building code or other applicable requirements of the village. The connection
of any such drain to a wastewater outlet requires a special permit, as provided
under division (G) above, and shall conform to the requirements specified by
the DPW Supervisor as a condition of approval of the permit.
   (I)   Connection inspection. The applicant for a building sewer or other
drainage connection and use permit shall notify the DPW Supervisor when the
sewer or drainage connection is ready for inspection prior to its connection to
the village’s wastewater facilities, and upon payment of any fees required by
the village, inspection and testing as deemed necessary by the DPW Supervisor
and as required by village building and plumbing codes shall be conducted.
   (J)   Excavation guards and property restoration. Excavations for building
sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as
to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, pathways and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a
manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 PROTECTION OF WASTEWATER FACILITIES FROM CRITICAL MATERIALS.
   (A)   Critical materials spill prevention plan.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CRITICAL MATERIAL. Any substance listed on the state’s Water Resource
Commission critical materials register, as amended from time to time, and shall
include any other substance which, if discharged to the village’s wastewater
facilities, would either singly or by interaction with other substances violate
this section’s restriction on discharges.
         CRITICAL MATERIALS FACILITY. Any premises where critical materials are
stored, used or handled.
      (2)   No person shall store, use or handle any critical materials or
cause any critical materials to be stored, used or handled in the village,
except in accordance with and pursuant to a spill prevention plan for critical
materials that has been approved in writing by the Village Manager.
      (3)   The owner, operator or manager of a critical material facility
shall file with the village 30 days prior to the first storage, use or handling
of a critical material, in the case of new construction or operations, a spill
prevention plan for critical materials. The spill prevention plan shall
include:
         (a)   The procedures by which the critical material facility shall
prevent spills of critical materials into the village wastewater facilities
from receiving, storage and use areas, manufacturing processes, treatment
systems and shipping of materials, including those procedures and the details
of containment structures required by this section;
         (b)   The surveillance procedures to be employed by the critical
materials facility for loading and off-loading processes and for manufacturing
processes, treatment systems and storage areas;
         (c)   Emergency cleanup procedures to be used in case of a spill,
discharge, seepage, runoff or leakage of critical materials into a public
sewer; and
         (d)   The method by which inventories are made of critical materials
from the time the critical material is received or manufactured until a time as
it is treated and discharged or shipped out by the facility.
      (4)   If the DPW Supervisor determines that a spill prevention plan for
critical materials prepared pursuant to this section does not comply with the
requirements of this section, the DPW Supervisor may return the plan to the
owner, operator or manager of the facility with findings and recommendations
and may require modifications thereof. The owner, operator or manager of the
facility shall modify and resubmit the spill prevention plan to the village
within 30 days following the request.
      (5)   The DPW Supervisor shall approve a spill prevention plan for
critical materials if the plan complies with the requirements of division (A)
(3) above and reasonably provides for the containment and surveillance of
critical materials so as to prevent their introduction into the village’s
wastewater facilities.
   (B)   Containment structure for critical materials storage and use areas.
      (1)   A storage or use area at a critical materials facility with
critical materials in liquid form shall be diked, curbed or otherwise
structurally enclosed so as to be capable of containing not less than 150% of
the liquid polluting materials containing the critical material which are
stored or used unless a lesser containment area or alternate control measures
are approved in writing by the DPW Supervisor as part of a critical materials
spill prevention plan.
      (2)   Critical materials in solid form shall be stored in security areas
designed to prevent the loss of that material into the village’s wastewater
facilities.
   (C)   Surveillance.
      (1)   Upon any unloading or offloading of critical materials through a
conduit to or from a storage facility, tanker or other means of transportation,
surveillance, in accordance with a critical materials spill prevention plan
approved by the DPW Supervisor under division (A) above, shall be conducted by
the critical materials facility until all the operations are completed so that
any critical material spillage can be immediately detected and procedures
implemented to prevent the critical material from reaching the village
wastewater facilities.
      (2)   Critical materials facilities shall maintain adequate surveillance,
in accordance with a critical materials spill prevention plan, of all
manufacturing processes, treatment systems, storage areas and other areas so
that critical material loss therefrom can be immediately detected and
procedures implemented to prevent the critical material from reaching the
village wastewater facilities.
   (D)   Spillage report. The owner, operator or manager of a facility which
spills a critical material shall immediately notify the DPW Supervisor of such
a spill. Within ten days of the spill, the critical material facility shall
file a report with the DPW Supervisor outlining the nature of the spill, its
cause, its discovery, steps taken to prevent the critical materials from
reaching the village’s wastewater facilities, reasons for the failure of the
spill prevention plan and the procedures the facility will take to prevent a
reoccurrence of the spill.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 DISCHARGES TO THE VILLAGE WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   Connection and use permit. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any wastes or wastewaters in the village’s wastewater facilities
without first obtaining the appropriate connection and use permit from the DPW
Supervisor in accordance with §
50.06(A) of this code.
   (B)   Restricted discharges. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged to any of the village wastewater facilities any substances,
materials, waters or wastes in quantities or concentrations which:
      (1)   Will create a fire or explosion hazard (including substances such
as gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oils or other flammable or explosive
liquids, solids or gases);
      (2)   Will cause corrosive damage or hazard to structures, equipment or
personnel of the village wastewater facilities;
      (3)   Have a pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 10.0 for more than 10% of
the time in a 24-hour period;
      (4)   Have a pH lower than 3.5 or greater than 12.0 for any period
exceeding 15 minutes;
      (5)   Will cause obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference
with the operation of wastewater facilities due to accumulation of solid or
viscous materials;
      (6)   Will constitute a rate of discharge and/or concentration which
substantially deviates from normal rates of discharge, thereby creating a slug
discharge sufficient in magnitude to cause interference with the operation and
performance of the wastewater facilities;
      (7)   Contain heat in amounts which will accelerate the biodegradation of
wastes, causing the formation of excessive amounts of hydrogen sulfide in the
wastewater sewer or inhibiting biological activity in the wastewater treatment
facilities, or which will cause the temperature in the wastewater sewer to
exceed 58°C (150°F) or the temperature of the influent to the treatment
facilities to exceed 40°C (104°F) unless the facilities can accommodate the
heat;
      (8)   Contain more than 100 milligrams per liter of non-biodegradable
oils of mineral or petroleum origin;
      (9)   Contain floatable oils, fat or grease;
      (10)   Contain a noxious, malodorous gas or substance which is present in
quantities that create a public nuisance or a hazard to life;
      (11)   Contain radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as such
quantities are defined by applicable state and federal regulations;
      (12)   Contain any garbage that has not been properly shredded; or
      (13)   Contain any of the following concentrations:
 
Ammonia nitrogen More than 25 mg/l
BOD              More than 250 mg/l
Phosphorus       More than 10 mg/l
SS               More than 250 mg/l
 
   (C)   Special agreements. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
preventing a special agreement or arrangement between the village and any user
of the wastewater facilities whereby wastewater otherwise prohibited by this
section is accepted into the system if the DPW Supervisor determines that the
wastewater facilities are capable of handling the discharges. Any like
agreement or arrangement shall contain provisions whereby the user shall pay a
surcharge, which surcharge shall be according to rates established by
resolution of the Village Council, and which shall compensate the village for
added treatment costs made necessary by the excess constituent discharged. A
continued violation of the terms of the agreement, after notice of the
violation as provided in §
50.03(D) of this code, shall be a violation of this section, punishable as
provided in §
50.99 below.
   (D)   Alternate limits. Where it appears to the DPW Supervisor that the
purposes of this section would be served by establishing alternate limits for
individual users of the village’s wastewater facilities, the DPW Supervisor may
approve mass limits of a stringency comparable to those limits established in
this section for purposes of providing a more practical means of discharge
monitoring or for recognizing the impact of water conservation on discharge
concentrations.
(Prior Code, § 50.08) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged to any village wastewater facilities
wastewaters containing substances in excess of the quantities prescribed in
applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards promulgated by the EPA;
provided however, that the DPW Supervisor may give prior written approval of a
grace period for compliance with any newly established pretreatment standards
which apply to existing users, which grace period shall not exceed 36 months,
if it is demonstrated to the DPW Supervisor that such a grace period is
reasonably necessary for the user to bring its discharges into compliance with
the standards.
(Prior Code, § 50.09) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.10 DETERMINATION OF WASTEWATER CHARACTERISTICS.
   (A)   Standards for measurements, tests and analyses. Measurements, tests
and analyses of the characteristics of wastewater to which reference is made in
this section shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the
American Public Health Association, or alternate methods approved by the DPW
Supervisor which comply with state and federal law. Sampling methods,
locations, times, durations and frequencies are to be determined on an
individual basis as set forth in this section. The discharger shall have the
option to use, at its own expense, more complete sampling methods, locations,
times, durations and frequencies than specified by the DPW Supervisor.
   (B)   Review of standards. Measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of wastewater required by this section shall be performed by a
qualified laboratory. When the analyses are required of a discharger, the
discharger may, in lieu of using the village’s laboratory, make arrangements
with any qualified laboratory, including that of the discharger, to perform the
analyses.
   (C)   Consideration of factors. In determining the discharge
characteristics, factors such as continuous or batch operation and seasonal
operation, as well as the information obtained from dischargers under the
provisions of this section, shall be considered by the DPW Supervisor. The DPW
Supervisor may obtain wastewater samples as required to verify the consistency
of discharge.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   DPW Supervisor’s authority. While the DPW Supervisor should initially
rely upon the federal categorical pretreatment standards, as set forth in §
50.09 of this code, if the DPW Supervisor determines that any wastewater
contains substances or possesses characteristics shown to have deleterious
effects upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or on the treated wastewater or wastewater sludge, or if any wastewater
constitutes a public nuisance or hazard, in addition to the other powers of the
DPW Supervisor set forth in this section, the DPW Supervisor may require of any
user discharging the wastes:
      (1)   Pretreatment of wastes to a condition acceptable for discharge to
the wastewater facilities;
      (2)   Payment to cover any added costs of handling and treating the
wastewater, which costs are not recovered from existing fees or charges;
      (3)   Development of and conformance to compliance schedules to meet any
applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (4)   Submission of reports necessary to assure compliance with
applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (5)   Regulation of the quantities and rates of wastewater discharge;
      (6)   Carrying out all inspection, surveillance and monitoring necessary
to determine compliance with applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (7)   Obtaining remedies for noncompliance by any user, including
injunctive relief or criminal penalties; or
      (8)   If scientific evidence discloses that discharge will create
unreasonable hazards or have unreasonable deleterious effects on the wastewater
facilities, including wastewater and sludge reuse practices, the DPW Supervisor
may reject the wastewater. Failure to comply with any requirements imposed by
the DPW Supervisor hereunder shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (B)   Damages to wastewater facilities. If the drainage or discharge from
any establishment causes a deposit, obstruction or damage to any of the
village’s wastewater facilities, including any type of contamination of sludge
intended for land application, the DPW Supervisor shall cause the deposit or
obstruction to be promptly removed or cause the damage to be promptly repaired
or remedied. The cost of the work, including materials, labor and supervision,
shall be paid by the person who introduced, or allowed to be introduced, the
drainage or discharge into the village’s wastewater facilities. The DPW
Supervisor may suspend or revoke any connection and use permit issued to a
person who fails to pay the costs.
(Prior Code, § 50.11) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12 USE BY PERSONS OUTSIDE OF VILLAGE.
   (A)   Unlawful discharge of wastewater. It shall be unlawful for any person,
being the owner, occupant or person in control of any building situated outside
the corporate limits of the village, to discharge, or to permit or cause the
discharge of, wastewater into the village’s wastewater facilities without
having first obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Indirect physical connection with wastewater facilities. The owner,
occupant or person in control of any premises outside the village shall be
considered as connected with the village’s wastewater facilities when any
building or structure thereon has a physical connection with a county drain or
public or private sewer by way of pipe, tile, tube or other conduit, whether or
not the sewage passes through a septic tank, cesspool or other similar device,
when the drain or sewer in turn conveys the sewage or effluent into the
village’s wastewater facilities.
   (C)   Evidence of discharge of sewage. The ownership, occupancy or control
of any building or structure thus having a physical connection with a county
drain, or a public or private sewer, which connects with and flows into the
village wastewater facilities shall be prima facie evidence of the discharge
of, or the permitting or causing the discharge of, sewage into the village’s
wastewater facilities.
   (D)   Stormwater connections. It shall be unlawful for any person, being the
owner, occupant or person in control of any storm sewer or drain situated
outside the corporate limits of the village, to discharge, or to permit or
cause the discharge of, stormwater into the village sewers.
   (E)   Records of discharges. It shall be the duty of the DPW Supervisor by
any lawful means to determine what persons owning, occupying or controlling
premises outside the village are discharging, or permitting or causing the
discharge of, wastewater into the village’s wastewater facilities. The DPW
Supervisor shall maintain records thereof, which records shall be kept as
current as possible.
(Prior Code, § 50.12) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Any premises discharging more than 250 gallons of wastewater per day
into the village’s sanitary sewer system shall be required to install a meter
to meter the amount of flow.
   (B)   Further, in the discretion of the DPW Supervisor, other premises as he
or she believes may be discharging in excess of 250 gallons of wastewater per
day into the village’s wastewater system may be required to install a meter.
(Prior Code, § 50.13) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.14 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Sewer Rules and
Regulations Ordinance” of the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.14) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993)
SEWER USE RATES
§ 50.25 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary for the public health,
safety and welfare of the village that the county wastewater disposal facility
(village) be operated by the village on a public utility rate basis, in
accordance with the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, being MCL 141.101 et
seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 50.25) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The charges levied to customers of the wastewater
system which are used to pay principal, interest and administrative costs of
retiring the debt incurred for construction of the system. The DEBT SERVICE
CHARGE shall be in addition to the user charge.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NORMAL STRENGTH. Sewage or wastes the concentration of which do not exceed a
BOD of 250 milligrams per liter, SS of 250 milligrams per liter, phosphorus of
ten milligrams per liter or fats, oils and grease of 100 milligrams; and which
have a pH between 6.5 and 9.5; and which do not contain a concentration of
other constituents which will interfere with the normal sewage treatment
process.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All costs, direct and indirect, inclusive of all
expenditures attributable to administration, replacement and treatment and
collection of sewage or wastes, necessary to ensure adequate treatment and
collection of sewage or wastes on a continuing basis in conformance with the
NPDES permit and other applicable regulations.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures and costs for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
system to maintain the capacity and performance for which the system was
designed and constructed.
   REVENUES and NET REVENUES. As defined in Public Act 94 of 1933, § 3, being
MCL 141.103.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The sum of the applicable user charge, surcharges and
debt service charges.
   THE SYSTEM. The complete county wastewater disposal facility (village
section), including all sewers, pumps, lift stations, flowage rights in
interceptors of other systems, treatment facilities or interests therein, and
all other facilities used or useful in the collection, treatment and disposal
of domestic, commercial or industrial wastes, including all appurtenances
thereto and including all extensions and improvements thereto which may
hereafter be acquired.
   USER. The recipients of services provided by the system, including premises
which are connected to and discharge sewage wastes into the system, and shall
consist of the following classes:
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Users whose premises:
         (a)   Are privately owned and used to perform and/or sell services
and/or products for profit (such as retail and wholesale stores, restaurants,
motels and gasoline stations); and
         (b)   Discharge primarily domestic sewage.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users whose premises:
         (a)   Are publicly owned facilities performing government functions
(such as government office buildings, post offices, libraries and schools); and
         (b)   Discharge only domestic sewage.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Users whose premises:
         (a)   Are privately owned and are used for manufacturing a product
from raw or purchased material; and
         (b)   Discharge wastewater used in any way in the manufacturing
process in addition to domestic sewage.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users whose premises:
         (a)   Are owned by a nonprofit organization pursuant to 26 U.S.C. §
501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (such as churches and
hospitals); and
         (b)   Discharge primarily domestic sewage.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. Users whose premises:
         (a)   Are domiciles for single- or multiple-family use; and
         (b)   Discharge only domestic sewage.
   USER CHARGE. A charge based on units levied on users of the system for the
user’s proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the system.
   USER SURCHARGE. A charge imposed on a user of the system who discharges
sewage or wastes in excess of normal strength.
(Prior Code, § 50.26) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.27 SUPERVISION.
   The operation, maintenance, alteration, repair and management of the system
shall be under the supervision and control of the County Drain Commission,
subject to the terms of the contract dated January 19, 1993, between the county
and the village. The Commission may employ the person or persons in a capacity
or capacities as it deems advisable to carry on the efficient management and
operation of the system and may make the rules, orders and regulations as it
deems advisable and necessary to assure the efficient management and operation
of the system, and the village shall set the rates and charges for the use of
the system unless otherwise provided pursuant to the contract.
(Prior Code, § 50.27) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.28 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Rates to be charged for service furnished by the system shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Sewer use charge. Sewer use charges to each single-family
residential unit shall be the current approved rate per month. Each premises
other than a single-family residence shall pay a monthly charge in the
foregoing amount multiplied by the single-family residential equivalent
appearing opposite that use as contained in the schedule of residential unit
equivalents incorporated in Appx. A (Sewage Usage Rates) of this chapter.
      (2)   Operation and maintenance charge.
         (a)   Village operation and maintenance charges to each single-family
residential unit shall be as set out in §
50.03(G)(1) of this code.
         (b)   Each premises other than a single-family residence shall pay a
monthly charge in the foregoing amount multiplied by the single-family
residential equivalent appearing opposite that use as contained in the schedule
of residential equivalents incorporated in Appx. A (Sewage Usage Rates) of this
chapter.
      (3)   Debt service charge. Debt service charges to each single-family
residential unit shall be as set out in §
50.03(G)(2) of this code. Each premises other than a single-family residence
shall pay a monthly charge in the foregoing amount multiplied by the single-
family residential equivalent appearing opposite that use as contained in the
schedule of residential equivalents incorporated in Appx. A (Sewage Usage
Rates) of this chapter.
      (4)   Special rates. For miscellaneous or special services for which a
special rate shall be established, the rates shall be fixed by the Village
Council.
      (5)   Billing. Bills will be rendered monthly, payable without penalty
within 30 days after the date thereon. Payments received after that period
shall bear a penalty of 10% of the amount of the bill.
      (6)   Enforcement. The charges for services which are under the
provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being MCL 141.121, as amended, made
a lien on all premises served thereby unless notice is given that a tenant is
responsible, are hereby recognized to constitute the lien, and whenever any
like charge against any piece of property shall be delinquent for six months,
the village official or officials in charge of the collection thereof shall
certify annually, on September 1 of each year, to the tax assessing officer of
the village the facts of the delinquency, whereupon the charge shall be by him
or her entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against the premises and
shall be collected in the same manner as general village taxes against the
premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced; provided, however, where
notice is given that a tenant is responsible for the charges and service, as
provided by that § 21, no further service shall be rendered the premises until
a cash deposit in an amount as set out in the fee schedule in Ch. 39 of this
code shall have been made as security for payment of the charges and service.
   (B)   (1)   Disconnection policy. It is the policy of the village to
discontinue utility service to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only
after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.
      (2)   Provisions. The village’s form for application for utility service
and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address, room number and
telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and
easily readable provisions to the effect that:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
         (c)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel, or by any other person of his or her choosing, and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the village
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
            1.   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing
procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified,
but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30
days.
            2.   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue
utility service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be
reinstated only after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with
a turn-on charge as set out in the fee schedule in Ch. 39 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.28) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.29 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm or
corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Prior Code, § 50.29) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.30 SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   All premises to which service of the system shall be available shall
connect to the system within 12 months following the first day of the calendar
month after publication of a notice by appropriate officials in charge of the
system indicating that the services are available.
   (B)   The service connection charge to each single-family residential unit
shall be in the amount provided for in the rate resolution.
   (C)   Each premises other than a single-family residence shall pay a
connection fee in the foregoing amount multiplied by the residential equivalent
units appearing opposite that use as contained in Appx. B (Sewage Hook-up
Rates) of this chapter.
   (D)   The service connection charge shall be reduced in an amount equal to
the principal sum of the special assessment for sanitary sewers imposed against
the subject’s property.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993; Ord. 22, passed 8-15-1994)
§ 50.31 SUFFICIENCY OF RATES.
   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for the
payment of the expenses of administration and operation, the expenses for
maintenance of the system as are necessary to preserve the same in good repair
and working order and to provide for other expenditures and funds for the
system as this subchapter may require. The rates shall be fixed and revised
from time to time as may be necessary to produce these amounts.
(Prior Code, § 50.31) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.32 FISCAL YEAR.
   The system shall be operated on the basis of a fiscal year corresponding
with that of the village.
(Prior Code, § 50.32) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.33 DEPOSITORY ACCOUNTS.
   The revenues of the system shall be set aside as collected and deposited in
a separate depository account in The State Bank, Grass Lake, Michigan, a bank
duly qualified to do business in the state, in an account to be designated
Sewage Disposal System Receiving Fund (hereinafter, for brevity, referred to as
the “Receiving Fund”), and the revenues so deposited shall be transferred from
the Receiving Fund periodically in the manner and at the times hereinafter
specified.
   (A)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. Out of the revenues in the Receiving
Fund there shall be first set aside quarterly into a depository account
designated the Operation and Maintenance Fund a sum sufficient to provide for
the payment of the next quarter’s current expenses of administration and
operation of the system and the current expenses for the maintenance thereof as
may be necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order.
   (B)   Contract Payment Fund. There shall next be established and maintained
a depository account to be designated the Contract Payment Fund, which shall be
used solely for the payment of the villages’s obligations to the county
pursuant to the aforesaid contract. There shall be deposited in the Fund
quarterly, after requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund have been
met, such sums as shall be necessary to pay the contractual obligations when
due. Should the revenues of the system prove insufficient for this purpose, the
revenues may be supplemented by any other funds of the village legally
available for that purpose.
   (C)   Replacement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained a
depository account designated the Replacement Fund, which shall be used solely
for the purpose of making major repairs and replacements to the system if
needed. There shall be set aside into the Fund, after provision has been made
for the Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Contract Payment Fund, revenues
as the Village Council shall deem necessary for this purpose.
   (D)   Improvement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained an
Improvement Fund for the purpose of making improvements, extensions and
enlargements to the system. There shall be deposited into the Fund, after
providing for the foregoing funds, revenues as the Village Council shall
determine.
   (E)   Surplus monies. Monies remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end of
any operating year after full satisfaction of the requirements of the foregoing
funds may, at the option of the Village Council, be transferred to the
Improvement Fund if used in connection with any other project of the village
reasonably related to purposes of the system.
   (F)   Bank accounts. All monies belonging to any of the foregoing funds or
accounts may be kept in one bank account, in which event, the monies shall be
allocated on the books and records of the village within this single bank
account in the manner above set forth.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.34 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   In the event the monies in the Receiving Fund are insufficient to provide
for the current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, any monies
and/or securities in other funds of the system, except sums in the Contract
Payment Fund derived from special assessments or tax levies, shall be
transferred to the Operation and Maintenance Fund to the extent of any deficit
therein.
(Prior Code, § 50.34) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.35 INVESTMENTS.
   Monies in any fund or account established by the provisions of this
subchapter may be invested in obligations of the United States of America in
the manner and subject to the limitations provided in Public Act 94 of 1933,
being MCL 141.101 et seq., as amended. In the event the investments are made,
the securities representing the same shall be kept on deposit with the bank or
trust company having on deposit the fund or funds from which the purchase was
made. Income received from the investments shall be credited to the fund from
which the investments were made.
(Prior Code, § 50.35) (Ord. 22, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 50.36 SEWER GRINDER PUMP REPLACEMENT FEE.
   (A)   The village shall, from time to time, establish by resolution of the
Village Council and impose on one or more users the following fees:
      (1)   A miscellaneous user fee, as necessary, for miscellaneous service,
repairs and related administrative costs associated with the system and
incurred, without limitation, as a result of the intentional or negligent acts
of such user or users, including, for example, excessive inspection services
not covered by inspection fees, costs of repairing and/or replacing a damaged
service connection and costs incurred by the village to shut off and turn on
sewer service; and
      (2)   A grinder pump replacement fee, as necessary to fund the cost of
replacing grinder pump systems. The Village Council may provide an option for
the grinder pump replacement fee that allows a user to finance the cost of the
fee with interest over a period of five years.
   (B)   The village will replace a (less than 15 years old from date of
installation) grinder pump at no cost to the customer, provided that the
customer did not cause the failure.
   (C)   Installment plan: first year at 20% pump price, plus 100% parts and
labor.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2021)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The village has the following enforcement provisions and penalty
provisions for §§
50.01 to
50.14 of this code.
      (1)   Inspectors. The duly authorized officials or employees of the
village, agents of the DNR and County Health Department, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing,
in accordance with the provisions of §§
50.01 to
50.14 of this code, at any time during reasonable or usual business hours. No
person shall refuse or obstruct entry.
      (2)   Notice to cease violation. Any person violating any provision of §§
50.01 to
50.14 of this code shall be notified in writing by the Village Manager of the
nature of the violation and allowed a reasonable time to correct the violation.
Any officer, agent or employee guilty of aiding or abetting the violation or,
being responsible therefor, refusing or neglecting to take corrective action
shall be guilty as a principal.
      (3)   Civil liability. Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 to
50.14 of this code shall be liable to the village for any expense, loss or
damage incurred by the village by reason of the violation, and recovery
therefor may be had in an appropriate action in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (4)   Abatement in equity. Any continued violation, after due notice as
provided herein, shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated by suit in
equity by the village in any court of competent jurisdiction. This remedy shall
be in addition to any other available remedy.
      (5)   Criminal liability. Any person who violates any provision of §§
50.01 to
50.14 of this code shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. 21, passed 10-19-1993)
APPENDIX A: SEWAGE USAGE RATES
   Unit equivalents based upon single-family residence as one unit.
Use* Residential Equivalent Units
Use*                                  Residential Equivalent Units
Apartment                             1.00 per building
   One bedroom                     0.50
   Two or more bedrooms            1.00
Arena                                 1.00 per 7 employees
Auto body shop                        1.00 per 7 employees
Auto dealership without carwash       1.00 per 7 employees
Auto detail shop                      1.00 per 7 employees
Bakery without seating                1.00 per 7 employees
   With seating                    Plus 0.07 per seat
Bank                                  1.00 per 7 employees
Barber shop                           1.00 per 7 employees
Beauty shop                           1.00 per 7 employees
Boat and marine supply                1.00 per 7 employees
Bowling alley                         0.25 per lane
   With bar and restaurant         1.00, plus 0.07 per seat
Car wash production                   5.00
Car wash self-serve                   1.00 first stall, plus 0.75 each
                                      additional stall
Church without kitchen                1.00
   With kitchen                    1.50
Convalescent home                     1.50, plus 0.50 per bed
Country club                          2.00 minimum
   With bar and/or restaurant      Plus 1.00 per 25-person seating cap
   With showers                    Plus 2.00 for showers
Doctor or dentist office              1.00 per doctor
Drug store                            1.00 per each 7 employees
   With fountain                   0.07 per seat
Dry cleaner with pressure cleaning on 2.00
premises
Duplex                                1.00 per unit
Factory without industrial waste      1.00 per each 7 employees
   With industrial waste           To be determined
Feed store                            1.00 per each 7 employees
Fire hall                             2.00
Fraternal organization                1.00, plus 0.07 per seat
   With bar                        Plus 1.00, and 0.07 per seat
Funeral home                          1.00
   With residence                  1.00 per residence
Furniture repair                      1.00 per each 7 employees
Gas station                           1.00 per each 7 employees
   With dump station               2.00
   With dump station, free to dump No charge
Golf course                           2.00
   With bar and/or restaurant      Plus 1.00 per 25 seats
Greenhouse and florist                1.50
Hardware                              1.00 per each 7 employees
Insurance office                      1.00 per each 7 employees
Laundromat                            1.00, plus 0.25 per washer
Lawnmower sales                       1.00 per each 7 employees
Library                               1.00 per each 7 employees
Lumber yard                           1.00 per each 7 employees
Meat market/processing without        1.50
slaughtering
   With slaughtering               2.00
Medical walk-in                       1.50
Mobile home                           1.00
Motel                                 1.00
   Without kitchenette             Plus 0.25 each
   With kitchenette                Plus 0.50 each
Music store                           1.00 per each 7 employees
Newspaper publishing and printing     1.00 per each 7 employees
Nursery and shrubs                    1.00 per each 7 employees
Office building                       1.00 per each business
   Each business                   1.00 per each 7 employees
Package liquor store                  1.00 per each 7 employees
Party store                           1.00 per each 7 employees
Post office                           1.00 per each 7 employees
Public utility
   Without maintenance             1.00 per each 7 employees
   With maintenance                Plus 1.00 each additional unit
Real estate office                    1.00 per each 7 employees
Rental hall                           2.00
Residence                             1.00
   With apartment                  1.00
Restaurant**                          1.00, plus 0.07 per seat
   Drive-up window                 0.50
   With bar                        2.00, plus 0.07 per seat
Retail or wholesale sales             1.00 per each 7 employees
School                                1.00 per classroom
Shoe repair                           1.00 per each 7 employees
Sporting goods store                  1.00 per each 7 employees
Supermarket                           1.00 per each 7 employees
Swimming club without food service    1.00 per each 7 employees
   With recirculating water        2.00
Tanning salon without showers         1.00 per each 7 employees
   With showers                    Plus 2.00
Tavern or bar                         1.00, plus 0.07 per seat
Theater                               2.00, plus 0.25 per seat
TV and appliance repair               1.00 per each 7 employees
Veterinarian                          1.00 per each 7 employees, plus 1.00 each
                                      additional unit
Village/township hall                 1.00 per each 7 employees
Warehouse                             1.00 per each 7 employees
Watch repair and jewelry              1.00 per each 7 employees
Welding shop                          1.00 per each 7 employees
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Any unlisted uses will be determined on a case-by-case basis by the village’s
consulting engineer.
** To calculate REU for a restaurant with 120 seats (1.00 plus 0.07 per seat):
1 REU for restaurant
120 seats × 0.07 = 8.4
Total to be charged would be 9.4 × your monthly fee per REU
This is to be used for treatment and operations.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 50, Appx. A)
APPENDIX B: SEWAGE HOOK-UP RATES
   Unit equivalents based upon single-family residence as one unit.
Use* Residential Equivalent Units
Use*                                  Residential Equivalent Units
Apartment                             1.00
   One bedroom                     0.50
   Two or more bedrooms            1.00
Auto body shop                        1.00
Auto dealer                           1.00
Bank                                  1.00
Barber shop                           1.00
Beauty shop                           1.00
Boat and marine supply                1.00
Bowling alley                         0.15 per lane
   With bar                        0.15 per lane, plus 0.04 per seat
   With restaurant                 0.15 per lane, plus 0.07 per seat
   With restaurant and bar         1.15 per lane, plus 0.11 per seat
Car wash/detail shop                  2.00
Car wash (production line)            5.00
Car wash self-serve                   1.00 first unit, plus 0.25 each
                                      additional unit
Churches without kitchen              Z1.00
   With kitchen                    1.50
Confectionery and fountain            1.50
Convalescent home                     1.00, plus 0.25 per bed
Country club with restaurant          2.00, plus 1.00 for each 50-person
                                      seating capacity in restaurant
Doctor or dentist office              1.00 per doctor
Drug store                             
   Without fountain                1.00
   With fountain                   1.50
Dry cleaner                           1.00
   Presser and cleaning on premise 2.00
Duplex                                1 each unit
Factory                               1.00 for each 15 employees
Fire hall                             1.00
Fraternal organization                1.00, members only, including VFW and
                                      similar organizations
Funeral home                          1.00
Furniture repair                      1.00
Gas station without car wash          1.00
Gas station with dump station         3.00, but no charge if dump station is
                                      provided free of charge to public
                                      2.00; if includes restaurant and/or bar,
Golf course with bar                  additional units found in those
                                      categories
Greenhouse and florist                1.50
Hardware                              1.00
Horse stable and riding academy       1.00
Insurance office                      1.00
Laundromat                            0.25 each washer
Lawnmower sales                       1.00
Library                               1.00
License bureau                        1.00
Lumber yard                           1.00
Meat market and/or food locker and/or 1.50
processing without slaughtering
   With slaughtering               2.00
Mobile home                           1.00
Motel                                 1.00, plus 0.10 per unit without
                                      kitchenette and 0.25 with kitchenette
Music store                           1.00
Newspaper publishing and printing     1.00
Nursery and shrubs                    1.00
Office building                       1.00 for each 15 employees or tenants
Package liquor store                  1.00
Party store                           1.00
Post office                           1.00
Public utility (office only)          1.00
Public utility with maintenance       2.00
Real estate office                    1.00
Rental hall                           2.00
Residence                             1.00
   With apartment                  1.50
Restaurants                           0.07 per seat
   With bar                        0.11 per seat
Retail or wholesale sales             1.00
School                                1.00 per classroom
Shoe repair                           1.00
Sporting goods store                  1.00
Supermarket                            
   Without meat and/or vegetable   1.00
preparation
   With meat and/or vegetable      3.00
preparation
Swim club without food service        2.00
recirculating water
Tavern or bar (lunch/grill only)      0.04 per seat
Theater                               2.00
Township hall                         1.00
Travel trailer park                   0.50 per sewage hookup
TV repair and appliance               1.00
Warehouse                             1.00
Watch repair and jewelry              1.00
Veterinarian                          1.00
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Any unlisted uses will be determined on a case-by-case basis by the
village’s consulting engineer.
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 50, Appx. B)
CHAPTER 51: WATER CHARGE COLLECTION
Section
   
51.01   Billing and payment; water service
   
51.02   Enforcement; lien
   
51.03   Tenant responsibility
§ 51.01 BILLING AND PAYMENT; WATER SERVICE.
   Charges for all water service shall be billed and collected monthly or
quarterly, as directed by the Village Council, by the Village Treasurer, which
bills shall be payable and may be paid without penalty up to and including the
fourth Friday of the same month rendered, and shall thereafter be subject to a
10% penalty.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 16, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 51.02 ENFORCEMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   The Village Council is hereby authorized to enforce the payment of
charges for water service to any premises by discontinuing the water service to
the premises or by bringing an action of assumpsit against the customer, or
both. The village shall follow §
50.28(B) of this code for discontinuance of service.
   (B)   The charges for water service are made a lien on the premises to which
furnished and are hereby recognized to constitute the lien and any charges
delinquent for six months or more, and shall be certified on or before the
following June 1 by the Village Treasurer to the Township Tax Roll Department,
which shall place the same on the next tax roll against the premises to which
services shall have been rendered, and those charges shall be collected and the
lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided for the collection of
taxes assessed upon the roll and the enforcement of the lien thereof.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 16, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 51.03 TENANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   In cases where the village is properly notified by affidavit that a
tenant under the provision of a lease is liable for water charges, then no such
charge shall become a lien against the premises from and after the date of the
notice.
   (B)   The affidavit shall be filed with the Village Treasurer, and 20 days’
notice shall be given by the lessor of any cancellation, change in or
termination of the lease. The Village Council may require that no water service
be commenced or continued to the rented premises until there has been deposited
with the Village Treasurer a sum sufficient to cover three times the average
estimated, or actual, if known, quarterly bill for the premises.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 16, passed 2-15-1994)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   Adoption by reference
   
52.02   Inspections
   
52.03   Right to enter
   
52.04   Discontinuance of water service
   
52.05   Protection of water
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The village adopts by reference the water supply cross-connection rules of
the state’s Department of Public Health, R 325.11401 to 325.11407 of the
state’s Administrative Code.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 18, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 52.02 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Council to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections
with the public water supply are deemed possible. The frequency of inspections
and reinspections, based on potential health hazards involved, shall be as
established by the Village Council and as approved by the State Department of
Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 18, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 52.03 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   The representative of the Village Council shall have the right to enter at
any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof for cross-connections. On request, the owners, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on the property.
The refusal of that information, or refusal of access when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 18, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   The Village Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this chapter exists, and to take other precautionary
measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of the contamination of the
public water supply system. Water service to that property shall not be
restored until the cross- connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 18, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 52.05 PROTECTION OF WATER.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination, as
specified by this chapter and by the state and village plumbing codes. Any
water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is
not supplied by the potable system must be labeled, in a conspicuous manner, as
“Water Unsafe for Drinking.”
(Prior Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 18, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.99) (Ord. 18, passed 2-15-1994)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GOLF CART REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GOLF CART REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Purpose
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Operation of golf carts on village streets
   
70.04   Parking regulations
   
70.05   Registration and registration hanging decals
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are intended to secure, protect and preserve the public
peace, health, safety and welfare of the residents and property owners of the
village.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2021)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECAL. The registration hanging decal displayed on every registered golf
cart within the village, which shall be obtained by completing and submitting
the proper registration form to the Village Clerk.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. An operator’s license or permit issued to an individual by
the Secretary of State of this state under the state’s Vehicle Code, Public Act
300 of 1949, Ch. 3, being MCL 257.301 et seq., as amended, for that individual
to operate a vehicle, whether or not conditions are attached to the license or
permit.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed for transportation while playing the game of
golf. Off-road vehicles such as gators, ATVs, dune buggies or like vehicles are
not considered GOLF CARTS.
   OPERATE. To be in actual physical control of a golf cart, whether licensed
or not.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of a golf
cart, whether licensed or not.
   REGISTRATION. The approval process through which every person intending to
operate a golf cart on roads, streets or public rights-of-way in the village
must follow.
   SUNSET and SUNRISE. That time as determined by the National Weather Service
on any given day.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Grass Lake, Jackson County, Michigan.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2021)
§ 70.03 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on village streets, subject to the
following restrictions.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on any street unless he or she
is at least 16 years old and licensed to operate a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with the signal requirements
of MCL 257.648, as amended, that apply to the operation of a vehicle.
   (C)   All golf carts are required to have a triangle reflector on the rear
of the golf cart that shall be visible from all distances up to 500 feet.
   (D)   The operator of a golf cart shall obey all sections pertaining to
traffic in the state’s Vehicle Code and the Uniform Traffic Code.
   (E)   A person operating a golf cart may operate only on the far right
maintained portion of the street.
   (F)   No golf carts shall be operated in the village at any time on the
state or federal highways, except to cross highways where crosswalks have been
designated or by using the most direct line of crossing.
   (G)   A golf cart shall not be operated on a public sidewalk constructed for
the use of pedestrians.
   (H)   The maximum speed at which the golf cart may operate is 15 mph.
   (I)   Golf carts may not be operated during the time period from one-half
hour before sunset to one- half hour after sunrise.
   (J)   Golf carts shall not be operated on a road or street in a negligent,
careless or reckless manner so as to endanger any person or property, or to
obstruct, hinder or impede the lawful course of travel of any motor vehicle or
the lawful use by any pedestrian of public streets, sidewalks, paths, trails,
walkways or parks.
   (K)   The Village Council, in its discretion, shall have adopted and put in
effect a resolution allowing the operation of golf carts on the streets of the
village pursuant to MCL 257.657a(1).
(Ord. passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The parking, stopping and standing regulations provided in the village’s
codes applied to motor vehicles shall also apply to golf carts within the
village.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2021)
§ 70.05 REGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION HANGING DECALS.
   (A)   (1)   No golf cart may be operated on the village streets unless that
golf cart is first registered with the village. Golf cart owners operating
within the village shall register each golf cart on a biyearly basis by making
application to the Village Office.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall issue a registration hanging decal (size
eight and one-half inches by six inches) to an applicant upon the completion of
an application and payment of the registration decal fee as set in the fee
schedule in Ch. 39 of this code. The Village Clerk may refuse to issue a
registration decal if the applicant or the applicant’s golf cart is in
violation of this chapter, any portion of this code, the state’s Vehicle Code
or the Uniform Traffic Code.
      (3)   A list of registered golf carts shall be maintained by the Village
Clerk.
   (B)   The golf cart owner shall affix the registration hanging decal issued
by the village to the driver’s side rear of the golf cart. The registration
decal will be valid for a period of two years. Registration decals are not
transferrable.
   (C)   Any person who operates an unregistered golf cart on a village street
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The village may revoke the registration decal issued for any golf cart
involved in two or more municipal civil infractions under this chapter, this
code, the state’s Vehicle Code or the Uniform Traffic Code.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   GENERAL NUISANCES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES
      
94.   OUTDOOR HEATERS
      
95.   GRAFFITI
      
96.   MARIHUANA CAREGIVERS
      
97.   ANTI-NOISE AND PUBLIC NUISANCE
      
98.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Keeping certain animals; animals at large
   
90.02   Noise
   
90.03   Streets and sidewalks
   
90.04   Vicious animals
   
90.05   Cruel treatment
   
90.06   Violations
   
90.07   Seizure; impoundment
   
90.08   Defecation
Keeping of Domesticated Chickens
   
90.20   Standards for keeping domesticated chickens
   
90.21   Enclosures
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS; ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person shall keep or house any animals or domestic fowl within the
village limits, except dogs, cats, rabbits, canaries or small animals commonly
classified as “pets” which are customarily kept or housed inside dwellings as
household pets.
   (B)   No person owning, possessing or having charge of any dog, pet or other
animal shall permit that dog, pet or other animal to be at large in the village
beyond the premises owned by that person, or in the event he or she takes the
dog off the premises, it will be on a leash, under the reasonable care of some
person ten years of age or older.
   (C)   Division (A) shall not apply to the keeping of chickens in compliance
with all requirements of §
90.20 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 2-15-1994; Ord. passed 2-7-2012) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.02 NOISE.
   No person owning, possessing or having charge of any dog, pet or other
animal shall permit that animal to make loud, frequent or habitual barking,
yelping, howling, screaming or other annoying sounds.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person owning, possessing or having charge of any cattle, mule, sheep,
swine, goat or other hoofed animal shall ride, drive or allow that animal to go
upon any sidewalk or street within the village limits, except horses, which are
permitted on village streets under reasonable control.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person owning, possessing or having charge of any vicious animal
shall permit that animal to be unconfined unless securely muzzled and led by a
leash.
   (B)   Any animal shall be deemed to be vicious which has bitten a person or
other animal without molestation or provocation or which, by its actions, gives
indication that it is liable to bite any person or animal without molestation
or provocation.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CRUEL TREATMENT.
   No person owning, possessing or having charge of any dog, pet or other
animal shall cruelly treat, abuse or fail to provide adequate food or water for
the dog, pet or other animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any of the acts enumerated in the foregoing sections
shall be liable to have the dog, pet or other animal seized and impounded by
any village or county law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 SEIZURE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any animal seized or impounded under this chapter shall be taken to the
County Animal Shelter, where the animal shall be kept until recovered by that
person or disposed of according to established County Animal Shelter rules and
procedures.
(Prior Code, § 90.07)
§ 90.08 DEFECATION.
   A person who owns or has custody or control of an animal shall prevent the
animal from defecating on any public or private property other than his or her
own or shall immediately collect and properly dispose of all fecal matter
deposited by the animal while it is not on his or her property.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2014) Penalty, see §
90.99
KEEPING OF DOMESTICATED CHICKENS
§ 90.20 STANDARDS FOR KEEPING DOMESTICATED CHICKENS.
   (A)   Domesticated chickens.
      (1)   The keeping of chickens in the village supports a local,
sustainable food system by providing an affordable, nutritious source of
protein through fresh eggs.
      (2)   The keeping of chickens also provides free, quality, nitrogen-rich
fertilizer, chemical-free pest control and animal companionship.
      (3)   (a)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards for
the keeping of domesticated chickens. It is intended to enable residents to
keep a small number of female chickens on a noncommercial basis while limiting
the potential adverse impacts on the surrounding neighborhood.
         (b)   The village recognizes that adverse neighborhood impacts may
result from the keeping of domesticated chickens as a result of noise, odor,
unsanitary animal living conditions, unsanitary waste storage and removal, the
attraction of predators, rodents, insects or parasites and non-confined animals
leaving the owner’s property.
         (c)   This subchapter is intended to create licensing standards and
requirements that ensure that domesticated chickens do not adversely impact the
neighborhood surrounding the property on which the chickens are kept.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHICKEN PEN. A wire enclosure connected to a henhouse for the purpose of
allowing chickens to leave the henhouse while remaining in an enclosed,
predator-safe environment.
      HENHOUSE. A structure for the sheltering of female chickens. An existing
shed or garage can be used for this purpose if it meets the standards contained
in this subchapter.
   (C)   Permit required. An annual permit is required for the keeping of any
domesticated chickens in the village.
   (D)   Fee. The fee for an annual permit to keep chickens is as set out in
the fee schedule in Ch. 39 of this code.
   (E)   Number and type of chickens allowed.
      (1)   The maximum number of chickens allowed is four per lot.
      (2)   Only female chickens are allowed.
      (3)   There is no restriction on chicken species.
(Prior Code, § 90.11) (Ord. passed 2-7-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Chickens must be kept in an enclosure or fenced area at all times.
         (a)   During daylight hours, chickens may be allowed outside of their
chicken pens in a securely fenced yard if supervised.
         (b)   Chickens shall be secured within the henhouse during non-
daylight hours.
      (2)   Enclosures must be:
         (a)   Clean, dry and odor-free;
         (b)   Kept in a neat and sanitary condition at all times; and
         (c)   Kept in manner that will not disturb the use or enjoyment of
neighboring lots due to noise, odor or other adverse impact.
      (3)   The henhouse and chicken pen must:
         (a)   Provide adequate ventilation and adequate sun and shade; and
         (b)   Be impermeable to rodents, wild birds and predators, including
dogs and cats.
   (B)   Henhouses.
      (1)   A henhouse shall be provided, which shall be designed to provide
safe and healthy living conditions for the chickens while minimizing adverse
impacts to other residents in the neighborhood.
      (2)   The structure shall be enclosed on all sides, and shall have a roof
and doors.
         (a)   Access doors must be able to be shut and locked at night.
         (b)   Opening windows and vents must be covered with predator- and
bird-proof wire of less than one-inch openings.
      (3)   The henhouse shall be well maintained.
      (4)   The henhouse shall not be placed in the front yard.
   (C)   Chicken pens.
      (1)   An enclosed chicken pen must be provided consisting of sturdy wire
fencing.
      (2)   The pen must be covered with wire, aviary netting or solid roofing.
   (D)   Odor and noise impacts.
      (1)   Odors from chickens, chicken manure or other chicken-related
substances shall not be perceptible at the property boundaries.
      (2)   Perceptible noise from chickens shall not be loud enough at the
property boundaries to disturb persons of reasonable sensitivity.
   (E)   Lighting. Only motion-activated lighting may be used to light the
exterior of the henhouse.
   (F)   Predators, rodents, insects and parasites. The property owner shall
take necessary action to reduce the attraction of predators and rodents and the
potential infestation of insects and parasites.
   (G)   Feed and water. Chickens must be provided with access to feed and
clean water at all times; such feed and water shall be unavailable to rodents
and predators.
   (H)   Waste storage and removal.
      (1)   Provision must be made for the storage and removal of chicken
manure.
         (a)   All stored manure shall be covered by a fully enclosed structure
with a roof or lid over the entire structure.
         (b)   All other manure not used for composting or fertilizing shall be
removed.
      (2)   In addition, the henhouse, chicken pen and surrounding area must be
kept free from trash and accumulated droppings.
      (3)   Uneaten feed shall be removed in a timely manner.
   (I)   Application for permit.
      (1)   Every applicant for a permit to keep domesticated chickens shall:
         (a)   Complete and file an application on a form prescribed by the
Code Enforcement Officer; and
         (b)   Deposit the prescribed permit fee with the Village Office at the
time the application is filed.
      (2)   Any material misstatement of omission shall be grounds for denial,
suspension or revocation of the permit.
   (J)   Approval of permit. The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a permit
if the applicant has demonstrated compliance with the criteria and standards in
this subchapter and has completed certification for chicken keeping.
   (K)   Denial, suspension or revocation of permit.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall deny a permit if the applicant
has not demonstrated compliance with all the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   A permit to keep domesticated chickens may be suspended or revoked
by the Code Enforcement Officer where there is a risk to public health or
safety or for any violation of, or failure to comply with, any of the
provisions of this subchapter, or with the provisions of any other applicable
ordinance or law.
      (3)   Any denial, revocation or suspension of a permit shall be in
writing and shall include notification of the right to and procedure for
appeal.
   (L)   Appeal. A person appealing the issuance, denial, suspension or
revocation of a permit by the Code Enforcement Officer may appeal to the Zoning
Board of Appeals within 30 days of notification.
   (M)   Removal of chickens.
      (1)   In addition to the penalty set forth in §
90.99 of this code, any violation of the provisions of this subchapter or of
the permit shall be grounds for an order from the Code Enforcement Officer to
remove the chickens and the chicken-related structures.
      (2)   If a chicken dies, it must be disposed of promptly in a sanitary
manner.
(Prior Code, § 90.12) (Ord. passed 2-7-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. passed 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 91: GENERAL NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definition
   
91.03   Application of chapter
   
91.04   Exemptions
   
91.05   Presence of weeds and excessive growth
   
91.06   Duty of owner or occupant
   
91.07   Abatement by village
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The village hereby finds that tall grass, weeds and other vegetation can
have a blighting effect on neighborhoods and can provide a refuge for vermin
and insects. The purpose of this chapter is to secure the public health, safety
and general welfare of the residents and property owners of the village by
regulating the height at which grass, weeds and other nonexempt vegetation is
allowed to grow in certain areas of the village.
(Ord. 91.101, passed 6-4-2019)
§ 91.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Includes, but shall not be limited to, Canada thistle
(Circium arvense), dodders (any species of Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black
mustard and Indian mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot
(Daucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), perennial sowthistle (Sonchus
arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa incana), ragweed (Ambrosia elatior L.) and
poison ivy (Rhus toxicodendron), poison sumac (Toxicodendron vernix) or other
plant which, in the opinion of the Village Council and taking into account the
provisions of the Noxious Weeds Act, Public Act 359 of 1941, being MCL 247.61
et seq., as amended, is regarded and recognized as a common nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 36, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 91.03 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply to all occupied and buildable lands in the village
which are in commercial, industrial or residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 36, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 91.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Flower gardens, plots of shrubbery, vegetable gardens, small grain
plots and agricultural lands are exempt from the provisions of this chapter. An
exemption under the terms of this section cannot be claimed unless the lands in
question have been cultivated and cared for in a manner appropriate to the
exemption categories.
   (B)   Also exempt from the provisions of this chapter are lands located in
the village which are classified by federal, state or local law, regulation or
resolution as wetlands.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. 36, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 91.05 PRESENCE OF WEEDS AND EXCESSIVE GROWTH.
   (A)   (1)   No person occupying any premises, and no person owning any
unoccupied premises, within an established neighborhood shall permit or
maintain on any such premises any growth of weeds, grass or other rank
vegetation to a greater height of eight inches or any accumulation of dead
weeds, grass or brush. The same eight-inch height requirement shall be
maintained for the right-of-way and the first ten feet of all vacant or
undeveloped properties.
      (2)   However, under no circumstance shall an occupant or owner cause,
suffer or allow poison ivy, ragweed or other noxious plants, or plants
detrimental to health, to grow on any premises in such a manner that any part
of such ivy, ragweed or other noxious or harmful weed shall extend upon,
overhang or border any public place, or allow seeds, pollen or other particles
or emanations therefrom to be carried through the air into any public place.
   (B)   The presence of weeds and/or vegetation upon the land is deemed to be
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare of the village, and the
same is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)
(Ord. 36, passed 12-20-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner or the occupant of every
premises covered by this chapter to cut and remove, or to destroy by lawful
means, all weeds and vegetation described in §§
91.02 to
91.05 of this code as often as may be necessary to comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   The cutting, removing or destroying of weeds and vegetation, if
done at least once every three weeks between May 15 and September 15 of each
year, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The duties set forth herein shall apply to lands which are in the
public right-of-way unless the duties described in this chapter are
specifically imposed by law on the State Highway Commissioner or the County
Road Commission.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 36, passed 12-20-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   If the provisions of §§
91.05 and
91.06 of this code are not complied with, the Village Manager, or the duly
authorized representative (such as the Code Enforcement Officer) shall notify
the occupant or owner of the premises to comply with the provisions of such
sections within a time to be specified in such notice. Such notice shall
require compliance with §§
91.05 and
91.06 within ten calendar days after service of such initial notice. All
subsequent violation notices within the same calendar year will result in
posting on the premises of a 24-hour notice for compliance to the occupant or
owner.
   (B)   (1)   If such notices are not complied with within the specified time
limit, the village shall cause such weeds, grass and other vegetation to be
removed or destroyed, and the actual cost of such cutting, removal or
destruction, plus an administration fee of 15% of the actual costs incurred,
shall be charged to the property owner. Said persons shall be given written
notification by regular, first-class mail of the fines and costs assessed.
      (2)   If said persons fail to pay the village said fines and costs within
30 days of the mailing of the notification, said fines and costs will be a
special assessment against the property, as authorized by the Village Treasurer
and as provided by law. Levying or collection of such special assessment shall
not relieve any person offending against this chapter from the penalty
prescribed for violation of this chapter.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 36, passed 12-20-2005)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Notices
Private Roads
   
92.15   Intent
   
92.16   Definitions
   
92.17   Design standards
   
92.18   Application for permit; requirements
   
92.19   Permit approval process
   
92.20   Inspection
   
92.21   Expiration of approval of permits
   
92.22   Recording of easements and certificate of completion
   
92.23   Certificates of occupancy
   
92.24   Variances
   
92.25   Street name and number preservation
Sidewalks, Curbs and Gutters
   
92.40   Requirements and permits
   
92.41   Specifications
   
92.42   Construction
   
92.43   Procedure by village
   
92.44   Builders
   
92.45   Costs
   
92.46   Sidewalk maintenance
   
92.47   Trimming of trees adjacent to sidewalk
   
92.48   Safe pedestrian walkways
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals on streets and/or sidewalks, see §
90.03
   Grass and weed nuisances and the like, see
Ch. 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NOTICES.
   (A)   Notice regarding sidewalk repairs, sewer or water connections,
dangerous structures, abating nuisances or any other act the expense of which
is performed by the village, and may be assessed against the premises under the
provisions of this code, shall be served, unless specifically directed by
another section of this chapter:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the owner personally or by leaving the
same at his or her residence, office or place of business with some person of
suitability and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing the notice by certified or registered mail to the owner
at his or her last known address; or
      (3)   If the owner is unknown, by posting the notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises for five days.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal or tear
down any official notice or placard posted by any village officer unless
permission is given by the officer to remove the notice.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 15, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
PRIVATE ROADS
§ 92.15 INTENT.
   (A)   Unobstructed, safe and continuous access to lots is necessary to
promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare and ensure that
police, fire and emergency services can safely and quickly enter and exit
private property at all times.
   (B)   The procedures, standards and specifications hereinafter set forth are
determined to be the minimum necessary to meet the intention of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994)
§ 92.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY ROAD COMMISSION. The Road Commission of Jackson County, Michigan.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   LOT. A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use and coverage and area and to provide yards and other open
spaces as herein required. The LOT may consist of a single lot of record, a
portion of a lot of record, a combination of contiguous lots of record, or
contiguous portions of lots of record, or a parcel of land described by metes
and bounds, with means of access in accordance with this subchapter and the
Village Zoning Ordinance.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Village of Grass Lake.
   PUBLIC STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY. A public or dedicated right-of-way which
affords the principal means of vehicular access to abutting property and which
is under public ownership or control.
   VILLAGE CLERK. The Clerk of the Village of Grass Lake.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Council of the Village of Grass Lake.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The Engineer of the Village of Grass Lake.
(Prior Code, § 92.16) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994; Ord. 26, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 92.17 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following table of minimum requirements and specifications for
private roads shall apply.
Minimum Requirements and Specifications for Private Streets and Roads
 Class A Class B
Minimum Requirements and Specifications for Private Streets and Roads
                           Class A                   Class B
Base
                           Where permitted by
                           variance of the township,
                           6 inches of crushed
   Gravel surface       limestone, slag or        Same as Class A, except 16
                           processed road gravel     feet wide
                           (MDOT 22A or 23A) in two
                           equal courses, each
                           compacted 22 feet wide
                           6 inches of crushed
                           limestone, slag or        Not applicable unless
   Paved surface        processed road gravel     paving is requested by
                           (MDOT 22A) in two equal   applicant
                           courses, each compacted
                           28 feet wide
                           2.5 inches bituminous
   Pavement             aggregate                 Not applicable
                           #1100 mix, 22 feet wide
Curb and gutter
                           Where required, curb and
May be required by         gutter shall meet
Township Engineer in       requirements of the
consideration of narrow    current MDOT              Same as Class A
lot, width and road grade  specifications for
                           straight-back or roll
                           curb
Ditches
                                                     Ditches shall be of
                                                     sufficient width, depth
   Minimum grade        0.5%                      and grades to provide for
                                                     adequate and positive
                                                     drainage
   Grades of 0.5% to 4.0Shall be sodded or        Same as Class A
                           otherwise stabilized
   Grades of 4.1% and   Shall be stabilized with  Same as Class A
steeper                    rip-rap
   Grades of front/back Shall not exceed 1-on-4   Same as Class A
slopes
Easement width             66 feet                   66 feet
Roadway curves
   Horizontal minimum   230-foot radius           Same as Class A
                           100 feet long for changes
   Vertical minimum     in                        Same as Class A
                           gradient of 2% or more
Roadway grades
   Maximum              5.5%                      Same as Class A
   Minimum              0.5%                      Same as Class A
                           Depth will vary depending
                           upon native soil types;
Sub-base                   spread to a minimum width Same as Class A
                           sufficient to extend to
                           the front slope of the
                           roadside ditch
Turnaround areas
                           60-foot radius easement,
   Cul-de-sac           46-foot radius roadway    Same as Class A
                           surface
                           May be substituted for
                           cul-de-sac if
   T Type               applicant can show that   Same as Class A
                           it will function
                           as well as the required
                           turning circle
 
   (B)   In addition to the standards and specifications set forth in division
(A) above, all private roads shall meet the following additional minimum
requirements and specifications.
      (1)   The roadway surface and cul-de-sac area shall be centered in the
right-of-way.
      (2)   The connection between the private road and the public road shall
conform to the standards and specifications of the County Road Commission.
Where a gravel base private road connects to a paved village or county road,
the private road shall have a paved approach.
      (3)   Underground crossroad drainage shall be provided where the proposed
road crosses a stream or other drainage course. Necessary culverts and erosion
treatments shall be provided in accordance with the specifications of the
County Road Commission and/or County Drain Commissioner.
      (4)   The private road easement and road shall be adequately drained so
as to prevent flooding or erosion of the roadway. Ditches shall be located
within the private road easement. Road drainage shall be constructed so that
the runoff water shall be conveyed to existing watercourses or water bodies.
Drainage shall not be discharged upon the land of another property owner unless
the water is following an established watercourse or drainage pattern. The
discharged water onto adjoining properties shall also not exceed the normal
agricultural rate. Connection to county drains shall be approved by the County
Drain Commissioner prior to the issuance of permit.
      (5)   Private road signs shall be erected and maintained in accordance
with the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices. All private roads
shall be named and provided with street name signs at all intersections with
other public or private roads.
      (6)   The road easement shall provide for ingress, egress, drainage and
installation and for maintenance of public and private utilities.
      (7)   The private road shall be subject to all other village, county and
state permits and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 92.19) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994)
§ 92.18 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each application for a private road shall be accompanied by completed
plans, prepared and sealed by a civil engineer or land surveyor registered in
the state, which include the information contained herein. Where the required
information is incorporated in the overall site plan of a development, separate
road plans shall not be required.
   (B)   The application and plans for a private road shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The names and addresses of the lot or parcel owners to be served by
the private road;
      (2)   A vicinity map, of a minimum scale of one inch equals 2,000 feet,
showing the location of the private road in the village, any access roads and
cross streets, road names, a scale and a north arrow;
      (3)   The location of the parcels being served or intended to be served
by the private road, including any existing residential dwellings or accessory
buildings;
      (4)   Any connection to existing public and private roads;
      (5)   The location of the proposed road and turnaround within the
easement, together with proposed drainage and grading. Proposed improvements
shall be shown in sufficient detail to demonstrate that the standards set forth
in §
92.17 of this code are met;
      (6)   Existing storm drains, ditches and swales crossing the road
easement or adjacent to the easement; and
      (7)   A complete statement of all the terms and conditions of the
proposed road easement, including copies of all maintenance agreements or
intended maintenance agreements regarding the maintenance and improvements of
the right-of-way and roadway.
(Prior Code, § 92.18) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994; Ord. 26, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 92.19 PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the Village Clerk shall bring the
application before the Village Council at its next regular meeting. The Council
shall refer the application to the Village Planning Commission for site plan
review, if necessary, and to any other appropriate body for review and comment.
   (B)   The Village Engineer shall report in writing to the Council as to
whether or not the proposed private road conforms to the standards and
specifications of this subchapter. The report may include any suggested
conditions to be attached to the permit which, in the Village Engineer’s
judgement, are necessary to achieve the intent of this subchapter.
   (C)   The Village Council shall consider the application, the Village
Engineer’s report and all other relevant information in determining whether to
grant the permit application. If the information submitted by the applicant
does not establish that the proposed private road will conform to the standards
and specifications of this subchapter, the Village Council shall not grant the
permit. The Village Council shall impose those conditions on the approval of
the permit as it deems necessary to achieve the intent and objectives of this
subchapter, which may include, but need not be limited to, conditions suggested
by the Village Engineer. The breach of any such condition proposed by the
Village Council shall automatically invalidate the permit.
   (D)   As a condition to the granting of any permit under this subchapter,
the Village Council shall require that the applicant deposit with the Village
Clerk a sum of money, bank letter of credit or certified check in an amount
sufficient to guarantee that the applicant shall perform the terms and
conditions of the permit, including the payment of required fees. The amount of
the required deposit will be based in part on a recommendation from the Village
Engineer of projected costs to complete the approved project. Upon completion
of all improvements required by this subchapter, any unused portion of the
deposit shall be refunded to the applicant.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the required deposit and predetermined fees and
approval of the application by the Village Council, the Village Zoning
Administrator shall issue the permit pursuant to the terms established by the
Village Council approving the application.
   (F)   Only the Village Council shall have the authority to approve or deny
applications for permits. No other permit issued by any other village official
or other governmental body or official shall substitute for a permit.
   (G)   As a condition to the granting of a permit under this subchapter, the
Council may require a staked survey by the Village Engineer at the owner’s
expense.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994; Ord. 26, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 92.20 INSPECTION.
   (A)   All required improvements shall be inspected by the village at various
stages of construction. The applicant’s engineer shall certify to the Village
Engineer before the final inspection that the required improvements were made
in accordance with this subchapter and all approved plans. The Village Engineer
shall make a final inspection upon completion of construction and shall report
the results of the final inspection to the Village Council in writing.
   (B)   The costs of inspection, including compensation of the Village
Engineer, shall be paid by the applicant prior to the issuance of the
certificate of completion. The Village Council shall establish and determine
the costs of inspection. If the applicant does not directly pay the costs of
inspection, the same shall be paid from the deposit established by the Village
Council and held by the Village Clerk, and the balance, if any, shall be
returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994)
§ 92.21 EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL OF PERMITS.
   A permit shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance,
or a longer period as determined by the Village Council. If the required
improvements have not been completed upon the expiration of one year, or the
longer period of time, then the permit shall be void and of no force and
effect, and all deposits shall be forfeited to the village.
(Prior Code, § 92.22) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994)
§ 92.22 RECORDING OF EASEMENTS AND CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION.
   (A)   The easement, including all agreements, shall be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds for the county prior to the issuance of the
certificate of completion.
   (B)   Upon receipt of proof that the private road easement and all
agreements have been recorded and the Village Engineer’s report that all
private construction complies with the standards of this subchapter, the
village shall issue a certificate of completion.
(Prior Code, § 92.23) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994; Ord. 26, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 92.23 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any building on a lot
subject to the provisions of this subchapter until all work is completed.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy may be issued prior to the issuance of a
certificate of completion upon recommendation by the Village Engineer, and upon
deposit with the Village Clerk of a sum of money, certified check or bank
letter of credit in an amount sufficient to guarantee completion of the
remaining public road improvements.
(Prior Code, § 92.24) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994)
§ 92.24 VARIANCES.
   (A)   When there are practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of this subchapter, any applicant may
apply for a variance in writing to the Village Council stating the specific
reasons why the variance is being requested. The Village Council shall have the
power to vary or modify the application of the provisions of this subchapter so
that the intent and purpose of the subchapter shall be observed and the public
safety secured.
   (B)   The Village Council may consider an application to waive the paving
requirements for a private road if one or more of the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   The proposed private road connects to an unpaved county primary or
local road or another unpaved private road;
      (2)   The proposed private road will receive only limited use at the time
of application or in the future; and/or
      (3)   Paving will significantly increase stormwater runoff, creating a
potential for flooding and/or soil erosion or otherwise causing an adverse
environmental impact due to the topographical and physical characteristics of
the parcel.
   (C)   The Village Council may attach reasonable conditions in granting any
variance from any provision of this subchapter, and the breach of any
conditions or the failure of any application to comply with the conditions
shall void the variance. The provisions of this subchapter are intended, in
part, to enable variances to be granted, and conditions attached to the
variances to facilitate the upgrading of prior nonconforming rights-of-way and
private roads to the standards of this subchapter, in a reasonably practical
manner, including, but not limited to, the rights-of-way as have been
established, recorded, constructed or maintained prior to the date of adoption
of this subchapter which cannot be brought into conformity with this subchapter
without unnecessary hardship and practical difficulty due to soil conditions,
topographical considerations or other factors.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994; Ord. 26, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 92.25 STREET NAME AND NUMBER PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The village deems it important to protect the historical
street names and numbering within the village in order to protect and
perpetuate the history of the community and to avoid burdening the residents
and businesses within the village with the cost of address changes, which
changes could have a potentially devastating economic impact on the residents
and businesses with the village.
   (B)   Prohibition on changing street names and numbering. No street names or
numbers within the village shall be altered or changed without the prior
approval of the Village Council.
Penalty, see §
92.99
SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS
§ 92.40 REQUIREMENTS AND PERMITS.
   No person or entity shall construct, rebuild or repair any sidewalk, curb or
gutter, except by employing an experienced builder or contractor who shall
perform the construction in accordance with the line, grade, slope and
specifications established by the Village Engineer. The builder or contractor
shall not construct, rebuild or repair any sidewalk without first obtaining a
written permit pursuant to the requirements of the Building Code then in
effect, except for with repairs of less than 50 square feet of sidewalk, no
permit will be required.
(Prior Code, § 92.35) (Ord. passed 10-3-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.41 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be constructed or repaired in
conformity with the specifications, and amendments thereto, by the Village
Engineer and approved by the Village Council.
   (B)   The specifications will be placed on file with the Clerk of the
village.
   (C)   All walks shall be constructed of portland cement construction.
(Prior Code, § 92.36) (Ord. passed 10-3-2000)
§ 92.42 CONSTRUCTION.
   Whenever the Village Council shall deem the construction of a new sidewalk,
curb or gutter, or the reconstruction or repair of an existing sidewalk, curb
or gutter, a necessary improvement, the Council shall so declare by resolution,
describing the property in front of or adjacent to which the construction is
ordered by lots, blocks or parcels of land. After adoption of the resolution,
it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to cause notice thereof to be given
to each property owner affected, listing the approximate cost of the property
owner’s share.
(Prior Code, § 92.37) (Ord. passed 10-3-2000)
§ 92.43 PROCEDURE BY VILLAGE.
   After approved, the Village Engineer shall obtain sealed bids, and upon
receipt of the bids, the Village Council shall award the contract to one of the
bidders, who shall thereupon be authorized and required to cause the sidewalks,
curbs or gutters to be constructed, reconstructed or repaired.
(Prior Code, § 92.38) (Ord. passed 10-3-2000)
§ 92.44 BUILDERS.
   (A)   No sidewalk, curb or gutter shall be constructed, reconstructed or
repaired in the village except by a qualified, experienced builder or
contractor approved by the Village Council.
   (B)   To be considered qualified, the builder or contractor shall submit,
unless waived by the Council, a written report which shall contain:
      (1)   Full name and address of person or business;
      (2)   Qualifications;
      (3)   Financial resume; and
      (4)   Two references from reputable citizens vouching for the applicant’s
character and qualifications.
   (C)   The Council shall thereafter approve or disapprove the builder or
contractor.
   (D)   The Village Engineer may cause work to be stopped and/or suspended for
incompetence or failure to comply with this subchapter. At the next regular
meeting of the Village Council, the contractor may appear and be heard. The
Village Council, at the hearing, may revoke the stop-work order of the Village
Engineer and permit the completion of the construction as was contracted out to
the contractor.
(Prior Code, § 92.39) (Ord. passed 10-3-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.45 COSTS.
   (A)   The expense of construction, reconstruction or repairing of any
sidewalk, curb or gutter shall be defrayed by the village and the property
owner abutting the construction on the following basis:
      (1)   Village: 50%; and
      (2)   Property owner: 50%.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Council shall pay directly to the contractor, in the
case of construction ordered, the entire cost of the construction. The property
owner shall thereafter be billed the share of the cost allocated to the
property by the Village Council.
      (2)   If any special assessment is not paid in full within 90 days from
the billing date, interest will be assessed, and the Village Clerk shall
certify the charge to the Village Assessor, who shall spread the same on the
tax roll of the village as a special assessment. When it shall be expedient,
however, the Council may collect the expense in an action of debt or assumpsit
against the owner before any court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   If the Village Clerk shall be unable to collect any amounts so
assessed, the Clerk shall return all the unpaid assessments to the Treasurer of
the county in the same manner and with like effects as other returns to the
County Treasurer. The returned assessments shall be collected by the County
Treasurer under the provisions of the general tax laws of the state, together
with interest and charges thereon.
(Prior Code, § 92.40) (Ord. passed 10-3-2000)
§ 92.46 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Generally. The occupant of every lot or premises adjoining any street,
or the owner of the lot or premises, if the same is not occupied, shall clear
all ice and snow from sidewalks adjoining the lot or premises, and shall sweep
or clean the sidewalks as often as may be reasonably necessary to keep the
sidewalks clear of dirt, refuse, rubbish or waste papers, and shall properly
dispose of the same so as not to litter any street or alley.
   (B)   Noncompliance. The penalty for failure to comply shall be set forth
under §
92.99 of this code.
   (C)   Maintenance requirements.
      (1)   Snow and ice.
         (a)   Within 24 hours after the end of each accumulation of snow
greater than one inch, the owner or occupant of every property shall remove the
accumulation from the adjacent public sidewalk. The accumulation may be from
any source, including precipitation and drifting. Immediately after the
accumulation of ice on the sidewalk, it shall be treated with sand, salt or
other substance to prevent it from being slippery, and the ice shall be removed
within 24 hours after accumulation.
         (b)   All public land shall have snow and ice removed as if it were
privately owned. The removal of snow and ice shall mean free of snow and ice
for the entire constructed width and length of the sidewalk.
      (2)   Dirt refuse and rubbish. The owner or occupant of any property
adjacent to a public sidewalk shall sweep or clean sidewalks as often as may be
reasonably necessary to keep the sidewalks clear of dirt, refuse, rubbish or
waste papers and shall properly dispose of same so as not to litter any street
or alley.
      (3)   Removal by village. If snow or ice is not removed or treated as
required by division (C)(1) above, as determined by members of the Maintenance
Department or an appropriate person designated by the village, the village may
notify the owner or occupant of the violation of division (C)(1) above. This
notification will be made by registered mail from the office of the Clerk. If
the owner or occupant fails to remove snow or ice within 24 hours of the
notification of violation of division (C)(1) above, the village may cause the
snow or ice to be removed. The owner (as indicated by the records of the
Assessor) of the adjacent property shall then be charged the actual cost of the
sidewalk clearance, plus an administrative fee as set out in the fee schedule
in Ch. 39 of this code. If that charge is not paid within 45 days, it may be
assessed against the parcel under Ch. 32 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 92.41) (Ord. passed 10-3-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 TRIMMING OF TREES ADJACENT TO SIDEWALK.
   (A)   All ornamental fruit or shade trees now growing or hereafter placed or
set out near any sidewalk in the village shall, within 30 days after the
passage of this subchapter, be so trimmed by the owner or occupant of the
premises next adjacent thereto. Property owners shall see that none of the
boughs or branches of the trees shall extend or hang down nearer to or within
the distance of ten feet from the level of the surface of the sidewalk, and
thereafter, it shall be the duty of the owner or occupant to keep the trees
trimmed in the manner aforesaid.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant shall refuse to trim the trees, the Village
Council reserves the right to authorize the DPW maintenance employees to trim
the trees in aforesaid manner, with any cost incurred to be paid by the owner
or occupant.
(Prior Code, § 92.42) (Ord. passed 10-3-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.48 SAFE PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS.
   (A)   Establishment. The Village Council, upon determination of need, may
establish a special assessment district for the raising of funds for the
construction and/or repair of essential pedestrian walkways that it deems
necessary. Such special assessment districts shall be established in such a
manner as to include all properties that are determined to benefit from the
construction and/or repair of the pedestrian walkways.
   (B)   Liability for removal or damage. Any person who removes or damages a
portion of a public pedestrian walkway will be liable for all costs of repair
or replacement.
   (C)   Placement of obstacles. It shall be unlawful for any person to place
upon the surface of any path or sidewalk within the village any wire, rope,
hose, cable or any other substance or material of a nature likely to cause
injury to pedestrians or to in any other way render a public pedestrian walkway
unsafe. Additionally, it shall be the responsibility of the property (owner) to
ensure that all sidewalks are maintained to their full width (that is, clear of
grass and other vegetation/debris), and that abutting/overhanging vegetation is
cleared to a height of not less than ten feet above the sidewalk and not less
than the full width of the sidewalk. Violation of either or both of these
provisions shall result in immediate notification by the Code Enforcement
Officer and, if not corrected within ten days, may be subject to a fine
inclusive of the costs to rectify the issue. However, nothing in this section
shall be construed to prohibit the proper authorities from using any usual or
proper means of improving such paths or sidewalks.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. 15, passed 2-15-1994; Ord. 26, passed 3-1-1994;
Ord. passed 10-3-2000)
CHAPTER 93: STORAGE OF MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Storage
   
93.02   Permit
   
93.03   Outdoor storage nuisance
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Arrests
   
93.06   Civil proceedings
   
93.07   Remedies cumulative
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 STORAGE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or store any dismantled,
partially dismantled or inoperable motor vehicle, or parts thereof, on any
premises in the village for a period of more than 30 days continuously, and no
person, firm or corporation shall permit any dismantled, partially dismantled
or inoperable motor vehicle, or parts thereof, to remain on any premises in the
village for a period of more than 30 days continuously.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicles stored in a duly established automobile wrecking
establishment that has and is complying with all of the ordinances of the
village and the statutes of the state, nor shall this chapter have any
application to the storage of dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable
motor vehicles by a duly established garage or automobile dealership for a
period of less than six months.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 10, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation owning a dismantled, partially
dismantled or inoperable motor vehicle who is repairing such, or who is about
to have the motor vehicle repaired, may apply for a permit at the Village
Clerk’s office to permit the motor vehicle to remain on the premises for a
period of an additional 30 days.
   (B)   A fee, as set out in the fee schedule in Ch. 39 of this code, for each
permit issued shall be collected by the village and paid into the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 10, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 OUTDOOR STORAGE NUISANCE.
   The presence of any dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable motor
vehicle, or parts thereof, outdoors on any premises in the village is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and is hereby further declared to be offensive
to the public health, welfare and safety.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 10, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISMANTLED AND PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles from
which some part or parts which are ordinarily a component of the motor vehicle
have been removed or are missing, or any automobile which has not been licensed
for more than a year, shall be considered an inoperable motor vehicle.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles which, by reason of dismantling,
disrepair or other causes, are incapable of being propelled under their own
power.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any wheeled vehicles which are self-propelled or intended to
be self- propelled.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 10, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 93.05 ARRESTS.
   The Village Council, by its duly constituted police officers, may cause
complaint to be made for the violation of the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.05) (Ord. 10, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 93.06 CIVIL PROCEEDINGS.
   In addition, the Village Council, by its duly constituted officers, or any
person owning real estate in the village may institute appropriate court
proceedings to enjoin, abate and remove any such nuisance per se or to prevent
the continued violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) (Ord. 10, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 93.07 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies and penalties provided herein are cumulative and in addition to
other remedies provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) (Ord. 10, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 10, passed 2-15-1994)
CHAPTER 94: OUTDOOR HEATERS
Section
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Purpose
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Installation and use
   
94.05   Permits
   
94.06   Right of entry and inspection
   
94.07   Outdoor wood-fired hydronic heaters installed prior to effective date
of chapter
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the village’s “Outdoor Wood-Fired Hydronic
Heater Ordinance (Wood Burners).”
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 40, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the village by requiring that all permitted outdoor furnaces
and outdoor furnace systems are properly located, installed and maintained
consistent with this chapter and the manufacturer’s instructions.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 40, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN NATURAL WOOD. Natural wood which:
      (1)   Has not been pressure treated, painted, varnished or coated with a
similar material;
      (2)   Does not contain resins or glues, such as plywood or other
composite wood products; and
      (3)   Is not particle board, refuse or yard waste.
   NUISANCE. Includes, but is not limited to, the burning of any material of
any kind which generates smoke or odor from an outdoor wood-fired hydronic
heater in a manner so as to endanger the public, in a manner which constitutes
a threat to the safety or health of the public or in a manner which
unreasonably disturbs the comfort or repose of any person residing in the
vicinity.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED HYDRONIC HEATER. Any equipment, device, appliance or
apparatus, or any part thereof, which is installed, affixed or situated
outdoors for the primary purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or
energy used as a component of a heating system providing heat for any interior
space or water source.
   REFUSE and YARD WASTE. Any waste material, including, but not limited to,
leaves, grass, garbage and other, similar, organic material; construction and
demolition waste material; automobiles or parts thereof; flammable (excluding
clean natural wood), toxic or explosive material; electrical wiring, rubber
products and plastic products.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 40, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 94.04 INSTALLATION AND USE.
   An outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater may be installed and used in the
village only in accordance with all of the following provisions.
   (A)   An outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater shall use, as a fuel source,
only clean natural wood; provided, however, that other fuel sources recommended
by the manufacturer of the heater may be utilized if the same are not
specifically prohibited by this chapter.
   (B)   Neither refuse nor yard waste shall be used as a fuel source. Further,
no material shall be used as a fuel source that causes any particulate matter
which is detrimental to human beings or animals to be released into the
atmosphere.
   (C)   No outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater shall be utilized in a manner
which endangers the public, which threatens the safety or health of the public
or which constitutes a nuisance, as that term is defined in this chapter or as
the same may be otherwise defined in law.
   (D)   An outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater shall be installed and used only
on property which is zoned as OS-1 (Open Space) or R-1 (Residential) parcels
which meet a minimum lot size requirement of two acres.
   (E)   Outdoor wood-fired hydronic heaters shall be located at least 300 feet
from the nearest residence which is not located on the same property as is the
outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater.
   (F)   An outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater shall be located to the rear or
to the side of the structure for which it is intended to act as a heat source.
   (G)   An outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater shall be located at least 40
feet from the nearest structure on the same property, 100 feet from any
structure on an adjoining property and 50 feet from any property line.
   (H)   An outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater shall have an attached permanent
chimney that extends at least as high above the ground surface as the height of
the roofs of all residences which are located within 200 feet of the outdoor
wood-fired hydronic heater and which are not on the same property.
   (I)   An outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater shall be UL listed and have
attached an approved U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) label. The
label shall indicate the model being installed, including the test results from
an independent accredited laboratory demonstrating that the unit meets the EPA
2007 (Phase 1) voluntary testing program for emissions levels or applicable
regulatory standard for outdoor wood-fired hydronic heaters (OWHH).
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 40, passed 11-2-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 PERMITS.
   The owner or occupant of the property shall obtain all required permits,
including, but not limited to, electrical and mechanical permits, for each
outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater prior to installation, and any required
inspections shall be completed and approved prior to use of the outdoor wood-
fired hydronic heater.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 40, passed 11-2-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   Any authorized officer, agent, employee or representative of the village who
presents his or her credentials may inspect any property for the purpose of
ascertaining compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 40, passed 11-2-2010)
§ 94.07 OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED HYDRONIC HEATERS INSTALLED PRIOR TO EFFECTIVE DATE
OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The lawful use of a nonconforming outdoor wood-fired hydronic heater
existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of this chapter may be
continued although the heater does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a nonconforming outdoor wood-fired
hydronic heater shall not be used or operated in a manner so as to constitute a
public nuisance or so as to cause a condition which is hazardous to human
health or is prohibited by any applicable federal, state or local statutes,
ordinances or regulations. Additionally, the nonconforming outdoor wood-fired
hydronic heater shall be used and maintained in compliance with all the
provisions of this chapter to the maximum extent to which compliance is
reasonably possible.
   (C)   Outdoor wood-fired hydronic heaters which are relocated shall be
considered “newly installed units” and shall be subject to all of the
provisions and requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 40, passed 11-2-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 40, passed 11-2-2010)
CHAPTER 95: GRAFFITI
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Prohibition
   
95.04   Possession of graffiti implements by person under 18 years of age
   
95.05   Parent responsibility
   
95.06   Removal by perpetrator
   
95.07   Notice of removal to property owner
   
95.08   Removal by property owner
   
95.09   Failure of property owner to remove graffiti
   
95.10   Costs of removal of graffiti
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent the spread of graffiti as defined
herein, to limit possession by minors of spray paint and other implements used
for graffiti and to provide for removal of graffiti. The Village Council hereby
determines graffiti to be a public nuisance due to its detrimental effect on
buildings, other real or personal property and the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER. Any aerosol container which is adapted or made for
the purpose of applying paint or other similar substances capable of marking or
defacing property.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, etched, sprayed, drawn, painted or engraved on any
village-owned or private real or personal property within the village by or
using any graffiti implement.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, society, corporation, partnership
or group, including their officers and employees, who, alone or with any
others, possess:
      (1)   A freehold or lessor estate in, or a land contract vendee’s
interest in, any real property, with or without accompanying actual possession
thereof; or
      (2)   Charge, care or control of any real or personal property, either as
agent, employee, representative, executor, administrator, trustee or guardian.
   PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated
minor.
   REMOVAL. The act or process of removing graffiti.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.03 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall apply graffiti to any structure, trees or private property,
including, but not limited to, buildings, walls, fences, pools, vehicles or
signs, on any public or private property within the village.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS BY PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 shall have in his or her possession any
graffiti implement while on any public or private property, including any
public or private school.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the possession of graffiti implements
by minors attending, or traveling to or from, a school at which the minor is
enrolled if the minor is participating in a class at said school which requires
the possession of said implements or to any minor who is required to possess
graffiti implements in the course of lawful employment or other lawful uses,
with written proof from an employer or parent, and provided said graffiti
implements are not used or intended to be used for purposes of applying
graffiti contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 PARENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   A parent having custody of a minor who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be liable for all costs or expenses incurred by the village, any
citizen, business or organization in connection with the removal of graffiti
placed by said minor.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.06 REMOVAL BY PERPETRATOR.
   Any person applying graffiti shall remove said graffiti. A parent having
custody of a minor shall also be responsible for such removal. Failure to
remove, provide for removal or pay for removal shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter. Any removal of graffiti by a perpetrator shall be
done only with the express consent of the owner of the property to which
graffiti has been applied.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 NOTICE OF REMOVAL TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   Whenever the village determines that graffiti on any structure is
visible from the street or other public or private property, the Village
Manager, or his or her designee, may serve notice to remove said graffiti upon
the property owner via first-class mail.
   (B)   The notice shall give the owner of the property 30 days from the date
of mailing of the notice of abatement to remove the graffiti. The notice shall
be addressed to the owner of the property, as shown on the latest tax
assessment roll, at the owner’s last address. In the case of obscene graffiti,
the notice shall give the owner of the property 14 days from the date of the
mailing of the notice of abatement to remove the graffiti.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.08 REMOVAL BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   If the perpetrator of graffiti is not apprehended or fails to remove the
graffiti, the owner of the property which has been the recipient of graffiti
shall be held responsible to remove said graffiti after the village has served
a notice pursuant to §
95.07 of this code. Any owner removing graffiti pursuant to this chapter shall
be entitled to restitution from the perpetrator, in an amount to be determined
by the court, for the cost of removing the graffiti. Restitution is to be paid
by the person found responsible for such graffiti.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.09 FAILURE OF PROPERTY OWNER TO REMOVE GRAFFITI.
   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner of property to remove the
graffiti within 30 days, or 14 days in the case of obscene graffiti, upon
receipt of the notice provided in §
95.07 of this code, the village, or its authorized representatives, is hereby
authorized to enter upon such property for the purposes of abating the nuisance
by removal or elimination of such graffiti by the village.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.10 COSTS OF REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Whenever the village or its authorized representatives enter upon
property in order to abate a graffiti nuisance, the village is authorized and
directed to keep an accurate account of all expenses incurred and issue a
certificate certifying the reasonable cost involved for the work to remove the
graffiti.
   (B)   Within ten days after the receipt of the certificate, the Village
Treasurer shall forward a statement of the total charges, and the charges shall
be payable within 30 days from the date the statement is mailed. The statement
shall be filed with the Village Assessor and shall thereupon be assessed
against the property, and may be enforced as delinquent village property taxes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 96: MARIHUANA CAREGIVERS
Section
   
96.01   Purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Prohibition of unlawful marihuana activities
   
96.04   Primary caregiver assisting other qualifying patients; permit required;
exception
   
96.05   Primary caregiver operation regulations
   
96.06   Generally applicable marihuana regulations
   
96.07   Enforcement
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate marihuana activities under the
Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Michigan Initiated Law 1 of 2008, MCL 333.26421
et seq.; to require a permit for registered primary caregivers assisting other
qualifying patients; to regulate nuisances and other impacts by marihuana
activities within the village as nuisances per se; to promote the general
health, safety and welfare of the community and to repeal any ordinance or
parts of ordinances or resolutions in conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2021)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used within this chapter shall be construed to have the same
meaning as provided in the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Michigan Initiated
Law 1 of 2008, being MCL 333.26421 et seq. (hereinafter “MMMA”), the Medical
Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, Public Act 281 of 2016, being MCL 333.27101
et seq. (“MMFLA”) and the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act,
Michigan Initiated Law 1 of 2018, being MCL 333.27951 et seq. (“MRTMA”), except
where otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PREMISES. An individual, legally described and delineated parcel.
      PRIMARY CAREGIVER OPERATION. The cultivation, storage and/or transfer of
marihuana by a medical marihuana primary caregiver in accordance with the MMMA
and village ordinances.
      REASONABLY AVAILABLE ODOR CONTROL TECHNOLOGY or RAOCT. An odor control
technology that limits odor from a particular source or source category within
the limits of village ordinances by the application of control technology that
is reasonably available considering technological and economic feasibility.
RAOCT is determined on a case-by-case basis for an individual source or source
category, taking into account the impact of the source upon air quality, the
availability of additional controls, the emission reduction to be achieved by
additional controls, the impact of additional controls on air quality and the
capital and operating costs of the additional controls.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2021)
§ 96.03 PROHIBITION OF UNLAWFUL MARIHUANA ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The acquisition, possession, cultivation, use, delivery, distribution,
processing or transfer of marihuana to treat or alleviate a debilitating
medical condition is prohibited, except in compliance with the MMMA and local
ordinances.
   (B)   This chapter does not prohibit the acquisition, possession,
cultivation, use, delivery or transfer of marihuana by individuals over the age
of 21 pursuant to the MRTMA.
   (C)   This chapter shall not be construed to permit commercial marihuana
establishments or facilities to operate within the village unless authorized by
another village ordinance.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 PRIMARY CAREGIVER ASSISTING OTHER QUALIFYING PATIENTS; PERMIT REQUIRED;
EXCEPTION.
   (A)   To ensure the health, safety and welfare of the community, ensure
compliance with the MMMA and ensure compliance with this chapter, a primary
caregiver operation is required to acquire a permit from the village by
submitting an application with the required information below, with any
required application fee, before operating a primary caregiver operation within
the village.
   (B)   An applicant that desires to operate a primary caregiver operation
must obtain a permit from the village by submitting a written application
containing all of the information below. The Village Clerk or his or her
designee may create an application form for such permits, and if created, an
applicant must submit the permit application using that form. The Village
Council may establish by resolution a required application fee under this
chapter. The application fee is as set out in the fee schedule in Ch. 39 of
this code.
   (C)   The permit application shall include:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, phone number and email address;
      (2)   The address of the premises where marihuana will be acquired,
possessed, cultivated, processed, used or transferred; if the applicant does
not own the premises where marihuana will be acquired, possessed, processed,
used or transferred, he or she must provide written documentation outlining
that such activities are permitted on the premises or indicating some ownership
interest (such as a lease);
      (3)   A copy of the current state registration card issued to the primary
caregiver; and
      (4)   A full description of the nature and types of equipment which will
be used in marihuana cultivation and processing.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2021)
§ 96.05 PRIMARY CAREGIVER OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   All primary caregiver operations are subject to the following specific
regulations to ensure compliance with state and local laws and to promote the
health, safety and general welfare of village residents and visitors.
   (A)   There shall be not more than one primary caregiver operation per
premises.
   (B)   All lighting shall be subject to the following general operating
standards.
      (1)   All lighting shall be directed away from, and be shielded from,
adjacent properties and shall be so arranged as to not adversely affect
adjacent properties or driver visibility on adjacent public roads.
      (2)   All lighting shall be shielded to the extent possible to reduce
glare and visibility.
      (3)   Grow lights shall not be used before 6:00 a.m. local time and shall
not be used after 9:00 p.m. local time where they are visible from any adjacent
properties or rights-of-way.
   (C)   The operation and design shall minimize any impact to adjacent uses,
including the control of any odor by maintaining and operating an air scrubbing
and carbon filtration system so that no odor is detectable at the property line
of the premises, unless the Village Council or its designated representative
approves a reasonably available odor control technology for a specific
premises.
   (D)   No signs or advertisements related to a primary caregiver operation
shall be permitted on the exterior of any structure on the premises.
   (E)   (1)   To ensure compliance with all applicable requirements and laws,
the portion of any building or structure where a primary caregiver assisting
other patients acquires, possesses, cultivates, processes, transfers or uses
marihuana is subject to inspection and approval by a village representative,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Code Enforcement Officer;
         (b)   Law enforcement official serving the village; or
         (c)   Building official.
      (2)   Moreover, any premises and all enclosed, locked facilities on a
premises with a primary caregiver operation shall be available for inspection
upon reasonable request by a building official, Code Enforcement Officer, law
enforcement official or the Village President.
   (F)   Marihuana cultivation, processing, use and transfer shall be
maintained in compliance with the requirements of village ordinances, materials
submitted with a permit application and the MMMA. Any departure shall be
grounds to revoke a permit at a hearing in front of the Village Council and for
the village to take other lawful actions to abate such nuisance. If a permit is
revoked, an applicant shall not engage in a primary caregiver operation for a
period of one year after the revocation and until the applicant obtains a new
permit under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 GENERALLY APPLICABLE MARIHUANA REGULATIONS.
   The regulations below shall apply to any individual or entity within the
village that uses, possesses, grows, transports or conducts activities with
marihuana, including primary caregiver operations, in order to ensure
compliance with state and local laws and to promote the health, safety and
general welfare of village residents and visitors.
   (A)   Marihuana grown on any premises for personal use must comply with the
applicable provisions of the MMMA or MRTMA unless authorized as a licensed
primary caregiver operation or operating consistent with state or local law.
   (B)   The acquisition, possession, cultivation, use, delivery, distribution,
processing, sale or transfer of marihuana within the village shall not create a
public nuisance which unreasonably disturbs or annoys the quiet, comfort or
repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities in the vicinity. No
person shall commit, create or maintain such public nuisance, including by
reason of noise, vibration, traffic, parking, glare, fumes, odor, unsanitary or
unsightly conditions, fire hazard, light pollution, toxic chemicals or other
public nuisance conditions that would offend a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities.
   (C)   Any person or entity with marihuana on a premises shall control any
odor from his or her premises by regularly maintaining and operating an air
scrubbing and carbon filtration system so that no odor from the acquisition,
possession, cultivation, processing, transfer, sale or use of marihuana is
detectable at the property line of the premises unless the Village Council or
its designated representative approves of reasonably available odor control
technology for a specific premises, or if lawful activities associated with
marihuana activities on a premises do not cause detectable odors at property
lines.
   (D)   All lighting associated with marihuana activities shall be directed
away from, and be shielded from, adjacent properties without alteration of a
building (such as boarded up windows) and shall be so arranged as to not
adversely affect adjacent properties or driver visibility on adjacent public
roads.
   (E)   Any storage of chemicals used for marihuana, such as herbicides,
pesticides and fertilizers, shall be stored in a reasonably safe and prudent
manner.
   (F)   Any person or entity shall use lawful methods to dispose of waste or
byproducts from any lawful marihuana activities allowed within the village
according to all applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations.
   (G)   All marihuana activities conducted by a person or entity must comply
with applicable state or local laws.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the County
Sheriff’s Department or another official or representative authorized by the
village, or by such other person(s) as designated by the Village President from
time to time.
   (B)   The chapter enforcement duties herein authorized shall include:
      (1)   Investigation of chapter violations;
      (2)   Issuing and serving municipal civil infractions, as authorized
under the Revised Judicature Act, Public Act 12 of 1994, being MCL 600.8396, as
amended;
      (3)   Appearance in court or other judicial proceedings to assist in the
prosecution of chapter violators; and
      (4)   Such other chapter enforcing duties as may be delegated by the
Village President or assigned by the Village Attorney.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2021)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2021)
CHAPTER 97: ANTI-NOISE AND PUBLIC NUISANCE
Section
   
97.01   Title
   
97.02   Unlawful acts; public nuisances
   
97.03   Definition
   
97.04   Exceptions for emergency
   
97.05   Permit for certain activities
   
97.06   Abatement of public nuisance
   
97.07   Exceptions
   
97.08   Public nuisance regulations
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Grass Lake Anti-
Noise and Public Nuisance Ordinance.”
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 97.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS; PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and it shall be deemed a public nuisance for any
person to unreasonably make, continue or cause to be made or continued any
noise that annoys or disturbs the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable
person of normal sensitivities, or that injures or endangers the health, peace
or safety of the public within the village.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be unlawful noise
violations:
      (1)   Radios, CD players and musical instruments. Operating, playing or
permitting the operation or playing of any radio, CD player, television set,
amplified or unamplified musical instrument, drum, loudspeaker, tape recorder
or other sound-producing device in such a manner or with such volume at any
time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of a
reasonable person of normal sensitivities in any office, dwelling or residence.
The operation of any such set, instrument, CD player, machine or device in such
a manner as to be plainly and clearly audible on real property or in a dwelling
unit other than that from which the noise originates or emanates shall be
evidence of a violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Shouting and whistling. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling,
singing or making any other loud noises on the public streets, sidewalks, bike
pathways or other streets or paths located within the village between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day, or the making of any such noise
at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
a reasonable person of normal sensitivities in any office, dwelling or
residence;
      (3)   Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or
equipment used in the construction, excavation, demolition, alteration or
repair or any building, street or highway between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m. the following day, Monday through Saturday, and in between the hours of
9:00 p.m. Saturday and 8:00 a.m. the following Sunday, such that the sound
therefrom is plainly audible in any dwelling, office or residence, or on any
residential property other than the property from which the noise emanates or
originates, unless a variance therefor is first obtained from the Village
President;
      (4)   Engines.
         (a)   Operating or permitting the operation of any steam engine or
internal combustion engine, whether stationary or mobile, so as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of a person of normal sensitivities in any
office, dwelling or residence;
         (b)   This shall not prohibit the operation of any mechanically
powered saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tool, or a similar device
used outdoors in residential areas, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. the same day, nor shall it prohibit the operation of snow removal
equipment at any time necessary; and
         (c)   This shall not prohibit the operation of a farm implement or
state licensed motor vehicle in a manner expressly permitted by state law.
      (5)   Disturbing schools, churches. The emission or creation of any
excessive noise which unreasonably interferes with the operations of any school
or church is not permitted;
      (6)   Animal noises. The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which
emanates frequent or extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity, such as allowing or permitting
any dog to bark repeatedly in an area where such barking can be clearly heard
from nearby residential property, is not permitted;
      (7)   Work on streets, premises and the like. The erection, excavation,
demolition, alteration or repair of any building or premises in any part of the
village, and including the streets and highways, in such a manner as to emanate
noise or disturbance unreasonably annoying to other people, other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and sundown, on any day, except in cases of urgent
necessity in the interest of public health and safety. In such cases, a permit
shall be obtained from the Building Inspector or Ordinance Enforcement Officer
of the village, which permit shall limit the periods that the activity may
continue;
      (8)   Sound amplifying devices. The operation of any loudspeaker or other
sound amplifying device upon any vehicle on the streets of the village with the
purpose of advertising, where such vehicle, speaker or sound amplifying
equipment emits loud and raucous noises easily heard from nearby adjoining
residential property; and
      (9)   Machinery, engines and the like. The operation of any machinery,
equipment or mechanical device so as to emit unreasonably loud noise which is
disturbing to the quiet, comfort or repose of any person.
(Ord. 37, passed - -) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. In addition to its normal meaning, the term PERSON, as used in this
chapter, means a person who causes or makes an unlawful noise or a person who
is in control of a property or premises from which an unlawful noise originates
or emanates.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 97.04 EXCEPTIONS FOR EMERGENCY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the emission of sound for
the purpose of alerting persons of the existence of an emergency or the
emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 97.05 PERMIT FOR CERTAIN ACTIVITIES.
   The Village President may issue a permit to allow construction activity and
outdoor events during hours otherwise prohibited under this chapter even if the
same generate noises which would otherwise be a violation; provided, however,
that no such activity or events shall be permitted, and no permit shall be
issued, until after an application for a permit has been submitted and, after
notice and hearing, the applicant has shown that compliance with this chapter
would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, the community or
other persons affected.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 97.06 ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The Village President may act to abate a public nuisance, as provided by
law, without giving notice if the public health, safety or welfare requires
immediate action. The cost of abating such nuisance shall be charged to the
person found to be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 97.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the prohibitions hereinbefore enumerated shall apply to the
following:
   (A)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine or emergency vehicle while
engaging in necessary emergency activities;
   (B)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets or highways, or other
property, by or on behalf of the state, the village or the county between
sundown and 7:00 a.m. when the public welfare, safety and convenience renders
it impossible to perform such work during other hours; and
   (C)   Normal operation of equipment for farming or construction.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
§ 97.08 PUBLIC NUISANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall create, cause or maintain any
public nuisance within the village.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUISANCE. Any act or acts, or omission to act, on the part of any person
which creates or permits the existence of a situation which annoys, injures or
endangers the peace, welfare, order, health or safety of the public in their
persons or property.
         (a)   As defined herein, a NUISANCE includes, but is not limited to,
conditions which render persons insecure in life or in the use and enjoyment of
their property, such as effects and emanations from noise, glare, lights,
vibration, dust, smoke, odor, gas, steam, fly-ash, soot, acids, chemicals,
fumes, cinders, worms, insects, rodents, flies or decaying matter, whether such
effects and emanations are natural or a result from human or mechanical
alteration or manipulation of materials.
         (b)   A NUISANCE also includes residue or leaching from deposits of
matter which seep into water on the surface or in the ground, thereby making it
unfit or unpalatable for human consumption or for use by domestic animals.
         (c)   A NUISANCE includes a condition which is indecent, obnoxious or
offensive to the senses.
(Ord. 37, passed - -) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 37, passed - -)
CHAPTER 98: FIREWORKS
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Novelties
   
98.04   Consumer fireworks
   
98.05   Articles pyrotechnic and display fireworks
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   In the interest of maintaining public health, safety and the general welfare
and the comfort and repose of village residents, the village hereby provides
for the regulation and use of fireworks in the village, as provided in Public
Act 256 of 2011, being MCL 28.451 et seq., as may be amended, and repeals all
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith.
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APA. The American Pyrotechnics Association.
   ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC. Pyrotechnic devices for professional use that are
similar to consumer fireworks in the chemical composition and construction, but
not intended for consumer use, that meet the weight limits for consumer
fireworks but are not labeled as such, and that are classified as UN0431 or
UN0432 under 49 C.F.R. § 172.101.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507 and that
are listed in APA Standards 87-1A, sections 3.2.2, 3.2.3 and 3.2.4 or current
APA standard.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs (LARA), State
of Michigan.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are chemical compositions
intended for use in professional fireworks displays and designed to produce
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, as
provided in 27 C.F.R. § 555.11, 49 C.F.R. part 171 and APA Standard 87-1B, 2.3
or current APA standard and applicable local, state and/or federal regulations.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a visible
or audible effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation. FIREWORKS consist
of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks and special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices, as that phrase
is defined under APA Standard 87-1A, 2.3 and 3.2.2 or current APA standard.
   MINOR. Individual who is less than 18 years old.
   NATIONAL HOLIDAY. A NATIONAL HOLIDAY is defined in 5 U.S.C. § 6103 and
includes: New Year’s Day (January); Martin Luther King Jr. Day (third Monday in
January); Washington’s Birthday (third Monday in February); Memorial Day (last
Monday in May); Juneteenth National Independence Day (June 19); Independence
Day (July 4); Labor Day (first Monday in September); Columbus Day (second
Monday in October); Veterans Day (November 11); Thanksgiving Day (fourth
Thursday in November) and Christmas Day (December 25).
   NFPA. The National Fire Protection Association.
   NOVELTIES. As defined under APA Standard 87-1A, 2.3, 3.2.1 or current APA
standard and all of the following:
      (1)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips, rolls
or individual caps containing not more than one-fourth of a grain of explosive
content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content
per cap;
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers and toy
guns in which toy caps, as described in division (1) above, are used, that are
constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion; and
      (3)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding one-eighth inch in
diameter.
   PERSON. An individual, agent, association, charitable organization, company,
limited liability company, corporation, labor organization, legal
representative, partnership, unincorporated organization or any other legal or
commercial entity.
   SPECIAL EFFECTS. A combination of chemical elements or chemical compounds
capable of burning independently of the oxygen of the atmosphere and designed
and intended to produce an audible, visual, mechanical or thermal effect as an
integral part of a motion picture, radio, television, theatrical or opera
production or live entertainment.
§ 98.03 NOVELTIES.
   This chapter does not apply to and does not regulate the use of novelties in
the village.
§ 98.04 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks may be used in the village on the day proceeding,
the day of and the day after a national holiday without restriction.
   (B)   At any time other than the day proceeding, the day of and/or the day
after a national holiday, consumer fireworks may be used in the village subject
to the following requirements and restrictions.
      (1)   On Sundays through Thursdays, consumer fireworks may be used up to
10 p.m.
      (2)   On Fridays and Saturdays, consumer fireworks may be used up to
midnight.
      (3)   Consumer fireworks shall not be used if a burn ban is in effect.
      (4)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks on
public property, school property, church property or the property of another
person without that person or organization’s express permission to use the
consumer fireworks on those premises.
      (5)   A person shall not use consumer fireworks or low-impact fireworks
while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a controlled substance or a
combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance.
      (6)   Consumer fireworks shall only be used in accordance with all
applicable local, state and federal laws.
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.05 ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC AND DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The Village Council may permit articles pyrotechnic, display fireworks
and special effect fireworks in the village pursuant to the provisions of
MCL 28.451 et seq. and this chapter.
   (B)   Any person wishing to conduct an articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks or special effects display shall, at least 45 days prior to any
display, submit an application on a form furnished by the village and pay the
required fee, and he or she shall secure permission from the Village Council
prior to any such fireworks display.
   (C)   The site plan of the area where the articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks or special effects display is to be conducted shall be submitted with
the application. The site plan shall set forth all structures in the area and
within the discharge site fallout area. The site plan shall furthermore set
forth the distance separating any fireworks and any spectator viewing areas.
All site plans shall be forwarded to the Fire Chief and/or his or her
designated alternate for approval, including any recommended conditions, prior
to coming before the Village Council for its approval.
   (D)   A copy of any required state or federal permit for the fireworks
display shall be submitted with the application.
   (E)   Proof of insurance conforming to the requirements of this chapter and
Public Act 256 of 2011, being MCL 28.451 et seq., shall be submitted with the
application.
   (F)   The application shall include information as to the competency and
qualifications of the fireworks display operators, as required by NFPA 1123.
   (G)   The Village Council shall approve an application for an articles
pyrotechnic, display fireworks or special effects display if it finds that all
of the following standards are satisfied.
      (1)   The application and accompanying documentation is complete and
conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The operator of the fireworks display is competent and qualified to
conduct the fireworks display per NFPA 1123.
      (3)   The Fire Chief or his/her designated alternate has approved the
application and site plan.
      (4)   The fireworks display will not have an adverse effect upon public
safety.
      (5)   The time, duration and location of the fireworks or special effects
display will not, due to noise and other factors, unreasonably disturb the
peace of persons residing within the vicinity.
      (6)   The Village Council, in approving an application hereunder, shall
have the authority to impose such conditions as it determines, in its sole
reasonable discretion, are necessary to assure that the fireworks display will
satisfy the above standards.
   (H)   Requirements and restrictions are as follows.
      (1)   The person conducting the fireworks display shall follow NFPA 1123
for fireworks displays and/or the village requirements set forth herein,
whichever are more restrictive.
      (2)   A minimum safe area of 250 feet radius, plus an additional 70 feet
radius for each inch by which the fireworks shell exceeds three inches in
diameter, shall be required. The Village Council shall have the authority to
grant a variance from this requirement where it determines, in its sole
reasonable discretion, that given: a) the nature of the subject site; b) the
nature of the surrounding area; and/or c) the nature of the proposed fireworks
display, a variance will not have a material adverse impact on public safety.
In no event, however, shall the applicant fail to comply with the minimum
requirements of NFPA 1123.
      (3)   The applicant shall maintain personal injury liability insurance/
property damage liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for each event.
The village shall be named as an additional insured on the insurance policy.
      (4)   The Village Council shall not issue a permit to a nonresident
person until the person has appointed, in writing, a member of the state bar or
a resident agent to be the person’s legal representative, upon whom all process
in an action or proceeding against the person may be served.
      (5)   The applicant shall be responsible for all shells being fired. In
the event one or more of the shells does not explode, the applicant shall
secure the area until the unexploded shell(s) is found and properly disposed
of.
      (6)   The consumption of alcohol immediately prior to and during the
fireworks display by any person involved in conducting the display is
prohibited.
      (7)   A fireworks display conducted hereunder shall conform with all
specifications set forth in the approved application and site plan, as well as
with any conditions imposed by the Village Council in granting such approval.
      (8)   The applicant shall cause the site of the fireworks display to be
cleaned up within 24 hours after the fireworks display has ended.
      (9)   A permit is not transferable and shall not be granted to a minor.
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
      
113.   FRANCHISES
      
114.   CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS, AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Application
   
110.02   Businesses requiring license
   
110.03   Revocation; appeals
   
110.04   Cause
   
110.05   Posting of license
§ 110.01 APPLICATION.
   All licenses required by the provisions of this chapter shall be granted by
the Village Clerk upon application. The application shall state the name of the
person or company to be licensed and the time for which the license is
required. A nominal fee for the license as set out in the fee schedule in Ch.
39 of this code is payable to the Village Clerk, who shall then issue the
license and keep a record of same. It is further understood that all laws and
village ordinances shall be strictly adhered to and that their place of
business be maintained in a neat and orderly fashion by the licensees.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 BUSINESSES REQUIRING LICENSE.
   (A)   Manufacturing;
   (B)   Commercial garages;
   (C)   Retail and wholesale outlets;
   (D)   Hawkers and peddlers other than nonprofit organizations; commercial
salespersons selling to local business firms need no licenses;
   (E)   Exhibitors, shows, circuses, theater performances, games of
entertainment and the like, for which fees are charged;
   (F)   Business and professional offices;
   (G)   Printing firms or individuals;
   (H)   Business whereby one’s trade is offered for sale; barber shops, hair
stylists, funeral homes and the like;
   (I)   Pool (that is, billiard halls and card rooms);
   (J)   Farmers, nurserypersons selling own product for charge;
   (K)   Auction fairs or other exhibitions for charitable, donated, benevolent
or profitable purposes;
   (L)   Auction sales of household effects and farm implements of two-day
duration or more;
   (M)   All businesses required to be licensed by any state or federal agency
must present proof that they hold a valid and up-to-date license and will be
required to register with the Village Clerk on a yearly basis. This
registration will have a charge, to be set by the Village Council and reviewed
on a regular basis, but will not be required to purchase a license; and
   (N)   Personal household sales, commonly known as garage, basement, yard or
similar-type sales, exceeding six days or two three-day periods in any one
year. A license shall be required for any such sales which exceed that period
or those periods, and shall be issued for a maximum period of ten consecutive
days, with no reissuance during any one calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.03 REVOCATION; APPEALS.
   (A)   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked by the Village
Council for cause. The licensee may appeal for reinstatement by Council,
provided a written request thereof is filed with the Village Clerk within five
days after receipt of notice of revocation.
   (B)   Thereafter, the Council shall confirm the revocation or reinstate the
license within five days after the hearing. The action of the Council after
hearing shall be final.
   (C)   Any licensee whose license has been revoked shall not be eligible to
apply for a new license for the same or similar business or purpose for a
period of one year after revocation.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04 CAUSE.
   The term CAUSE, as used in §
110.03 of this code, shall include the doing or omitting of any act, or
permitting any condition to exist, in connection with the trade, profession,
business or purpose or privilege for which a license is granted under this
chapter, which act, omission or condition is:
   (A)   Contrary to the health, morals, safety or welfare of the public;
   (B)   Unlawful or illegal;
   (C)   Unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license; and/or
   (D)   Forbidden by the provisions of this chapter or any other village
ordinance, state statute or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall be posted on the licensee’s premises in a readily seen
area or displayed in a prominent place on the display case or automobile of a
hawker, peddler, solicitor or salesperson.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
111.03   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
111.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
111.05   Proprietary information
   
111.06   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
111.07   Tolling order
   
111.08   Public notice; hearing on rates following tolling of 30-day deadline
   
111.09   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
111.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
111.11   Refunds; notice
   
111.12   Written decisions; public notice
   
111.13   Rules and regulations
   
111.14   Failure to give notice
   
111.15   Additional hearings
   
111.16   Additional powers
   
111.17   Failure to comply; remedies
   
111.18   Conflicting provisions
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as
amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, Pub. Law No. 102-385, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), and as may be
amended from time to time.
      ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
      BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Basic service, as defined in the FCC rules, and any
other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the
village pursuant to the Act and the FCC rules.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
      FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
      INCREASE IN RATES. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
   (B)   All other words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same
meaning as defined in the Act and FCC rules.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the village.
   (B)   This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with the
Act and FCC rules.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.03 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the village shall follow all FCC rules.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.04 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment, or a proposed increase in rates, in
accordance with the Act and the FCC rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission information as is necessary to show that its schedule of
rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and the FCC
rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or proposed
increase with the Village Clerk. For purposes of this chapter, the filing of
the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least ten copies
have been received by the Village Clerk. The Village Council may, by resolution
or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the information, data and
calculations which must be included as part of the cable operator’s filing of
the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the village pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide
all information requested by the Village President in connection with the
village’s review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The Village
President may establish deadlines for submission of the requested information,
and the cable operator shall comply with the deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment, or a proposed increase in
the rates, complies with the Act and the FCC rules, including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.05 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   If this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the village
pursuant to §
111.04(A) of this code or any request for information pursuant to §
111.04(B) of this code requires the production of proprietary information, the
cable operator shall produce the information. However, at the time the
allegedly proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request
that specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential
and withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the
information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those
reasons. The request for confidentiality will be granted if the village
determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure is
consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §
552. The village shall place in a public file for inspection any decision that
results in information being withheld.
      (2)   If the cable operator requests confidentiality and the request is
denied:
         (a)   Where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case, the allegedly proprietary information
will be returned to it; or
         (b)   The cable operator may seek review within five working days of
the denial in any appropriate forum. Release of the information will be stayed
pending review.
   (B)   (1)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material
withheld as proprietary with the village. The village shall weigh the policy
considerations favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or
condition a request.
      (2)   The requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the
decision by filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be
stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality, including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.06 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates, or the
proposed increase in rates, pursuant to §
111.04(A) of this code, the Village Clerk shall publish a public notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village, which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Village Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the Village Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice
is published.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time and place of the meeting at which the Village Council shall first consider
the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be mailed by
first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition, if a
written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase is prepared for consideration of the Village Council, then the Village
Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first-class mail to the cable operator
at least three days before the meeting at which the Village Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.07 TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
111.04(A) of this code unless the Village Council (or other properly authorized
body or official) tolls the 30-day deadline, pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933, by
issuing a brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of
the date of filing. The Village Council may toll the 30-day deadline for an
additional 90 days in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an
additional 150 days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.08 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
111.07 of this code and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of
existing rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment, or a
proposed increase in these rates, the cable operator shall submit to the
village any additional information required or requested pursuant to §
111.04 of this code.
   (B)   In addition, the Village Council shall hold a public hearing to
consider the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or
150-day period, as the case may be. The Village Clerk shall publish a public
notice of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
village, which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent or by letter at
the hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates, or the proposed increase in rates,
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (C)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy
of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.09 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   (A)   Following the public hearing, the Village President shall cause a
report to be prepared for the Village Council, which shall (based on the filing
of the cable operator, the comments or objections of interested parties,
information requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or
consultant’s review and other appropriate information) include a recommendation
for the decision of the Village Council pursuant to §
111.10 of this code.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable
operator by first-class mail not less than 20 days before the Village Council
acts under §
111.10 of this code. The cable operator may file a written response to the
report with the Village Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed
by the cable operator with the Village Clerk within ten days after the report
is mailed to the cable operator, the Village Clerk shall forward it to the
Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.10 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   The Village Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or
otherwise, which in whole or in part approves the existing rates for basic
cable service and associated equipment or a proposed increase in the rates,
denies the existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction,
prescribes a reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to
become effective, subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief in
accordance with the FCC rules.
   (B)   If the Village Council issues an order allowing the existing rates or
proposed increase to become effective, subject to refund, it shall also direct
the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933.
The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90 days of the
tolling order under §
111.07 of this code in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The
order shall be issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
111.07 of this code in all cases involving a cost-of- service showing.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.11 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Village Council may order a refund to subscribers, as provided in
47 C.F.R. § 76.942. Before the Village Council orders any refund to
subscribers, the Village Clerk shall give at least seven days’ written notice
to the cable operator, by first-class mail, of the date, time and place at
which the Village Council shall consider issuing a refund order and shall
provide an opportunity for the cable operator to comment.
   (B)   The cable operator may appear in person, by agent or by letter at that
time for the purpose of submitting comments to the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 111.11) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.12 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the Village Council pursuant to §§
111.10 or
111.11 of this code shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by
the Village Council and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.
The Clerk shall publish a public notice of any written order in a newspaper of
general circulation within the village, which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Prior Code, § 111.12) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
111.04 of this code, the Village Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt
rules and regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings
(including, without limitation, the conduct of hearings) consistent with the
Act and the FCC rules.
(Prior Code, § 111.13) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.14 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the Village Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 111.14) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.15 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the Village Council may
hold additional public hearings, upon reasonable notice, as the Village
Council, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 111.15) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.16 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   (A)   The village shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC
rules, the cable operator’s franchise and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC rules and this chapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise.
   (B)   The village may take any action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC
rules to protect the public interest in connection with basic cable service
rate regulation.
(Prior Code, § 111.16) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   (A)   The village may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies
against the cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies
provided under a cable operator’s franchise with the village) for failure to
comply with the Act, the FCC rules, any orders or determinations of the village
pursuant to this chapter, any requirements of this chapter or any rules or
regulations promulgated hereunder.
   (B)   Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the Act, the FCC
rules, any orders or determinations of the village pursuant to this chapter,
any requirements of this chapter or any rules and regulations promulgated
hereunder shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or denial of renewal
of a cable operator’s franchise.
(Prior Code, § 111.17) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.18 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this chapter and the provisions of any
prior ordinance or any franchise, permit, consent agreement or other agreement
with a cable operator, then the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, § 111.18) (Ord. 23, passed 9-7-1993)
CHAPTER 112: TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Conflict
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Permit required
   
112.05   Issuance of permit
   
112.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
112.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
112.08   Route maps
   
112.09   Repair of damage
   
112.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
112.11   Modification of existing fees
   
112.12   Savings clause
   
112.13   Use of funds
   
112.14   Annual report
   
112.15   Cable television operators
   
112.16   Existing rights
   
112.17   Compliance
   
112.18   Reservation of police powers
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunication facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002 (the “Act”), being MCL 484.3101 et seq.,
and other applicable law, and to ensure that the village qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in a manner so as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, being MCL 484.3101 et seq., as amended
from time to time.
      PERMIT. A nonexclusive permit issued, pursuant to the Act and this
chapter, to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in
the village for its telecommunication facilities.
      STREET ADMINISTRATOR. The Street Administrator duly appointed by
resolution of the Village Council in accordance with the provisions of Public
Act 51 of 1951, being MCL 247.651 et seq., or his or her designee.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Grass Lake, Michigan.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Grass Lake or its
designee. This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including, without limitation, the
following.
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority, created pursuant to Public Act 48 of 2002, § 3, being
MCL 484.3103.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
COMMISSION in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunications services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service, as defined in § 332(d) of Part 1 of Title III of the Communications
Act of 1934, Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and further defined as
“commercial mobile radio service” in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and service provided by
any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in the state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of
1991, § 102, being MCL 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER does not include a
person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed
commercial mobile radio service, as defined in § 332(d) of Part 1 of the
Communications Act of 1934, Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and
further defined as “commercial mobile radio service” in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the
following: a cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunication facilities shall apply for and obtain a
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act,
being MCL 484.3106(1). A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the
application with the Village Clerk, one copy with the Village Street
Administrator and one copy with the Village Attorney. Upon receipt, the Village
Clerk shall make two copies of the application and distribute a copy to the
Village Building Inspector, Village Council and the Village Department of
Public Works. Applications shall be complete and include all information
required by the Act, including, without limitation, a route map showing the
location of the provider’s existing and proposed facilities, in accordance with
§ 6(5) of the Act, being MCL 484.3106(5).
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contains trade secret, proprietary or confidential information which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being MCL 15.231
et seq., pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, being MCL 484.3106(5), the
telecommunications provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each
map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time nonrefundable application fee as
set out in the fee schedule in Ch. 39 of this code.
   (E)   Additional information. The Street Administrator may request an
applicant to submit additional information which the Street Administrator deems
reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all the
requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for the additional information
established by the Street Administrator. If the village and the applicant
cannot agree on the requirement of additional information requested by the
village, the village or the applicant shall notify the MPSC, as provided in § 6
(2) of the Act, being MCL 484.3106(2).
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act, being Public
Act 48 of 2002, MCL 484.3103, authorizations or permits previously issued by
the village under the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991,
§ 251, being MCL 484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the village
to telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, being MCL 484.3105
(3), within 180 days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a
telecommunications provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in
the village as of that date that has not previously obtained authorization or a
permit under the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, §
251, being MCL 484.2251, shall submit to the village an application for a
permit in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3)
of the Act, a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
division (G) is not required to pay the application fee required under division
(D) above. A provider under this division (G) shall be given up to an
additional 180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the
Authority, as provided in § 5(4) of the Act, being MCL 484.3105(4).
(Prior Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Street Administrator. Pursuant to § 15
(3) of the Act, being MCL 484.3115(3), the Street Administrator shall approve
or deny an application for a permit within 45 days from the date a
telecommunications provider files an application for a permit under §
112.04(B) of this code for access to a public right-of-way within the village.
Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act, being MCL 484.3106(6), the Street Administrator
shall notify the MPSC when he or she has granted or denied a permit, including
information regarding the date on which the application was filed and the date
on which permit was granted or denied. The Street Administrator shall not
unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the Street
Administrator shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2)
and 15 of the Act, being MCL 484.3106(1), 484.3106(2) and 484.3115.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, being MCL 484.3115(4), the
Street Administrator may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which
conditions shall be limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and
usage of the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, being MCL 484.3115
(3), and without limitation on division (C) above, the Street Administrator may
require that a bond be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition
of the permit. If a bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost
to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its original condition
during and after the telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.06 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public rights-of-way in the village without first obtaining
a construction or engineering permit as required under §§
150.01 to
150.06 of this code, as amended, for construction within the public rights- of-
way. No fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Prior Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, being MCL 484.3104(3), obtaining a permit or
paying the fees required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a
telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Prior Code, § 112.07) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, being MCL 484.3106(7), a
telecommunications provider shall, within 90 days after the substantial
completion of construction of new telecommunication facilities in the village,
submit route maps showing the location of the telecommunication facilities to
both the MPSC and to the village.
   (B)   The route maps should be in paper or electronic format unless and
until the MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act,
being MCL 484.3106(8).
(Prior Code, § 112.08) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, being MCL 484.3115(5), a telecommunications
provider undertaking excavation or construction or installing telecommunication
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the village, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair
all damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below
or within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-
of-way to its preexisting condition.
(Prior Code, § 112.09) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the nonrefundable application fee paid to the village as set
forth in §
112.04(D) of this code, a telecommunications provider with telecommunication
facilities in the village’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual
maintenance fee to the Authority, pursuant to § 8 of the Act, being
MCL 484.3108.
(Prior Code, § 112.10) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, being MCL
484.3113(1), the village hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees
charged to telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective
date of the Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way to an
amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act,
which shall be paid to the Authority.
   (B)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, being
MCL 484.3113(4), the village also hereby approves modification of the fees of
providers with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the
village’s boundaries so that those providers pay only those fees required under
§ 8 of the Act, being MCL 484.3108.
   (C)   The village shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act, being MCL 484.3113(4).
   (D)   To the extent any fees are charged to telecommunications providers in
excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, the imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the village’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the village, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Prior Code, § 112.11) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, being MCL 484.3113(5), if § 8 of the Act,
being MCL 484.3108, is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, the
modification of fees under §
112.11 of this code shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Prior Code, § 112.12) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.13 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act, being MCL 484.3110(4), all amounts received
by the village from the Authority shall be used by the village solely for
rights-of-way-related purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds
received by the village from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major
Street Fund and/or the Local Street Fund maintained by the village under Public
Act 51 of 1951, being MCL 247.651 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 112.13) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.14 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, being MCL 484.3110(5), the Street
Administrator shall file an annual report with the Authority on the use and
disposition of funds annually distributed by the Authority.
(Prior Code, § 112.14) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.15 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, being MCL 484.3113(6), the village shall not
hold a cable television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure
to satisfy an obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective
date of this Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross
revenues from charges the cable operator received for cable modem services
provided through broadband internet transport access services.
(Prior Code, § 112.15) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.16 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, being MCL 484.3104(2), except as expressly
provided herein with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any
existing rights that a telecommunications provider or the village may have
under a permit issued by the village, or under a contract between the village
and a telecommunications provider, related to the use of the public rights-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 112.16) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.17 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The village hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting
this chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the
provisions hereof should be construed in a manner so as to achieve that
purpose.
   (B)   The village shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being MCL 15.231 et seq., as provided in §
112.04(C) of this code;
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
112.04(F) of this code;
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit and excusing the providers from the application fee,
in accordance with §
112.04(G) of this code;
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of- way within the village, in
accordance with §
112.05(A) of this code;
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the village has granted or denied a permit,
in accordance with §
112.05(A) of this code;
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
112.05(A) of this code;
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
112.05(B) of this code;
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access to and usage of the public right-of-way,
in accordance with §
112.05(C) of this code;
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunications provider’s access
and use, in accordance with §
112.05(D) of this code;
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications provider any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
112.06 of this code;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the
village’s right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
112.11(C) of this code;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
112.14 of this code; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
112.15 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 112.17) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.18 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, being MCL 484.3115(2), this chapter shall
not limit the village’s right to review and approve a telecommunications
provider’s access to and ongoing use of a public right- of-way or limit the
village’s authority to ensure and protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
(Prior Code, § 112.18) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.99) (Ord. 35, passed 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 113: FRANCHISES
Section
Electric Franchise
   
113.01   Grant; term
   
113.02   Consideration
   
113.03   Conditions
   
113.04   Hold harmless
   
113.05   Extensions
   
113.06   Franchise not exclusive
   
113.07   Rates
   
113.08   Revocation
   
113.09   State Public Service Commission jurisdiction
   
113.10   Repealer
   
113.11   Effective date
Gas Franchise
   
113.25   Grant; term
   
113.26   Conditions
   
113.27   Hold harmless
   
113.28   Extensions
   
113.29   Franchise not exclusive
   
113.30   Rates and conditions
   
113.31   Revocation
   
113.32   State Public Service Commission jurisdiction
   
113.33   Repealer
   
113.34   Effective date
ELECTRIC FRANCHISE
§ 113.01 GRANT; TERM.
   The village hereby grants the right, power and authority to the Consumers
Energy Company, a Michigan corporation, its successors and assigns, hereinafter
called the “grantee,” to construct, maintain and commercially use electric
lines consisting of towers, masts, poles, crossarms, guys, braces, feeders,
transmission and distribution wires, transformers and other electrical
appliances for the purpose of transmitting, transforming and distributing
electricity on, under, along and across the highways, streets, alleys, bridges,
waterways and other public places, and to do a local electric business in the
village for a period of 30 years
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.02 CONSIDERATION.
   In consideration of the rights, power and authority hereby granted, said
grantee shall faithfully perform all things required by the terms hereof.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.03 CONDITIONS.
   No highway, street, alley, bridge, waterway or other public place used by
said grantee shall be obstructed longer than necessary during the work of
construction or repair, and such shall be restored to the same order and
condition as when said work was commenced. All of grantee’s structures and
equipment shall be so placed on either side of the highways so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the use thereof for highway purposes. All of
grantee’s wires carrying electricity shall be securely fastened so as not to
endanger or injure persons or property in said highways. The grantee shall have
the right to trim trees if necessary in the conducting of such business,
subject, however, to the supervision of the highway authorities.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.04 HOLD HARMLESS.
   The grantee shall at all times keep and save the village free and harmless
from all loss, costs and expense it may be subject to by reason of the
negligent construction and maintenance of the structures and equipment hereby
authorized. In case any action is commenced against the village on account of
the permission herein given, said grantee shall, upon notice, defend the
village and save it free and harmless from all loss, cost and damage arising
out of such negligent construction and maintenance.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.05 EXTENSIONS.
   The grantee shall construct and extend its electric distribution system
within said village and shall furnish electric service to applicants residing
therein in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.06 FRANCHISE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights, power and authority herein granted are not exclusive.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.07 RATES.
   The grantee shall be entitled to charge the inhabitants of said village, for
electricity furnished therein, the rates as approved by the state’s Public
Service Commission, to which Commission, or its successors, authority and
jurisdiction to fix and regulate electric rates and rules regulating such
service in said village are hereby granted for the term of this franchise. Such
rates and rules shall be subject to review and change at any time upon petition
therefor being made by either said village acting by its Village Council or by
said grantee.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.08 REVOCATION.
   The franchise granted by this subchapter is subject to revocation upon 60
days’ written notice by the party desiring such revocation.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.09 STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION JURISDICTION.
   The grantee shall, as to all other conditions and elements of service not
herein fixed, be and remain subject to the reasonable rules and regulations of
the state’s Public Service Commission, or its successors, applicable to
electric service in said village.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.10 REPEALER.
   This subchapter, when accepted and published as herein provided, shall
repeal and supersede the provisions of an electric ordinance adopted by the
village on May 6, 1986, entitled “AN ORDINANCE, granting to CONSUMERS POWER
COMPANY its successors and assigns, the right, power and authority to
construct, maintain and commercially use electric lines consisting of towers,
masts, poles, crossarms, guys, braces, feeders, transmission and distribution
wires, transformers and other electrical appliances on, under, along and across
the highways, streets, alleys, bridges and other public places, and to do a
local electric business in the VILLAGE OF GRASS LAKE, JACKSON COUNTY MICHIGAN,”
and amendments, if any, to such ordinance whereby an electric franchise was
granted to Consumers Energy Company.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
§ 113.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect upon the day after the date of publication
thereof; provided, however, it shall cease and be of no effect after 30 days
from its adoption unless, within said period, the grantee shall accept the same
in writing, filed with the Village Clerk. Upon acceptance and publication
hereof, this subchapter shall constitute a contract between said village and
said grantee.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2016)
GAS FRANCHISE
§ 113.25 GRANT; TERM.
   The village hereby grants to Consumers Energy Company, its successors and
assigns, hereinafter called “Consumers,” the right and authority to lay,
maintain and commercially operate gas lines and facilities including, but not
limited to, mains, pipes, services and valves on, under, along and across
public places including, but not limited to, highways, streets, alleys, bridges
and waterways, and to conduct a local gas business in the village for a period
of 30 years.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.26 CONDITIONS.
   No public place used by Consumers shall be obstructed longer than necessary
during construction or repair, and such shall be restored to the same order and
condition as when work was commenced. All of Consumers’ gas lines and related
facilities shall be placed so as not to unnecessarily interfere with the
public’s use of public places. Consumers shall have the right to trim or remove
trees if necessary in the conducting of such business.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.27 HOLD HARMLESS.
   Consumers shall save the village free and harmless from all loss, costs and
expense to which it may be subject by reason of the negligent construction and
maintenance of the lines and related facilities hereby authorized. In case any
action is commenced against the village on account of the permission herein
given, Consumers shall, upon notice, defend the village and its representatives
and hold them harmless from all loss, costs and damage arising out of such
negligent construction and maintenance.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.28 EXTENSIONS.
   Consumers shall construct and extend its gas distribution system within said
village and shall furnish gas service to applicants residing therein in
accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.29 FRANCHISE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The rights, power and authority herein granted are not exclusive.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.30 RATES AND CONDITIONS.
   Consumers shall be entitled to provide gas service to the inhabitants of the
village at the rates and pursuant to the conditions as approved by the state’s
Public Service Commission. Such rates and conditions shall be subject to review
and change upon petition to the state’s Public Service Commission.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.31 REVOCATION.
   The franchise granted by this subchapter is subject to revocation upon 60
days’ written notice by either party. Upon revocation, this subchapter shall be
considered repealed and of no effect past, present or future.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.32 STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION JURISDICTION.
   Consumers remains subject to the reasonable rules and regulations of the
state’s Public Service Commission applicable to gas service in the village, and
those rules and regulations preempt any term of any ordinance of the village to
the contrary.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.33 REPEALER.
   This subchapter, when enacted, shall repeal and supersede the provisions of
any previous Consumers’ gas franchise ordinances adopted by the village,
including any amendments.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 113.34 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter took effect on March 21, 2021.
(Ord. 2021-01-19-01, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-04-06-01, passed 4-20-2021)
CHAPTER 114: CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application for license
   
114.04   Filing false application
   
114.05   Approval/denial
   
114.06   Revocation of peddling/soliciting activity
   
114.07   Other licenses or permits
   
114.08   Regulations; conduct
   
114.09   Stands; regular places of business require approval
   
114.10   Identification card
   
114.11   Manner of canvassing; duties of canvassers
   
114.12   Hours in residential areas
   
114.13   Records of licenses
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. A person who, without prior specific invitation or appointment,
attempts to enlist noncommercial support for or against a particular religion,
philosophy, ideology, political party, issue or candidate, even if incidental
to such purpose the canvasser accepts the donation of money for or against such
cause, or distributes handbills or flyers advertising a noncommercial event or
service, including student and youth support and solicitation of proceeds for
an educational, recreational, civic or religious purpose which directly
benefits the student and/or sponsoring organization.
   PEDDLER. Any person who, without prior specific invitation or appointment,
offers, exposes for commercial sale or makes available for a commercial price,
makes, sells and/or delivers commercial articles to purchasers, or takes or
attempts to take commercial orders for sale of goods, foodstuffs, or services
of any kind, for immediate or future delivery or performance, whether or not
such person has, carries or exposes for sale sample of the subject of such sale
or whether or not he or she is collecting advance payments on such sale, by any
of the following means:
      (1)   Traveling by foot, automotive vehicle, or other conveyance, from
place to place, house to house, or street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting such goods, wares, merchandise or foodstuffs;
      (2)   Hiring, leasing or occupying any building or structure for the
exhibit or sale of such goods, foodstuffs, or services, while not on the
village tax rolls, including a person who associates temporarily with a local
merchant or dealer, which building or structure is not otherwise used for that
purpose;
      (3)   Offering out of doors such goods, foodstuffs or services from a
stationary cart, stand, wagon, automotive vehicle or from one's person.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company,
association or joint stock association, house of worship, religious sect or
denomination, society, organization or league, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee, subcontractor, agent or other similar representative
thereof.
   SOLICITOR. A person who, without prior specific invitation or appointment,
attempts to obtain a commercially driven donation for a particular patriotic,
philanthropic, social service, welfare, benevolent, educational, civic,
fraternal, charitable, political or religious purpose, even if incidental to
such purpose there is the sale of some good or service, or distributes a
handbill or flyer advertising a commercial event or service.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, either as principal or agent, to
operate as a peddler or as a solicitor in the village without having first
obtained a license in the manner provided in this chapter. A canvasser is not
required to obtain a license.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person who shall operate as a peddler or a solicitor within the
village shall be required to provide a copy of the application for a license to
the Village Clerk in accordance with the Jackson County Clerk's Office and
State of Michigan.
   (B)   Prior to the date of beginning operations in the village, any person
operating as a peddler or a solicitor must provide the following information to
the Village Clerk on a form provided at the village office, which information
shall be further investigated by the Jackson County Sheriff Department:
      (1)   The name of the person(s) who will engage in peddling within the
village, including the person's current home address and length of residence at
such address, business address if other than the residence address, business
and residence telephone numbers, driver's license or state identification
number, and a physical description including height, weight, and color of hair
and eyes.
      (2)   A brief description of the business or activity to be conducted
including the methods to be used and a description of the types of goods or
services to be sold.
      (3)   The dates, hours and location for which the right to engage in
canvassing, peddling and/or soliciting is sought.
      (4)   Proof that the applicant has obtained all licenses or permits, if
any, required by state law.
      (5)   If employed by or acting as an agent for another entity, the name,
address and telephone number of the other entity that is being represented, and
when this entity was formed, including the form of its organization.
      (6)   A statement as to whether the applicant's parent organization has
ever been found to have violated a municipal ordinance regulating peddling or
soliciting, and if "yes," the details thereof.
      (7)   A current ICHAT (internet criminal history access tool) report
(within the last 30 days) for each employee who will be engaging in peddling as
to whether the peddler, or an officer or director of the peddler's parent
organization has/have ever been convicted of a felony, and/or of any sex
offense, and if so, the date and location of such conviction, and a brief
description of the offense. A waiver to perform a criminal background search
shall be provided by the village which must be signed by each person.
      (8)   A current photograph of the applicant and a photograph of the
person(s) who will be engaged in the peddling, taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches in size showing the face and shoulders of the peddler, in
a clear and distinguishing manner.
      (9)   The motor vehicle make, model, year, color, state license plate and
number of any vehicle which will be used by each person canvassing/peddling/
soliciting.
      (10)   The mailing or website address where residents having subsequent
questions can go for more information.
      (11)   Copies of literature to be distributed, other municipal
references, etc.
      (12)   The application shall be signed by the applicant stating that the
information contained therein is true and correct, that the village shall have
the right to investigate and verify the information contained in the
application, and that the applicant has read the Canvasser, Peddlers and
Solicitors Ordinance and agrees to abide by its terms.
      (13)   The applicant shall sign a hold harmless agreement releasing the
village from any claims made against the village that arise out of the actions
of the peddler or solicitor.
   (C)   An application for peddling, soliciting, or canvassing shall be
accompanied by a fee. Such fee shall be established by resolution of the
Village Council. No fee shall be charged to:
      (1)   Village merchants, representatives and charities engaging in year-
round business with a permanent location in the village.
      (2)   Any honorably discharged veteran who is a resident of this state
and who has obtained a veteran's license from a County Clerk within the state.
      (3)   Village government representatives, Grass Lake Community Schools,
and youth organizations such as Girl Scouts, softball, etc.
   (D)   Information submitted under this section shall remain valid for up to
six months, however, a peddler/solicitor shall, within three calendar days
after a change occurs, report to the Village Clerk in writing any material
change in any information previously provided on the application form. A new
application is required to be submitted to the Village Clerk for any peddling,
soliciting, and activity conducted beyond ten business days after the current
application.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.04 FILING FALSE APPLICATION.
   No person shall knowingly file or cause to be filed an application for
peddling/soliciting or a document supporting such an application containing one
or more false statements.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.05 APPROVAL/DENIAL.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for approval of peddling/soliciting
activities required by this chapter, the Village Clerk shall, within 48 hours
of the time of such receipt, refer such application to the Jackson County
Sheriff’s Department or his or her designated representative for making any
necessary investigation. The Jackson County Sheriff’s Department with the duty
of making the investigation shall make recommendation thereon, favorable or
otherwise, and give a recommendation to the Village Clerk. Upon completion of
the required investigation, the peddling/soliciting activity shall be approved
upon a determination that the applicant has met all provisions of this chapter,
including:
      (1)   The required fees have been paid;
      (2)   The applicant has not made a material misrepresentation of fact in
and/or falsified any of the contents of the application, unless the applicant
can demonstrate that the falsehood was the result of excusable neglect;
      (3)   The applicant has not had a peddler's or solicitor's permit denied
or revoked by the village within a period of two years prior to the date of the
application;
      (4)   The applicant has never been convicted of a felony, a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude and/or convicted of any sexual offenses; and
      (5)   The applicant has met all other requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   If the village denies the peddling/soliciting activity, such denial
shall be immediately conveyed in writing to the applicant by the Village Clerk.
Within 48 hours of the denial, the Village Clerk shall prepare a written report
which shall be issued, either by email communication, facsimile correspondence
or first-class mail, to the applicant, and the applicant shall be invited to
respond to the report and present evidence in support of his or her response.
   (C)   Denials may be appealed to the Village Council by the filing of a
written appeal within seven days of the denial. The Village Council shall make
a determination after presentation by the applicant, supported by a
preponderance of the evidence, as to whether or not the grounds for denial
should be upheld.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.06 REVOCATION OF PEDDLING/SOLICITING ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Peddling/soliciting activity may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   The peddler/solicitor has violated any of the provisions of this
chapter, this code for the village, or any state or federal laws, rules or
regulations pertaining to peddling or soliciting statute of the state.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements have been made by
the peddler/solicitor in the course of carrying on an activity or in
application for peddling/soliciting activity.
      (3)   The peddler/solicitor has been convicted of any felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within the last seven years prior to or
while peddling/soliciting in the village.
      (4)   The peddler/solicitor has conducted an activity in such a manner as
to constitute a breach of the peace or a menace to the health, safety or
general welfare of the public.
      (5)   The peddler/solicitor has had a written complaint filed against him
or her for violation of this chapter and probable cause exists for
substantiation of the complaint.
   (B)   If upon investigation by the village, it is discovered that a peddler/
solicitor has violated any regulations of this chapter, written notice of such
violation shall be issued, by certified mail, to that person. Immediately upon
the giving of such notice, approval for the peddling/soliciting activity shall
become null and void.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.07 OTHER LICENSES OR PERMITS.
   Permission obtained under this chapter shall not relieve any person of the
responsibility for obtaining any other permit, license or authorization
required by any ordinance, regulation, statute or administrative rule. No
peddler or solicitor shall be allowed to distribute food until the applicant
and any vehicle and equipment used by such applicant are approved by the Health
Department for the State of Michigan or Jackson County, if such approval is
required by law.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.08 REGULATIONS; CONDUCT.
   No peddler or solicitor shall:
   (A)   Peddle or solicit upon a premise in defiance of a posted notice
stating, "No Trespassing" or "No Solicitors or Peddlers";
   (B)   Remove any yard sign, door or entrance sign that gives notice to such
person that the resident or occupant does not invite visitors;
   (C)   Fail to immediately and peacefully depart from a premise when
requested to do so by the occupant;
   (D)   Use or attempt to use any entrance other than the front or main
entrance to a dwelling;
   (E)   Fail to accurately reveal all information contained in the application
for peddling/soliciting and all information required to be revealed by state
law to any person requesting such information;
   (F)   Represent that the peddling/soliciting activity approved under this
chapter is an endorsement by the village;
   (G)   Stop for the purposes of selling or offering to sell any products
within a distance of 500 feet from any public, private or parochial school
building, or the lands on which such school buildings are located in the
village on any days during which such school is in session;
   (H)   Occupy a stationary location on a public street, sidewalk, parkway,
park, parking lot or any other public property, which is used by pedestrians or
persons operating motor vehicles, unless otherwise approved by the village. A
peddler or solicitor shall be presumed to have occupied a stationary location
if he or she has conducted business in any such public place for a period in
excess of ten minutes;
   (I)   Use or employ any flashing lights on any vehicle, or any other device
for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or merchandise the
peddler or solicitor proposes to sell;
   (J)   Threaten or harass any person in the course of their activities or in
any way engage in conduct that threatens the health and safety of another or
causes a nuisance;
   (K)   No person shall engage in abusive peddling or solicitation. Abusive
activity shall include, but not be limited to, one or more of the following
while peddling or soliciting or immediately thereafter: coming closer than
three feet to the person peddled or solicited unless and until such person
indicates he or she wishes to make a purchase or otherwise receive the peddling
or solicitation; blocking or impeding the passage of the person being peddled
or solicited; repeating peddling or solicitation after the person has indicated
his or her objection to the peddling or solicitation; following a person by
proceeding behind, ahead or alongside such person after the person has
indicated his or her objection; threatening a person with physical harm by word
or gesture; abusing a person being peddled or solicited with words which are
offensive and inherently likely to provoke an immediate violent reaction; or
touching the person being peddled or solicited without consent;
   (L)   No peddler or solicitor shall request a person being peddled or
solicited to retrieve something from inside his or her home which requires him
or her to leave the front door;
   (M)   No peddler or solicitor shall request a person being peddled or
solicited to allow him or her to enter the person's residence;
   (N)   During a parade which proceeds through the village no peddler or
solicitor shall sell, peddle, or solicit in the street which is part of the
parade route; or
   (O)   Sell, peddle or solicit on any village block that has demonstrated by
a petition signed by 51% of the residents on that block, being submitted to the
village, that it is an exempt block.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.09 STANDS; REGULAR PLACES OF BUSINESS REQUIRE APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell, peddle or solicit on the
public streets, alleys or other public places of the village at any established
stand or location, or use any place on the highways as a regular place of
business, or use any place on private property as a regular place of business
without first obtaining approval from the village.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.10 IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   Any police or code official may require any person seen soliciting or
peddling, who is not known by such official to hold an approved application, to
show proof of identity for verification with the Village Clerk, and to enforce
the provisions of this chapter against any person found to be violating them.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.11 MANNER OF CANVASSING; DUTIES OF CANVASSERS.
   No canvasser shall:
   (A)   Canvass upon a premise in defiance of a posted notice stating, "No
Trespassing," "No Peddlers or Solicitors" or "No Canvassers";
   (B)   Remove any yard sign, door or entrance sign that gives notice to such
person that the resident or occupant does not invite visitors;
   (C)   Fail to immediately and peacefully depart from a premise when
requested to do so by the occupant;
   (D)   Use or attempt to use any entrance other than the front or main
entrance to a dwelling;
   (E)   Fail to accurately reveal all information required to be revealed by
state law to any person requesting such information;
   (F)   Represent that the canvassing activity is endorsed by the village;
   (G)   Request a person being canvassed to retrieve something from inside his
or her home which requires him or her to leave the front door; or
   (H)   Request a person being canvassed to allow him or her to enter the
person's residence.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.12 HOURS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   No person shall engage in peddling, solicitation or canvassing in
residential areas prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m. or sunset, whichever is
earlier, Monday through Friday.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.13 RECORDS OF LICENSES.
   The Village Clerk shall file with the Jackson County Sheriff's Department a
copy of each approved application and the Jackson County Sheriff’s Department
shall report to the Village Clerk any complaints against any license holder and
any convictions, pleas or other findings of responsibility for violations of
this chapter. The Village Clerk shall keep a record of all such complaints and
violations.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a $500 fine.
(Ord. 07192022.1, passed 7-19-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Firearms, air guns and sling shots
   
130.02   Schools
   
130.03   Disorderly persons or animals
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 FIREARMS, AIR GUNS AND SLING SHOTS.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person or persons to use or
have in his or her possession without a permit or statutory authority, within
the village or on school property, a loaded firearm, air gun, BB gun, pellet
gun or slingshot. Any police officer shall have the authority, and it shall be
his or her duty, to confiscate any gun or slingshot used or possessed in
violation of this section. A person with a permit or statutory authority may be
exempt.
   (B)   No person shall permit a child or minor under his or her control and
custody to have possession of a loaded firearm, air gun, BB gun, pellet gun or
slingshot. Any police officer shall have the authority, and it shall be his or
her duty, to confiscate any gun or slingshot used or possessed by a child or
minor that he or she observes in possession of the firearm.
   (C)   No person shall discharge any weapon or firearm within the village,
except in connection with a regularly scheduled educational, recreational or
training program under adequate supervision, or in connection with the
performance of lawful duties of law enforcement, or with the protection of
person or property when confronted with deadly force.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 12, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 SCHOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall damage, destroy or deface any public school building
or any building occupied by any public school, or the ground, outbuildings,
fences, trees or other appurtenances or fixtures belonging thereto, in the
village.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or maliciously make, or assist in making,
any noise, disturbance or improper diversion by which the peace, quietude or
good order of any public school in the village is disturbed.
   (C)   No person shall use profane, indecent or immoral language, or indulge
in indecent or immoral conduct, in any building or on any property adjacent to
any building in the village occupied as a public school.
   (D)   Any person found to be creating a disturbance in any public school or
on the surrounding school grounds in the village shall leave immediately when
so directed by the principal, or by any other person designated by the
principal.
   (E)   No person who is not a regularly enrolled student, or teacher, or
other employee shall enter and remain in any school building or on any
surrounding school grounds in the village for any reason whatever unless the
person has received permission from the principal, or other person designated
by the principal, to be in any such public school building or on those school
grounds.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 13, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY PERSONS OR ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISORDERLY PERSON. Any person who engages in conduct prohibited by this
section.
      PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, association, corporation, firm
or other entity or institution.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, sidewalk, public building, any
place of business during the time in which it is open to the public or
frequented by the public, or any portion thereof, and any other place or
portion thereof which is open to public view or to which the public has access.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Grass Lake.
      VILLAGE CODE. The Village of Grass Lake Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Property offenses. No person shall:
      (1)   Enter or remain upon the property of another after having been
forbidden to do so by the owner, occupant or person lawfully in charge of that
property;
      (2)   Trespass on the lands or property of another without permission;
      (3)   Willfully, wantonly or recklessly damage, destroy, alter or deface
public property, or the property of any other person, without the express
permission of the owner of that property;
      (4)   Dump, deposit or place any filth, garbage, refuse or waste material
on the property of another person without the specific permission of the owner
of the property; or
      (5)   Litter upon the property of any other person.
   (C)   Offenses against government order. No person shall:
      (1)   Knowingly and willfully engage in any physical or verbal contact
which hinders, opposes, obstructs, impedes or resists any law enforcement
officer or other public official or employee of the village in the performance
of his or her official duties;
      (2)   Knowingly or willfully cause or attempt to cause, by intimidation,
coercion, force, threat of force, inducement, enticement, invitation or
encouragement, any person to interfere with:
         (a)   School activities or business; or
         (b)   Village officials, employees or agents while engaged in
performing services on behalf of the village.
      (3)   Knowingly and willfully furnish any law enforcement officer or
other public official or employee of the village with a false name, address,
age or date of birth, or with any false or misleading information, in
connection with the investigation of the commission of any violation of any
local, state or federal law;
      (4)   Knowingly and willfully make or furnish to any law enforcement
officer or other public official or employee of the village, while the officer,
official or employee is acting in his or her official capacity, a false,
fictitious or misleading report or the purported commission of any violation of
any local, state or federal law;
      (5)   Impersonate, attempt to impersonate, falsely pretend to be or hold
himself or herself out without due authority as a law enforcement officer or
other public official or employee of the village;
      (6)   Conceal knowledge of the actual commission of a violation of this
chapter from a court or from a law enforcement officer investigating the
violation. This division (C)(6) shall not be interpreted to conflict with the
right of any person to not be a witness against himself or herself;
      (7)   Willfully fail to obey the command of any law enforcement officer
to stop or halt, provided that the officer identifies himself or herself as a
law enforcement officer and provides or offers to provide identification as
such, and provided that a law enforcement officer is attempting to apprehend
such person for a violation of any local, state or federal law;
      (8)   Willfully fail to obey the command of any law enforcement officer
or other authorized representative of the village to leave a public park,
playground, public property, public building, boulevard, swimming pool or
recreation area when ordered to do so by the officer or representative; or
      (9)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by engaging in a disturbance,
fight, quarrel or altercation in a public place.
   (D)   Miscellaneous offenses. No person shall:
      (1)   Loiter in any public building, or in any other building or premises
owned by another person, after having been requested to leave by the lawful
owner or occupant or a representative of the owner or occupant; or
      (2)   Any person who is on roller skates or who is riding on, or by means
of, a coaster, bicycle, toy vehicle, skateboard or similar device, and who
conducts himself or herself upon any public sidewalk, crosswalk or other public
place in a careless or negligent manner likely to endanger any person or
property, shall be deemed a disorderly person.
   (E)   Breach of the peace offenses. No person shall disturb the public peace
and quiet by loud or boisterous conduct or noise.
   (F)   Animal control nuisances. No person shall:
      (1)   Permit any dog, cat or other pet owned or controlled by such person
to run loose or be at large outside the boundaries of the property owned or
leased by the owner of the pet (or on property upon which the owner of the pet
has permission to permit the pet to run free or be at large) unless the pet is
on a leash held by a person walking the pet;
      (2)   Permit any dog owned or controlled by that person to bark, yelp,
howl or produce any other noise which is excessive or would unreasonably
disturb the peace of other persons or persons residing on the adjoining or
nearby properties; or
      (3)   Permit a dog owned or controlled by that person to engage in
prolonged barking, howling or yelping for a period of 15 minutes or longer, and
where such noise can be heard beyond the boundary lines of the property on
which the dog is located.
   (G)   Exemption. This section shall not apply to actions engaged in by any
official or employee of the village or other law enforcement official which is
undertaken in the performance of his or her official duties and which is not
otherwise unlawful.
   (H)   Enforcement. The provisions of this section may be enforced by any
village official, Grass Lake Charter Township police officer, state police
officer or County Sheriff (or Deputy).
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any provision of this chapter is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine not to
exceed $500 in accordance with the general penalty provisions in §
10.99 of the village code or as amended. In addition to a civil fine, a person
or entity responsible for a municipal civil infraction for a violation of this
chapter may be ordered to pay any and all indirect and direct costs incurred by
the village in connection with the violation including attorneys fees and/or
may be subject to injunctive relief entered by a court of competent
jurisdiction intended to compel compliance with the village code. The village
may also enforce violations of this chapter by civil actions for injunctive or
other relief provided by law or by issuance of municipal civil infraction
notices. Every day a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a separate violation. Violations of this chapter include any act
prohibited by this chapter, made or declared unlawful by this chapter, and any
omissions or failure to act in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 12, passed 2-15-1994; Ord. 13, passed 2-15-1994)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES/EQUIPMENT
      
152.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
153.   LAND DIVISION
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
State Construction Code; Building Code
   
150.01   Code adoption
   
150.02   Title
   
150.03   Enforcement agency
   
150.04   Fee
   
150.05   Appeals
   
150.06   Conflicting provisions
Dilapidated Buildings
   
150.20   Name
   
150.21   Regulations
   
150.22   Notice of hearing
Abandoned Residential Properties
   
150.35   Purpose
   
150.36   Definitions
   
150.37   Registration
   
150.38   Registration information
   
150.39   Registration and administrative fee
   
150.40   Recovery of fees
   
150.41   Securing structures
   
150.42   Right of entry and inspection
   
150.43   Maintenance requirements
   
150.44   Reuse and occupancy
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   Appendix A:   Abandoned Residential Property Registration Form
STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE; BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 CODE ADOPTION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, being MCL 125.1501 et
seq., the village hereby elects to assume responsibility for the administration
and enforcement of Public Act 230 of 1972, being MCL 125.1501 et seq., as
amended, and enforce the state’s Construction Code, including the Building
Code, Admin. Code, R. 408.30401 et seq., R 408.3500 et seq., R 408.30551 et
seq., and R 408.31059 et seq., within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 5, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 150.02 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known as the “Building Code of the Village of
Grass Lake,” hereinafter referred to as “this Code.” A copy of the Code is on
file in the office of the Village Clerk, 119 North Lake Street, Grass Lake,
Michigan.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 5, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 150.03 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
   The village hereby designates the Village Building Inspector as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibilities of the village under this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 5, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 150.04 FEE.
   A fee for each plan examination, building permit and inspection shall be
paid in accordance with the fees adopted by the village.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 5, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 150.05 APPEALS.
   A Construction Board of Appeals for the village is created as set out in §
30.04 of this code. Appeals shall be heard within 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 5, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 150.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All ordinances, resolutions or orders, or parts thereof, in conflict with
the provisions of this subchapter are, to the extent of the conflict, hereby
repealed.
(Prior Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 5, passed 4-6-1998)
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 NAME.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the “Grass Lake Dilapidated
Building Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 150.20)
§ 150.21 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All buildings and parts thereof, including, but not limited to,
trailers and mobile homes, erected on or before the effective date of this
subchapter shall be completed and fully and permanently enclosed within one
year from that date, or in the alternative, shall be torn down and removed and
any excavation thereunder filled in to grade level.
   (B)   All buildings and parts thereof, including, but not limited to,
trailers and mobile homes, thereafter erected shall be fully enclosed, in
accordance with the building permit issued thereof, within one year from the
issuance of the permit or the commencement of the construction, whichever shall
first occur. This regulation shall not apply to the construction of large
buildings containing more than 100,000 square feet of first-floor space.
   (C)   (1)   No building or structure, including, but not limited to,
trailers and mobile homes, whether now existing or hereafter erected, shall be
left in a dangerous or hazardous condition by virtue of disrepair,
depreciation, damage by fire, collapse or act of God, or by virtue of any other
cause, but shall be forthwith repaired or rehabilitated and the dangerous or
hazardous condition removed by the owner or occupant thereof, or in the
alternative, torn down and removed and excavation thereafter filled to grade
level.
      (2)   No building so damaged or destroyed to such an extent that the cost
of repair and rehabilitation to place it in a safe, sound and sanitary
condition exceeds 75% of the assessed valuation of the building at the time the
repairs or rehabilitation are to be made shall be repaired or rehabilitated
unless it is made to comply in all respects with the provisions of all village
ordinances governing the building.
      (3)   Any building so damaged or destroyed to such an extent that the
cost of repair and rehabilitation to place it in a safe, sound and sanitary
condition exceed 100% of the assessed valuation at the time when the repairs or
rehabilitation are to be made shall be deemed unfit for human habitation and
shall be immediately vacated and, unless made to comply with all the provisions
of the Village Building Code, shall be demolished and removed.
   (D)   Whenever it shall be certified by the Building Inspector or County
Health Officer that a building is infected with contagious disease or is unfit
for human habitation, or is dangerous to life or health by reason of want of
repair or of defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting, ventilation or the
construction of the same, or by reason of the existence on the premises of a
nuisance likely to cause sickness among the occupants of the building, the
Building Inspector or Village President may issue an order requiring all
persons therein to vacate the building within not less than 24 hours nor more
than ten days for the reasons to be mentioned in that order. In case such an
order is not complied with within the time specified, the Building Inspector or
Village President may cause the dwelling to be vacated. Whenever the Building
Inspector or Health Officer is satisfied that the danger from the building has
ceased to exist, or that it is fit for human habitation, he or she may revoke
that order.
   (E)   Whenever any building or premises, or the plumbing, sewage, drainage,
lighting or ventilation thereof, is, in the opinion of the Building Inspector
or County Health Officer, dangerous or detrimental to life or health, the
officer may declare that the same constitutes a health or safety hazard, or
both.
(Prior Code, § 150.21) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Upon making of a determination of hazard, the Village Clerk shall send
a notice of hearing to the owner or occupants by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by personal service. The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the premises, a complete detail of the conditions which
are deemed to constitute the hazard;
      (2)   Explain the nature of the proceedings which are to determine
whether or not the building is a nuisance and/or hazard and what action shall
be taken; and
      (3)   Give notice of the time, place and before whom the hearing will be
afforded.
   (B)   The hearing shall be set not less than 15 days nor more than 20 days
from the date of the determination of hazard or nuisance by the Building
Inspector or County Health Officer. The hearing shall be held before the
Village Council and be held at the regular meeting place of the Council, or at
a site designated by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   At the hearing, the owner or occupant of the premises cited shall be
afforded the right to cross- examine all witnesses who testify against the
property, to testify on his or her own behalf and to produce witnesses on his
or her own accord.
   (D)   After a full consideration according to the evidence presented at the
hearing, the Council shall take a vote. A majority vote shall be required in
order to make a finding that a hazard or nuisance exists. Upon the finding, the
Village Council may order the same to be removed, suspended, altered or
otherwise improved or purified and set terms and conditions for the same.
(Prior Code, § 150.22)
ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES
§ 150.35 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Village Council to establish an
abandoned residential property registration program as a mechanism to protect
residential neighborhoods from becoming blighted through the lack of adequate
maintenance and security of abandoned properties.
§ 150.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. Any building that has been used or was
intended for use as a residential dwelling, in whole or in part, including an
accessory building, which has become vacant or abandoned for a period of at
least 28 consecutive days and which also meets at least one of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Open to casual entry or trespass;
      (2)   Fire damaged to an extent which prohibits safe human occupancy;
      (3)   Site of loitering or vagrancy;
      (4)   Demonstrates a lack of property maintenance and upkeep, as
evidenced by one or more violations of the state’s Construction Code;
      (5)   Under notice for being in violation of village ordinances;
      (6)   Secured or boarded up for at least 28 days;
      (7)   Taxes in arrears to the village for a period of time exceeding 365
days;
      (8)   Utilities disconnected or not in use;
      (9)   Under a condemnation notice or legal order to vacate;
      (10)   Structurally unsound; or
      (11)   Potential hazard or danger to persons.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate structure on the same premises as the main
residential structure the use of which would be naturally and normally
incidental to that of the main structure, whether the main structure is an
abandoned residential structure or not, such as, but not limited to, a garage,
pole barn or storage shed or building.
   OWNER. Any person with a legal or equitable ownership interest in the
structure.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A property classified as residential, as determined by
the Township Assessor.
   SECURED. A building which has all points of entry into the structure either:
      (1)   Closed by use of windows and doors which are in proper working
order, intact, without holes or broken elements and are locked; or
      (2)   Secured by exterior-grade plywood in compliance with this
subchapter.
§ 150.37 REGISTRATION.
   Owners of abandoned residential property shall register such property with
the village. The duty to register an abandoned residential property shall not
require prior notice to the owner by the village. Registration of an abandoned
residential property does not preclude the village from taking appropriate
actions to secure the property or to issue orders to repair or abate dangerous,
hazardous or unlawful conditions, or from acting to eliminate an imminent
hazard to public health and safety.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.38 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   For each abandoned residential structure, each owner shall register
with the village and provide the following information on an abandoned
residential property registration form, available from the village and as set
out in Appx. A of this chapter:
      (1)   The address of the abandoned residential property;
      (2)   The legal names of all owners of the property, the complete mailing
address of all owners and the telephone numbers of each owner, including cell
phone and mobile phone numbers;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of any local agent or
representative authorized by the owner to handle the affairs of the property;
      (4)   The reason for vacancy of the property;
      (5)   The estimated length of time the property is expected to remain
vacant; and
      (6)   Any plans for restoration, reuse or removal, with an accompanying
timeline and work schedule.
   (B)   An owner shall notify the village and file an amended form within
seven days of any change in the registration information required by this
section.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.39 REGISTRATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   (A)   An owner of an abandoned residential property which becomes blighted
through the lack of adequate maintenance and security, whether registered or
not, shall pay a monthly administrative fee, the amounts of which shall be
established by village resolution, for the time during which such property
remains in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Fees under this section shall be established to support the services
rendered by the village in the course of its duties related to abandoned
residential structures.
   (C)   The monthly administrative fee shall be paid so that it is received by
the village on or before the seventh day of each month following each month
during which the property is in violation of this subchapter for 15 days or
more.
   (D)   A late fee, in an amount to be established by the Village Council,
shall also be payable by an owner of an abandoned residential structure when
the monthly administrative fee is not timely paid.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.40 RECOVERY OF FEES.
   If all or part of the fees required by this subchapter are not paid or are
overdue, the village may recover such sums by:
   (A)   Directing the Township Assessor to add the amount due to the next tax
roll of the village as a single-lot assessment and collect said sum in the same
manner as provided by law for the collection of taxes and special assessments;
   (B)   Filing suit against the owner for entry of civil money judgment; or
   (C)   Any other means available by law.
§ 150.41 SECURING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A village order to secure an abandoned residential property shall be
complied with by the owner within 72 hours. If the securing has not been
completed or does not comply with the requirements for securing the structure
under this subchapter, the village shall secure the structure, and the village
shall bill the owner of record for all costs incurred, including service fee
and administrative costs. The amount so billed shall constitute a personal debt
of the owner and may be recovered in the same manner as permitted for the
recovery of fees under this subchapter.
   (B)   Plywood boarding shall be placed over all points of entry on an
abandoned residential structure such that all exterior openings suitable for
animal or human entry are secured as follows: on all assessable points of
entry, such shall be secured by use of exterior-grade plywood, or its
equivalent, of at least one-half inch thickness, cut to the size of the opening
and secured by the use of two-inch long screws.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.42 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   If the owner has failed to secure a property and it has been secured by the
village, the village may enter or reenter the structure to conduct necessary
inspections to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subchapter and
to determine if there are any emergency or hazardous conditions.
§ 150.43 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this subchapter shall be, in comparison to the
neighborhood standard, kept free of weeds, dry brush, dead vegetation, trash,
junk, debris, building materials, any accumulation of newspapers, circulars,
flyers and notices, except those required by federal, state or local law,
discarded personal items including, but not limited to, furniture, clothing,
large and small appliances or printed material or any other items that give the
appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (B)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior-grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior of the structure.
   (C)   Visible front and side yards shall be landscaped and maintained to the
neighborhood standard at the time registration was required. LANDSCAPE
includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges
or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or artificial turf/sod designed
specifically for residential installation. LANDSCAPE does not include weeds,
gravel, broken concrete, asphalt, decomposed granite, plastic sheeting, mulch,
indoor-outdoor carpet or any similar material.
   (D)   MAINTENANCE includes, but is not limited to, regular watering,
irrigation, cutting, pruning and mowing of required landscape and removal of
all trimmings.
   (E)   Pools and spas shall be kept in working order so the water remains
clear and free of pollutants and debris or drained and kept dry. In either
case, properties with pools and/or spas must comply with the minimum security
fencing requirements of the state.
   (F)   Adherence to this section does not relieve the beneficiary/trustee or
property owner of any obligations set forth in any covenants, conditions and
restrictions and/or homeowners’ association rules and regulations which may
apply to the property.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.44 REUSE AND OCCUPANCY.
   No abandoned residential structure shall be reoccupied until inspected and
found to be in full compliance with all applicable village codes and a
certificate of occupancy is issued by the village.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, company or corporation who
shall violate a provision of §§
150.01 to 150.06 of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the
requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter or repair a building
or structure in violation of an approved plan or directive of the Code
Official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of §§
150.01 to 150.06, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than 90 days or by a fine of
not more than $500, or by both fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   (a)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §§
150.20 to 150.22 or 150.35 to 150.44 of this code may be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of not more than $100, or in the case
of a person, by imprisonment in the County Jail not to exceed 90 days, or by
both the fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.
         (b)   In addition to the imposition of the fines and penalties, any
building which continues to violate the provisions of §§
150.20 to 150.22 or 150.35 to 150.44 of this code after the owner or occupant
has been ordered by the Village Council to make the same comply, or to demolish
or remove the building, may, in the discretion of the Village Council, be made
to comply or be demolished and removed by the Village Council or its agents and
the costs thereof collected from the owner or occupant of the premises. If the
owner or occupant refuses to pay the costs, the same may be assessed against
the property of the owner or occupant and collected in the same manner as are
taxes assessed under the general laws of the state.
         (c)   The owner or occupant who pays the costs may collect from the
person or other entity who caused the violation to exist, for the sum so
expended, in an appropriate action at law. The foregoing remedies shall be in
addition to the rights of the village to proceed at law or equity with other
appropriate and proper remedies.
(Prior Code, § 150.99)
   (C)   Failure to register an abandoned residential structure or pay the
monthly administrative fee as set out in §
150.39 of this code shall be cause for penalties to be assessed and are
criminal violations of §§
150.35 to 150.44 of this code.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-6-1998)
APPENDIX A: ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION FORM
 
   Abandoned Residential Property Registration Form
   (date)
For each abandoned residential property, each owner shall register with the
village and provide the following information on an abandoned residential
property and submit this form to the Grass Lake Village Clerk:
   1.   Address of the abandoned residential structure
      ____________________________________________________________________________
   2.   Legal names of all owners of the property, complete mailing address of
all owners, telephone
      numbers of each owner, including cell phone and mobile phone numbers
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________
   3.   Name, address and telephone number of any local agent or representative
authorized by the
      owner to handle the affairs of the property
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________
   4.   Reason for vacancy of the property
      ____________________________________________________________________________
   5.   Estimated length of time the property is expected to remain vacant
      ____________________________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________
   6.   Any plans for restoration, reuse or removal with an accompanying time
line and work schedule
      ____________________________________________________________________________
An owner shall notify the village and file an amended form within seven days of
any change in the registration information required by this form.
                                       ______________________________
                                                (Signature)
CHAPTER 151: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES/EQUIPMENT
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Parking/storage
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Includes the following:
      (1)   BOATS and BOAT TRAILERS. Includes boats, floats and rafts, plus the
normal equipment to transport the same on the highway;
      (2)   FOLDING TENT TRAILER. A canvas folding structure mounted on wheels
and designed for travel and vacation use;
      (3)   MOTORIZED HOME. A portable dwelling designed and constructed as an
integral part of a self-propelled vehicle;
      (4)   PICKUP CAMPER. A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a
pickup or truck chassis, and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable
for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses; and
      (5)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses and permanently identified as a TRAVEL TRAILER by the
manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 11, passed 2-15-1994)
§ 151.02 PARKING/STORAGE.
   Any owner of camping and recreational equipment may park or store that
equipment on single- family residential property, subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   Recreational equipment parked or stored shall not have fixed
connections to electricity, water, gas or sanitary sewer facilities, and at no
time shall this equipment be used for living or housekeeping purposes.
   (B)   If the camping and recreational equipment is parked or stored outside
of a garage, it shall be parked or stored to the rear of the front building
line of the lot. The setback requirement in the side or rear yard shall be a
minimum of three feet.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (B) above, camping and
recreational equipment may be parked anywhere on the premises for loading and
unloading purposes for a period of not more than 48 hours.
   (D)    All recreational equipment must be kept in good repair and carry a
current year’s license and/or registration.
   (E)   The parking or storage of an unoccupied MOBILE HOME, being a movable
or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its own chassis and connected
to utilities and designed without a permanent foundation for year-round living,
is specifically prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 11, passed 2-15-1994) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a term of imprisonment not to exceed
90 days, a fine of $500, or any portion thereof, or by both.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 11, passed 2-15-1994)
CHAPTER 152: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Signs authorized without a permit
   
152.04   Signs authorized with a permit
   
152.05   Sign permit requirements
   
152.06   Prohibited signs
   
152.07   Construction requirements
   
152.08   Previously existing signs
   
152.09   Appeals
   
152.10   First Amendment protection
   
152.11   Administration
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter regulates all signs in the village which are visible from
public roads, sidewalks, rights-of-way, buildings, parks and other public
places and facilities.
   (B)   The village has a tradition and reputation as a community with a rich
mix of land uses that blend into a landscape of high aesthetic quality.
Depending on their size, number and character, signs may attract or repel
visitors, affect the visual quality enjoyed daily by residents, affect the
safety of vehicular traffic and define the character of the area. Thus, these
considerations impact economic values as well as public health, safety and
welfare.
   (C)   Therefore, this chapter sets standards applicable to signs for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Maintain and enhance the visual quality (aesthetics) of the
community;
      (2)   Improve pedestrian and motorist safety by minimizing distractions
and obstacles to clear views of the road and of directional or warning signs;
      (3)   Protect and enhance economic viability by assuring that the village
will be a visually pleasant place to visit or live;
      (4)   Protect property values and private/public investments in property;
      (5)   Protect views of the natural landscape and sky;
      (6)   Avoid personal injury and property damage from structurally unsafe
signs;
      (7)   Provide businesses with effective and efficient opportunities for
identification by reducing competing demands for visual attention; and
      (8)   Must direct attention to a business or profession conducted on the
premises, or to a commodity or service sold, offered, manufactured, processed
or fabricated thereon, unless specified elsewhere in these regulations.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURE. Land and associated buildings whose primary use is to produce
crops or livestock or to provide boarding or storage facilities for
agricultural products or animals.
   COMMERCIAL/RETAIL/INDUSTRIAL/MANUFACTURING. Factories, distribution centers,
shopping centers, malls, central business districts, satellite business
developments and individually located businesses producing goods, storing goods
or offering services or goods for sale.
   DEPARTMENTS. Those village officials and/or employees who have been charged
with the responsibility of administering this chapter by resolution of the
Village Council.
   OFFICE. Dental, medical, legal, real estate and other individual
professionals or businesses whose primary source of income is provision of
services rather than sale and leasing of goods.
   OWNER. A person owning a sign.
   PERMIT. The authorization for a sign issued by the Department.
   PERSON. Any individual or entity, including a firm, partnership,
association, corporation, limited liability company or trustee, and their legal
successors and assigns.
   PROPERTY. Contiguous real estate taxed as a single parcel.
   SIGN. An object, including a structure, movable object, wall or image,
displaying any message visible to the public. Portable/movable signs, such as
those on wheeled devices or sandwich boards, may, at the discretion of the
Department, be permitted as a ground sign. Notices legally placed on public
property and removed on a daily basis are not considered SIGNS. Letters
individually painted on or attached to a face of a building that merely
identify the owner, occupant or name of the establishment and address are not
considered a SIGN.
      (1)   SIGN, ABANDONED.
         (a)   A sign which no longer advertises or identifies a business,
lessor, owner or activity conducted upon, or product available on, the premises
where the sign is displayed;
         (b)   Any sign that does not display a well-maintained message for a
consecutive 60-day period; or
         (c)   Any sign no longer fully supported by the structure designed to
support the sign for a consecutive 60-day period.
      (2)   SIGN, AWNING, CANOPY OR MARQUEE. A sign painted, stamped,
perforated or stitched, or otherwise applied, on an awning. (See image “
Various Types of Signs” below.)
      (3)   SIGN, BANNER. A sign, temporary, made of any flexible material,
such as cloth or vinyl, which is supported by a temporary or permanent
structure. (See image “
Various Types of Signs” below.)
      (4)   SIGN, DIRECTION. A sign on private property without commercial
message that gives direction, such as entrances, exits or street numbers.
      (5)   SIGN, FLASHING, ANIMATED. Any sign which, by method or manner of
illumination, flashes on or off, winks or blinks with varying light intensity,
shows motion or creates the illusion of motion, provides for a constantly
changing message or revolves in a manner to create the illusion of being on or
off.
      (6)   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign supported by one or more upright poles,
columns or braces placed in or on the ground and not attached to any building
or structure. (See image “
Various Types of Signs” below.)
      (7)   SIGN, GOVERNMENT. A sign authorized by this village, another
governmental agency, the state or the federal government.
      (8)   SIGN, GROUND MONUMENT. A sign resting directly on the ground or
supported by short poles not attached to a building or wall.
      (9)   SIGN, HISTORIC. A sign that, by its construction materials, unusual
age, prominent location, unique design or craftsmanship from another period
makes a contribution to the cultural, historic or aesthetic quality of the
village’s streetscape. HISTORIC SIGNS include ghost signs (remnants of vintage
advertisements painted on the side of a building) and signs at least 50 years
old which may no longer be advertising a current business activity.
      (10)   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign illuminated in any manner by an
artificial light source.
      (11)   SIGN, MERCHANDISE. A sign depicting any manner of merchandise
manufactured or sold inside a place of business.
      (12)   SIGN, MESSAGE BOARD. A permanently fixed sign providing for a
changing message or copy not more than once per day, illuminated or not.
      (13)   SIGN, MESSAGE ELECTRONIC. A permanently fixed sign providing for a
changing message or copy of more than once per day, but not less than every 30
seconds, by computerized or technological illumination.
      (14)   SIGN, PLACARD. A sign not exceeding two square feet which provides
notices of a public nature, such as “no trespassing” or “no hunting” signs.
      (15)   SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently affixed to the ground or
to a building, including any sign attached to or displayed on a vehicle that is
used for the express purpose of advertising a business establishment, product,
service or entertainment when that vehicle is so parked as to attract the
attention of motoring or pedestrian traffic. (See image “
Various Types of Signs” below.)
      (16)   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign affixed to any part of a building or
structure which extends beyond the building or structure by more than 12
inches.
      (17)   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected, constructed or maintained upon, or
which projects above, the roof or parapet line of a building. (See image “
Various Types of Signs” below.)
      (18)   SIGN, SANDWICH BOARD. A sidewalk-level sign of a creative nature
which expresses the unique character of a business or building, promoting
special sales and specifically designed for sidewalk traffic.
      (19)   SIGN, SPECIAL EVENTS, TEMPORARY. A sign for events such as grand
openings, vehicle shows, displays, craft shows, benefits, fund raisers,
festivals and other limited-term events of more than 24 hours.
      (20)   SIGN, WALL. A sign attached to, painted upon, placed against or
supported by the exterior surface of any building. (See image “
Various Types of Signs” below.)
      (21)   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign painted, stenciled or affixed on a window
which is visible from a right-of-way. (See image “
Various Types of Signs” below.)
Various Types of Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1094.png]
 
   WETLAND. Land that, based on soils and vegetation, has been classified as
WETLAND by a government agency.
   ZONES AND DISTRICTS. References to ZONES AND DISTRICTS are those districts
defined in the Village Zoning Ordinance. The CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT as
defined by the regulating plan and zoning map.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 152.03 SIGNS AUTHORIZED WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   Subject to other applicable requirements and permits, the following signs
are authorized without a sign permit.
   (A)   Small signs. One sign per property, not illuminated and not exceeding
three square feet in area, is allowed without a permit. Warning signs such as
“no trespass” or “beware of dog” are not limited to one per property but are
limited to not more than two small signs in any 500 linear feet on the
property. If the small sign has a temporary message, such as “home for sale,”
“garage sale,” “yard sale,” “estate sale” and similar messages, the area shall
not exceed six square feet. No small sign may exceed a height of 42 inches
above ground level, and only one like sign is permitted for each property.
These signs may carry any lawful message. Historical markers, cemetery stones
and house numbers are to be excluded from the square footage requirements.
   (B)   Governmental signs. Governmental signs do not require a permit.
   (C)   Directional signs. Directional signs do not require a permit, however:
      (1)   Only one entrance/exit directional sign is allowed per legal
driveway; and
      (2)   A directional sign may not exceed two square feet and may be
illuminated.
   (D)   Flags. Flags bearing the official design of a nation, state,
municipality, educational institution, service organization, manufacturer or
company logo do not need a permit, provided that the flagpoles to which they
are attached do not exceed 30 feet in height. The Department, in its
discretion, may require large or numerous flags to be subject to this chapter.
   (E)   Political signs. Political signs advocating or opposing candidates for
public office or an issue (referendum) to be determined by election may be
erected 60 days prior to an election, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The signs shall be erected only on private property and not in the
public rights-of-way;
      (2)   Signs cannot be placed in the vision triangle on a corner lot;
      (3)   The signs shall be not greater than six square feet in area in the
R-1, R-2, RM-1, LS, CM, MA, WS, USG and OS-1 Districts and 32 square feet in
area in the GC and LI districts;
      (4)   All such signs shall be removed 48 hours following election day,
with removal responsibility held by the property owner; and
      (5)   All such signs must be not less than 100 feet from any entrance to
a building in which a polling place is located.
   (F)   Real estate signs. One sign is permitted advertising the sale or lease
of the lot or building on the lot in residential zones, not exceeding six
square feet in area. The sign shall be removed within ten days after the sale
or closing of the property or building has occurred. One similar sign is
permitted advertising the sale or lease of a lot or building on the lot in a
commercial or industrial zone; however, the sign may be increased in size if
the area of the lot is more than 30,000 square feet, but is limited to a
maximum of 32 square feet. The following temporary real estate sign regulations
also apply:
      (1)   Temporary portable real estate directional signs, not exceeding
three square feet in area and four in number, delineating an “open house” and/
or showing a directional arrow are permitted on approach routes to an open
house only for the day of the open house;
      (2)   One on-site temporary sign identifying the builder(s)/contractor(s)
on any building or renovation site shall be limited to 32 square feet and
provide space for all contractors/subcontractors and financial institutions,
where applicable. Individual site signs by every contractor involved are
prohibited. The sign shall be removed when the construction/renovation is
complete and listed for sale or occupied. Similarly, repair and maintenance
contractors are allowed the placement of a temporary sign of six square feet on
any site where repair or maintenance services are underway, but such must be
removed when those services are complete; and
      (3)   One on-site temporary sign advertising a recorded subdivision or
development, not to exceed 32 square feet in area. The sign shall be removed
after the sale of 90% of all lots or units within said subdivision or
development.
   (G)   Warning signs. Signs exclusively devoted to warning the public of
dangerous conditions and unusual hazards, such as drop-offs, high voltage, fire
danger and explosives, are permitted. Warning signs may not exceed three square
feet.
   (H)   Historical, cultural and natural site signs. A sign erected by a
government agency which exclusively denotes a recognized historical, cultural
or natural site is permitted. This sign shall not exceed three square feet
unless otherwise provided by state or federal law. Also included are signs
that, by their construction materials, unusual age, prominent location, unique
design or craftsmanship from another period, make a contribution to the
cultural, historic or aesthetic quality of the village’s streetscape. The signs
include ghost signs and signs at least 50 years old which may no longer be
advertising a current business activity.
   (I)   Special events and banners. Temporary signs announcing public,
charitable, educational or religious functions or events can be erected 21 days
before the event, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The signs shall be erected only on private property, not in the
public rights-of-way, with the exception of those approved by the Village
Council and erected by the Village Department of Public Works.
      (2)   The signs cannot be placed in the vision triangle on a corner lot.
      (3)   The sign shall be not greater than six square feet in area in the
R-1, R-2, RM-1, LS, CM, MA, WS, USG and OS-1 Districts and 32 square feet in
area in the GC, CBD and LI Districts and on religious, educational and
registered nonprofit properties.
      (4)   All the signs shall be removed within 48 hours following the event.
   (J)   Window signs. Window signs may be placed inside the window areas of
buildings in commercial or retail zones and are limited to those windows that
abut the street and relate to the appropriate floor level. The sign area may
not exceed 25% of the area of the window. Temporary notices of time-bound
events (specific sales, community festivals and the like) are exempt from these
window sign standards.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 SIGNS AUTHORIZED WITH A PERMIT.
   The Department shall issue a permit for signs in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (A)   Commercial/retail/industrial/manufacturing wall and ground signs.
      (1)   One wall sign and one freestanding ground sign, or freestanding
monument sign, are permitted for each commercial/retail/industrial/
manufacturing property. These signs shall not exceed 10% of the area of the
front face of the building on a property or 100 square feet, whichever is less.
      (2)   A freestanding ground sign may not exceed a height of 15 feet above
the uniform finished grade to the top of the sign face and must clear nine feet
to the bottom of the sign face. Freestanding monument signs may not exceed six
feet in height from the uniform finished grade to the top of the sign face.
Unless more restrictive zoning applies, setbacks of ground signs from property
lines shall be at least equal to the height of the sign.
      (3)   Message boards may be applied to any freestanding ground sign or
freestanding monument sign; however, the total area for a message board will
reduce the total area of the signage by 50%. Similarly, gasoline service
station price signs may be applied; however, the total area for a gasoline
price sign will reduce the total area of signage by 50%.
   (B)   Multiple tenants, commercial/retail/industrial/manufacturing.
      (1)   One freestanding ground sign may be provided for multiple-tenant
buildings in the General Commercial and Light Industrial Zones and shall not
exceed one square foot of sign area per one lineal foot of building frontage
per tenant. These signs shall not exceed 200 square feet. Each tenant may also
apply a wall sign for their business identification on the building to a
maximum of 32 square feet.
      (2)   In addition, multiple-tenant buildings shall be permitted one wall
directory sign intended to identify all of the building occupants. The total
area of the directory sign shall not exceed 12 square feet, with each tenant
limited to one square foot. This sign shall be non-illuminated and shall be
mounted on the entrance door or on the wall next to the entrance.
      (3)   Message boards may not be included as part of the signage on
multiple-tenant properties.
   (C)   Central Business District.
      (1)   Within the Central Business District, signs are intended to promote
the pedestrian scale and to ensure the visual consistency between signs and the
historic character of the district. No sign shall be erected in the Central
Business District in any manner that will obstruct any architectural details of
a building.
      (2)   One projecting sign may be permitted for each first-floor business
within the Central Business District. The projecting sign may be a maximum of
12 square feet in area (each side) and shall be included in the total amount of
signs permitted for the subject building. Changeable copy shall not be
permitted as a part of projecting signs. Projecting signs must provide a clear
distance of nine feet from the sidewalk, driveway or parking lot to the bottom
edge of the sign. Projecting signs may extend over abutting sidewalks but shall
not extend over public or private roadways or parking areas unless approved by
the Department as a part of the sign permit. The leading edge of a projecting
sign shall not extend more than four feet from the face of the building that it
is attached to. The maximum height of a projecting sign shall be 15 feet from
the sidewalk to the highest part of the sign.
      (3)   Building signs are not permitted above the first floor; however,
signs are permitted in the second-story windows, only subject to the provisions
of §
152.03(J) of this code.
   (D)   Marquee, awning and canopy signs.
      (1)   Marquee, awning and canopy signs may be applied throughout the
Central Business District and the Commercial/Retail/Industrial Districts and
must be applied over doorways or windows.
      (2)   Awning signs and awnings shall be limited to three colors, with
black and white defined as colors. Awnings with graphics will be considered an
awning sign and may not exceed the allowable square footage for signage.
Marquee, awning and canopy signs may be substituted, in whole or in part, for
permitted wall signs. The total square footage of marquee signs shall be
deducted from the total permitted square footage of total wall sign area.
      (3)   Freestanding ground signs, freestanding monument signs and message
boards are not permitted in the Central Business District.
   (E)   Office wall or ground signs. One wall sign or one ground sign is
permitted for each office property. These signs shall not exceed 10% of the
area of the front face of the building on the property or 56 square feet,
whichever is less. A ground sign may not exceed a height of five feet above the
uniform finished grade. Unless more restrictive zoning applies, ground sign
setbacks shall be at least equal to the height of the sign.
   (F)   Sandwich boards.
      (1)   The village provides businesses an opportunity to provide high-
quality, creative signage which expresses the unique character of a business or
building and the sales taking place inside the building. Those signs shall be
designed and constructed so as to promote and not visually obscure the
significant architectural components of a building in the Central Business
District only.
      (2)   The following regulations apply to sandwich boards.
         (a)   Size. Maximum height shall be three feet. Maximum width shall be
two feet.
         (b)   Location. Sandwich boards shall be placed directly in front of a
building or within six inches of the building in which they are intended to
serve. One sandwich board sign will be permitted per building. Sandwich boards
are only permitted when a five-foot wide path can be maintained on the
sidewalk. Where a building does not abut the sidewalk and has grass area
available, the sandwich board should be placed behind the sidewalk or behind
the right-of-way line of the street.
         (c)   Hours. Signs may be located on the sidewalk during the hours of
operation only. Sandwich boards shall not be left on the sidewalk or outside
overnight. Failure to remove a sandwich board will result in confiscation and
all legal remedies provided for in §
152.99 of this chapter.
         (d)   Materials/design. Business owners will be free to design high-
quality creations with minimum restrictions, encouraging hand-painted, carved
and unique signage on a flat surface. Sandwich board signage is encouraged to
be visually consistent with the historic village and is intended to promote the
pedestrian scale. Sturdy material, such as finished wood (no plywood), metal or
chalkboard, is encouraged. Sandwich boards must be self-supporting, stable and
capable of withstanding occasional bumping or strong winds. It is the
responsibility of the sign owner to remove the sign during inclement weather.
The village accepts no liability for any injury or damage caused by a sidewalk
sign, and business owners are required to furnish a general liability insurance
naming the village as an additionally named insured, and such must be submitted
along with the permit application for a permit.
         (e)   Illumination. Illumination is prohibited.
         (f)   Maintenance. All sandwich boards shall be kept in good
condition.
         (g)   Permitting/review. All sandwich boards require annual submission
of an application and issuance of a permit and shall require review in the case
of a change in business ownership. Application and permit fees are to be
established by the Village Council.
   (G)   Residential neighborhood identification signs.
      (1)   A residential neighborhood (single-family subdivision, multiple-
family housing development and the like) is permitted to have one residential
neighborhood identification sign for each entrance street. The signs shall not
extend into any public right-of-way. The face of the sign shall not exceed 32
square feet. The area of the structural supporting elements shall not exceed
50% of the area of the message portion of the sign. The height of the sign may
not exceed five feet above the uniform finished grade;
      (2)   A non-dwelling use in a residential area, such as a school, a
religious facility, an institutional use, a clubhouse and the like, is
permitted to have one ground sign and one wall sign, neither of which shall
exceed 32 square feet in area. The area of the structural elements supporting a
ground sign shall not exceed 50% of the area of the message portion of the
sign. The height of a ground sign may not exceed eight feet above uniform
finished grade. The signage may include message boards, but such will reduce
the total signage at each site by 50%; and
      (3)   One on-site sign announcing a home business, boarding home, owner-
occupied bed and breakfast establishment, day care facility or funeral home (in
R-2 and RM-1 and MA districts only) with a maximum area of six square feet. The
sign shall be placed flat against the building, hung from a porch, displayed in
a window or placed in the ground parallel to the front of the dwelling within
ten feet of the front of the dwelling. Ground signs shall not exceed three feet
in height.
   (H)   Special event signs.
      (1)   Signs/banners to be used on a temporary basis for a business event
or a promotion sponsored by a business organization are permitted 21 days
before the event, at a maximum of three like events during a calendar year for
any one business (that is, grand opening, sale event, coming soon or special
sales signs/banners and the like).
      (2)   Those signs/banners are subject to the following regulations.
         (a)   Location. Signs shall be erected only on private property, not
in public rights-of-way.
         (b)   Corner lot signs. Signs cannot be placed in the vision triangle
on a corner lot.
         (c)   Size. Sign shall be not greater than three feet by eight feet,
or 24 square feet, and are permitted only in the commercial districts, with
those permitted in the residential districts at the discretion of the
Department.
         (d)   Permit. For the first event for the calendar year, the business
owner shall apply for, obtain and pay for a sign permit prior to installation.
For the second and third events of the year, the business owner shall apply for
a permit to be reviewed and approved by the Department within 48 hours. No
permit fees will be charged for these events.
         (e)   Display period. All the signs shall be removed within 48 hours
following the event. If the display period after the application is made is
less than 21 days, then the display period is reduced accordingly to whatever
time remains.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 SIGN PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Department shall administer and enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Permit. A permit is not required for “signs authorized without a
permit.” A permit must be obtained from the Department for all other existing
and new signs. Owners of existing signs that require a permit under this
chapter shall apply for a permit within 90 days of the effective date of this
chapter.
   (C)   Application. Applications for sign permits shall be made upon a form
provided by the Department for this purpose. The application shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone and, if available, fax and email of the
person applying for the permit;
      (2)   Name, address, telephone and, if available, fax and email of the
person owning the parcel upon which the sign is proposed to be placed;
      (3)   Location of the building, structure and property on which the sign
is or will be attached or erected;
      (4)   Position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings, structures,
property lines, existing or proposed rights-of-way, ordinary high water marks
of waterways and the setbacks of applicable zoning ordinances;
      (5)   Two copies of the plans and specifications. The method of
construction and/or attachment to a building or in the ground shall be
explained in the plans and specifications;
      (6)   Copy of stress sheets and calculations, if deemed necessary by the
Department, showing the structure as designed for dead load and wind pressure;
      (7)   Name, address, telephone and, if available, fax and email of the
person who has erected, or will be erecting, the sign;
      (8)   Insurance policy, as required by this chapter;
      (9)   Other information as the Department may require to show compliance
with this chapter and any other applicable laws and ordinances, including the
time frame for all temporary signs or banners as provided for in §
152.04(H) of this code (that is, 21-day time period);
      (10)   The seal or certificate of a registered structural or civil
engineer, when required by the Department;
      (11)   The zoning district in which the sign is to be placed; and
      (12)   A statement that: “Any change in the information on this
application, such as change of address, shall be submitted to the Department
within seven days after the change.”
   (D)   Insurance certificates. The applicant for a sign permit may be
required by the Department to furnish a certificate of insurance providing
public liability and property damage insurance which covers the installation
and maintenance of any sign.
   (E)   Permit fees. Permit fees for signs shall be established by the
governing body of this municipality. The permit fees must relate to the cost of
issuing the permit and may vary based on the size, type and height of the
signs.
   (F)   False information. A person providing false information under this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and not eligible to apply for a permit
under this chapter for 12 months from the date the Department determines false
information was presented.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   Signs that are not expressly listed as permitted in this chapter are
prohibited. The following limitations, obligations and prohibitions apply to
all signs.
   (A)   Any sign for which a permit has not been issued and which is not a
“sign authorized without a permit” is prohibited.
   (B)   Roof signs are prohibited.
   (C)   Inflatable signs and tethered balloons are prohibited.
   (D)   No portion of a privately owned sign or its supporting structures,
such as poles or cables, shall be placed on or within the air space above
publicly owned property, a public right-of-way (such as a street, sidewalk or
waterway) or a proposed public right-of-way, except those projecting signs
permitted by §
152.04(A) of this code.
   (E)   Cutting or killing vegetation growing on public rights-of-way (or
below the ordinary high water mark of navigable streams) to enhance visibility
of a sign is prohibited.
   (F)   Signs which imitate traffic signals, traffic-direction signs or
similar traffic-control devices are prohibited.
   (G)   Merchandise signs advertising all manner of product inside the
business establishment, whether manufactured or available for retail, are
prohibited for installation outside the building either on the building or
light poles, with the exception of merchandise advertising that may be a part
of a special event banner or temporary sign provided for in §
152.04(F) and (G) of this code.
   (H)   A revolving sign or signs containing flashing, intermittent and moving
or revolving parts or text are prohibited.
   (I)   A sign (other than a traffic sign installed by a governmental entity)
shall not simulate or imitate the size, lettering or design of any traffic sign
in a manner so as to mislead or confuse the public.
   (J)   Any sign on a motor vehicle, trailer, farm implement or other mobile
equipment which is parked in a position visible to traffic on a public road,
waterway or parking area for a period longer than six days in a 60-day period
is prohibited. However, signs permanently painted, magnetically attached or
otherwise displayed upon a vehicle licensed and operating on the public streets
and highways identifying the owner’s occupation, livelihood or employment shall
be permitted.
   (K)   Signs shall not be placed so as to obstruct the visibility of
pedestrians and motorists at intersections and driveways.
   (L)   Permanently affixed or temporary off-premises signs and billboards are
prohibited, with the exception of those special event and temporary banners and
signs provided for in §
152.03(I) of this code.
   (M)   The following signs are expressly prohibited:
      (1)   Signs affixed to trees, rocks, shrubs or similar natural features
and signs affixed to light poles, utility poles or other supporting members in
the right-of-way;
      (2)   Any sign or sign structure which is structurally unsafe and
constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation and abandonment or is not kept in good repair, as defined in the
definition of SIGN, ABANDONED in §
152.02 of this code; and
      (3)   Any sign or other advertising structure containing any obscene,
indecent or immoral matter.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Codes. All signs shall conform to the latest edition of the applicable
building codes and electrical codes.
   (B)   Fastenings. All signs must remain safe and secure during the period of
use. All parts of the signs, including bolts and cables, shall remain painted
and free of corrosion.
   (C)   Fire escapes. A sign may not obstruct a fire escape.
   (D)   Lighting and illumination. Illuminated signs shall be illuminated
under the following guidelines.
      (1)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than electrical means and all
wiring shall satisfy state electrical codes.
      (2)   The light from illuminated signs shall be shielded at its source in
a manner that will not shine light on adjacent properties or onto abutting
public streets.
      (3)   Illumination from all signs shall not exceed three foot-candles at
a distance of 15 feet from the sign, whether elevated or at ground level.
   (E)   Identification. All signs for which a permit is required and applied
for shall identify the name and operating telephone number of the person
responsible for the sign on the permit application.
   (F)   Proximity to electrical conductors. Signs and all supporting
structures shall be no closer to electrical utilities than is permitted by
applicable codes. No sign, including cables and supports, shall, in any event,
be within six feet of any electrical conductor, electrical light pole, electric
street lamp, traffic light or other public utility pole.
   (G)   Sanitation. Property surrounding any ground sign shall be maintained
in a clean and sanitary condition. It shall be free from weeds, rubbish and
flammable material.
   (H)   Landscaping. The area beneath and around a sign shall be landscaped
with plants, ground cover and materials so as to complement the site and
integrate the sign with buildings, parking areas, surrounding vegetation and
natural features of the landscape.
   (I)   Height and setbacks. Unless otherwise specifically stated, a
freestanding sign shall be set back a distance equal to the height of the sign.
Freestanding signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet in the GC and OS-
1 districts. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 15 feet to the top of the sign
face and shall clear a minimum of eight feet in height to the bottom of the
sign face.
   (J)   Computation of area. The area of a sign face (which is also the sign
area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face) shall be computed by
means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle or combination
thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing, representation,
emblem or other display, together with any material or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the
sign from the backdrop of the structure against which it is placed, but not
including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence or wall when
the fence or wall otherwise meets Zoning Ordinance regulations and is clearly
incidental to the display itself. Where a sign has two or more faces, the area
of all faces shall be included in determining the total area of the sign.
   (K)   Computation of height.
      (1)   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component
of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower of:
         (a)   Existing grade prior to construction; or
         (b)   The newly established grade after construction, exclusive of any
filling, berming, mounding or excavating solely for the purpose of locating the
sign.
      (2)   In cases where the normal grade cannot reasonably be determined,
sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the
normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest
point of the crown of a public street or the grade of the land at the principal
entrance to the principal structure on the zoning lot, whichever is lower.
   (L)   Responsibility for compliance. The owner of the property on which a
sign is placed and the person maintaining the sign are each fully responsible
for the condition and the maintenance of the sign and the area around the sign.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 PREVIOUSLY EXISTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Intent. This chapter is intended to encourage the eventual elimination
of signs which do not comply with this chapter. The elimination of previously
existing signs which are not in compliance with this chapter is important to
the purpose stated in §
152.01 of this code. However, it is also the intent of this chapter to avoid
unreasonable invasion of property rights while accomplishing the ultimate
elimination of preexisting signs which do not conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance. A sign not complying with this chapter but in place on the
effective date of this chapter shall be brought into compliance with this
chapter if it is practical to do so, as determined by the owner of the sign.
   (C)   Continuance.
      (1)   A nonconforming sign may be continued if it is maintained in good
condition.
      (2)   (a)   It shall not, however, be replaced by another nonconforming
sign.
         (b)   It may not be structurally altered or modified, except to bring
it into conformance with current regulations.
         (c)   It may not be reestablished after damage or destruction if the
Department determines that the estimated cost of repair exceeds 50% of the
estimated replacement cost. However, it may be replaced if intentionally
damaged or destroyed by person(s) who are proven to be unconnected to the owner
(s) of the sign.
   (D)   Nuisance.
      (1)   An unsafe or abandoned sign is declared a public nuisance, which
shall be abated by the owner within ten days of receiving notice from the
Department.
      (2)   After 15 days, the sign may be removed by the Department, and the
cost of the removal shall be paid by the owner of the property on which the
sign is located.
      (3)   If payment is not remitted within 30 days of the submission of an
invoice, the unpaid cost may be added to the tax bill applying to the property
on which the sign is located and collected in the same manner as are other ad
valorem taxes.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from a determination of the Department may be made in writing
directly to the Village Council, which shall hear the appeal within 60 days.
   (B)   An application for appeal stays all removal orders until the Village
Council renders its decision.
   (C)   Relief may be granted if all of the following criteria are fulfilled.
      (1)   The circumstance is not of the applicant’s making.
      (2)   The applicant’s request is a result of unusual site conditions.
      (3)   The applicant’s request would not create a detriment to the
neighborhood or reduce property value.
      (4)   The applicant’s request is consistent with the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
      (5)   Without relief, the applicant would experience a hardship and/or
practical difficulty which would make strict compliance unreasonable and
burdensome.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 152.10 FIRST AMENDMENT PROTECTION.
   Any sign allowed under this chapter may contain, in lieu of any other text,
any otherwise lawful noncommercial message that does not direct attention to a
business operated for a profit or to a commodity or service for sale and that
complies with all other provisions of this chapter, including the specific
provisions for signage in the land-use category on which the sign is placed.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 152.11 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Administration. The Village Council shall appoint by resolution
personnel to administer and enforce the terms and conditions of this chapter
and all other provisions relating to signs.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Department shall issue permits as required by this chapter.
      (2)   The Department shall also ensure signs comply with this chapter and
any other applicable law.
      (3)   The Department shall also enforce the requirement that all signs
properly comply with this chapter by procuring a permit.
      (4)   The Department shall make inspections as may be necessary and shall
initiate appropriate action to enforce compliance with this chapter and other
applicable laws.
   (C)   Department powers. The Department shall have the power and authority
to administer and enforce this chapter. Included among those powers are the
following specific powers.
      (1)   Every sign for which a permit is required shall be subject to the
inspection and approval of the Department, including verification of the use of
the property, and thus the standards that apply to signage. When deemed
advisable, a sign may be inspected at the point of manufacture.
      (2)   Upon presentation of proper identification to the sign owner or
owner’s agent, the Department may enter the sign area for purposes of
inspecting the sign, sign structure and any fasteners securing the sign to a
building or support.
         (a)   In cases of emergency where imminent hazards to persons or
property are known to exist and where the sign owner, or owner’s agent, is not
readily available, the Department may enter the sign area for purposes of
inspection or remediation.
         (b)   When on private property, the Department shall observe rules and
regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire protection. If the
Department is denied admission to inspect any sign, inspection shall be made
only under authority of a warrant issued by a court of proper jurisdiction.
         (c)   When applying for the warrant, the Department shall submit an
affidavit setting forth a belief that a violation of this chapter exists with
respect to a particular sign and the reasons for forming this belief.
         (d)   The affidavit shall designate the place and name of the person
believed to own or possess the sign.
         (e)   If the court finds probable cause exists for the search of the
sign and supporting structures, then a warrant authorizing the search shall be
issued.
         (f)   The warrant shall describe the property with sufficient
certainty to identify the same.
         (g)   The warrant shall constitute authority for the Department to
enter the sign area and to inspect the property.
      (3)   Upon issuance of a stop order from the Department, work on any sign
that is being conducted in any manner contrary to this chapter shall be
immediately stopped. This notice and order shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the property, the sign owner or the person performing the
work. The stop order shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
      (4)   The Department has the authority to deny or revoke any permit
authorized by this chapter if the sign violates this chapter or another law,
provided that the Department shall offer the sign owner an opportunity to be
heard.
         (a)   The person whose permit is under consideration shall be given at
least ten days’ written notice of the time, place and reason for the hearing.
         (b)   The sign owner and/or person identified in the permit shall be
permitted to present relevant facts and legal argument concerning the pending
permit denial or permit revocation.
         (c)   Following this hearing, the Department shall consider the merits
of the case and shall present a written decision.
      (5)   If the Department has determined that a violation has occurred, the
owner shall have ten days to bring the sign into compliance or remove the sign.
If, however, the Department believes the health, safety or welfare of the
citizens is endangered by any violation of this chapter, the Department may
immediately revoke any sign permit.
      (6)   A sign installed after the effective date of this chapter and not
conforming to this chapter shall be removed by the owner. The sign owner shall
not be entitled to compensation for the sign removal and shall reimburse the
Department for any cost incurred in connection with the removal.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. Each day subsequent to the ten-day period allowed for corrective
action, as set out in §
152.11 of this code, shall constitute a separate violation. In addition, the
Village Attorney is authorized to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction
for the relief, either legal or equitable, or both, as is appropriate in order
to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. 39, passed 1-19-2010)
CHAPTER 153: LAND DIVISION
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Prior approval requirement for land division
   
153.05   Application for land division approval
   
153.06   Procedure for review of applications for land division approval
   
153.07   Standards for approval of land divisions
   
153.08   Consequences of noncompliance with land division approval
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Grass Lake Land
Division Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the state’s
Land Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being MCL 560.101 et seq., as
amended, formerly known as the Subdivision Control Act), to prevent the
creation of parcels of property which do not comply with applicable ordinances
and the Act, to minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly
development of the community and to otherwise provide for the health, safety
and welfare of the residents and property owners of the village by establishing
reasonable standards for prior review and approval of land divisions within the
village.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or LAND DIVISION ACT. The state’s Land Division Act (Public Act 288 of
1967, being MCL 560.101 et seq.)
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination of any of them that holds ownership interest in the land, whether
recorded or not.
   DIVIDED or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, for the purpose
of sale or lease of more than one year or of building development that results
in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres, or the equivalent, and that
satisfies the requirements of MCL 560.108 and 560.109 of the state’s Land
Division Act.
   EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres, or the equivalent;
provided all resulting parcels are accessible for vehicular travel and
utilities from existing public roads through existing adequate roads or
easements, or through areas owned by the owner of the parcel that can provide
such access.
   FORTY ACRES OR EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY. The legislative body of the Village of Grass Lake (the
Village Council).
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 153.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR LAND DIVISION.
   Land in the village shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the Village Zoning Administrator, or other official designated by
the governing body, in accordance with this chapter and the state’s Land
Division Act; provided that the following shall be exempted from this
requirement:
   (A)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant to
the state’s Land Division Act;
   (B)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
state’s Land Division Act; and
   (C)   An exempt split, as defined in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.04) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 153.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Village Clerk, for
review and approval by the Village Zoning Administrator, of a proposed land
division before making any division either by deed, land contract or lease for
more than one year or for building development:
   (A)   (1)   A completed application form on such form as may be provided by
the village;
      (2)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided;
      (3)   A tentative parcel map of the land proposed to be divided, prepared
pursuant to the survey map requirements of Public Act 132 of 1970, being
MCL 54.211, as amended, by a land surveyor licensed by the state, and showing
the dimensions and legal descriptions of the existing parcel and the parcels
proposed to be created by the division(s), the location of all existing
structures and other land improvements and the accessibility of the parcels for
vehicular traffic and utilities from existing public roads;
      (4)   Proof that all standards of the state’s Land Division Act and this
chapter have been met; and
      (5)   If the transfer of division rights are proposed in the land
transfer, detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed
division rights transfer.
   (B)   Unless a division created a parcel which is acknowledged and declared
to be “not buildable” under §
153.08 of this code, all divisions shall result in “buildable” parcels
containing sufficient “buildable” area outside of unbuildable wetlands, flood
plains and other areas where buildings are prohibited therefrom, and with
sufficient area to comply with all required setback provisions, minimum floor
areas, off-street parking spaces, on-site sewage disposal and water well
locations (where public water and sewer service is not available) and the
maximum allowed area coverage of buildings and structures on the site; and
   (C)   The fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of the
Village Council for land division reviews, pursuant to this chapter, to cover
the costs of review of the application and administration of this chapter and
the state’s Land Division Act.
(Prior Code, § 153.05) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 153.06 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a land division application package, the Village Clerk
shall forthwith submit the same to the Village Zoning Administrator for a
review and decision. The Zoning Administrator shall approve, or approve with
reasonable conditions to assure compliance with applicable ordinances and the
protection of public health, safety and general welfare, or disapprove the land
division applied for within 45 days after receipt of the application package
conforming to this chapter’s requirements and shall promptly notify the
applicant of the decisions and the reasons for any denial. If the application
package does not conform to this chapter’s requirements and the state’s Land
Division Act, the Zoning Administrator shall return the same to the applicant
for completion and refiling in accordance with this chapter and the state’s
Land Division Act.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Zoning
Administrator may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the
Village Council, which shall consider and resolve the appeal by a majority vote
at its next regular meeting or session, affording sufficient time for a 20-day
written notice to the applicant (and appellant, where other than the applicant)
of the time and date of the meeting and appellate hearing.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall maintain an official record of all approved
and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (D)   The village and its officers and employees shall not be liable for
approving a land division if building permits for construction on the parcels
are subsequently denied because of inadequate water supply, sewage disposal
facilities or otherwise, and any notice of approval shall include a statement
to this effect.
(Prior Code, § 153.06) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 153.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   A proposed land division shall be approved if the following criteria
are met.
      (1)   All the parcels to be created by the proposed land division(s)
fully comply with the applicable lot yard and area requirements of the Village
Zoning Ordinance, including, but not limited to, minimum lot frontage/width,
minimum road frontage, minimum lot area, maximum lot coverage and minimum
setbacks for existing buildings/structures.
      (2)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all requirements of the
state’s Land Division Act and this chapter.
      (3)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate
accessibility, or an area available therefor, to a public road for public
utilities and emergency and other vehicles not less than the requirements of
the Village Zoning Ordinance or this chapter. In determining adequacy of
accessibility, ordinance standards applicable to plats shall also apply as a
minimum standard whenever a parcel or tract is proposed to be divided to create
four or more parcels.
      (4)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the division
does not exceed a four-to-one (4:1) ratio, exclusive of access roads, easements
or non-buildable parcels created under §
153.08 of this code and parcels added to contiguous parcels that result in all
involved parcels complying with the ratio.
   (B)   The permissible depth of a parcel created by a land division shall be
measured within the boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road right-of-
way to the most remote boundary line point of the parcel from the point of
commencement of the measurement. The permissible minimum width shall be as
defined in the Village Zoning Ordinance for the zone in which the division is
proposed.
(Prior Code, § 153.07) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 153.08 CONSEQUENCES OF NONCOMPLIANCE WITH LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any parcel created in noncompliance with this chapter shall not be
eligible for any building permits or zoning approvals, such as special land use
approval or site plan approval, and shall not be recognized as a separate
parcel on the assessment roll. In addition, violation of this chapter shall
subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement actions set forth in §
153.99 of this code and as may otherwise be provided by law.
   (B)   The village shall further have the authority to initiate injunctive
and other relief to prevent any violation or continuance of any violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any unlawful division or split shall also be voidable at the option of
the purchaser and shall subject the seller to the forfeiture of all
consideration received or pledged therefor, together with any damages sustained
by the purchaser recoverable in an action at law.
(Prior Code, § 153.08) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall not be recognized as a land division on the village tax roll or
assessment roll until the assessing officer refers the suspected violation or
potential nonconformity to the County Prosecuting Attorney and gives written
notice of the referral to the person requesting the division and the person
suspected of the violation or potential nonconformity. In addition, the
assessing officer shall give written notice of the suspected violation or
potential nonconformity to the Department of Consumer and Industry Services.
The village shall further have the authority to initiate injunctive or other
relief to prevent any violation or continuance of any violation of this
chapter. Any division of land violation of this chapter shall further not be
eligible for any zoning or building permit for any construction or improvement
thereto.
   (B)   In addition, any person, firm or corporation who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed to be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction, as defined by state statute, which shall be punishable by a
civil fine of not more than $500, along with costs that may include all
expenses, direct and indirect, that the village has incurred in connection with
the municipal infraction. In no case, however, shall costs of less than $9 nor
more than $500 be ordered. A violator of this chapter shall also be subject to
additional sanctions and judicial orders as authorized under state law.
   (C)   Pursuant to § 267 of the Land Division Act (being MCL 560.267), an
unlawful division or split shall also be voidable at the option of the
purchaser and shall subject the seller to the forfeiture of all consideration
received or pledged therefor, together with any damages sustained by the
purchaser recoverable in an action of law.
(Prior Code, § 153.99) (Ord. 28, passed 10-20-1997; Ord. 98-1, passed 7-6-1998)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Enacting clause
   
154.002   Title
   
154.003   Purpose
   
154.004   Scope
   
154.005   Definitions
   
154.006   Effective date
Nonconformities
   
154.020   General provisions
   
154.021   Nonconforming uses of land
   
154.022   Nonconforming structures
   
154.023   Nonconforming uses of structures
   
154.024   Change of tenancy or ownership
   
154.025   Nonconforming lots
   
154.026   District boundary changes
Zoning Districts
   
154.040   Zoning districts
   
154.041   Maps
   
154.042   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.043   District regulations
Village Form-Based Code
   
154.055   Statement of purpose
   
154.056   Regulating plan and listing of districts
   
154.057   Use regulations
   
154.058   Dimensional requirements
   
154.059   Building design requirements
   
154.060   Nonresidential site design requirements
   
154.061   Streetscape requirements
Use Standards for All Zoning Districts
   
154.075   Residential uses
   
154.076   Retail and services
   
154.077   Auto services
   
154.078   Lodging and restaurants
   
154.079   Office and financial
   
154.080   Medical and care facilities, senior assisted living
   
154.081   Recreation and entertainment
   
154.082   Civic
   
154.083   Industrial
Residential Zoning Districts
   
154.095   Statement of purpose
   
154.096   Table of uses
   
154.097   Area, yard, height and bulk requirements
MU-1, Municipal Utilities District
   
154.110   Statement of purpose
   
154.111   Principal permitted uses
   
154.112   Conditional uses
   
154.113   Area, yard, height and bulk requirements
PUD, Planned Unit Development Overlay District
   
154.140   Statement of purpose
   
154.141   Location of the PUD Overlay Zoning District
   
154.142   PUD permitted uses
   
154.143   PUD regulations
   
154.144   PUD ownership
   
154.145   Project design standards
   
154.146   Procedure for PUD review and approval
   
154.147   PUD applications
   
154.148   PUD conditions
   
154.149   Phasing and commencement of construction
   
154.150   Effect of approval of PUD
   
154.151   PUD fees
Supplemental Regulations
   
154.165   Purpose
   
154.166   Outdoor storage of materials
   
154.167   Visibility at intersections
   
154.168   Fences
   
154.169   Temporary use
   
154.170   Essential services
   
154.171   Curb cuts and driveways
   
154.172   Natural disasters
   
154.173   Sign regulations
   
154.174   Private roads
   
154.175   Solar energy systems
   
154.176   Emergency temporary dwellings
Site Plan Review and Approval
   
154.185   Purpose of site plan review
   
154.186   Buildings, structures and uses requiring site plan
   
154.187   Application and fee for site plan review
   
154.188   Planning Commission review of site plan
   
154.189   Required data for detailed site plan
   
154.190   Standard for site plan review
   
154.191   Approval of site plan
   
154.192   Expiration of site plan approval
   
154.193   Flexible landscaping
   
154.194   Performance guarantees
Special Land Uses
   
154.205   Purpose of special land uses
   
154.206   Authority to grant permits
   
154.207   Application and fee
   
154.208   Data, exhibits and information required in application
   
154.209   Public notifications
   
154.210   Required standards and findings for making determinations
   
154.211   Determination and approval process
   
154.212   Voiding of special land use permits
Off-Street Parking Requirements
   
154.225   Off-street parking space required
   
154.226   Plans
   
154.227   Location of off-street parking areas
   
154.228   Parking in residential districts
   
154.229   Off-street parking area design
   
154.230   Collective parking
   
154.231   Determining requirements
   
154.232   Schedule of off-street parking spaces
   
154.233   Exception
   
154.234   Off-street parking requirements in Central Business District
Off-Street Loading and Unloading Requirements
   
154.245   Off-street loading, unloading space required
   
154.246   Plans
   
154.247   Off-street loading area design
   
154.248   Off-street loading area space requirements
Utilities
   
154.260   Lighting
   
154.261   Underground wiring
   
154.262   Sidewalks/pedestrian circulation
Site Condominiums
   
154.275   Purpose
   
154.276   Definitions
   
154.277   Condominium plan; required contents
   
154.278   Condominium subdivision approval; additional regulations
Administration of the Ordinance
   
154.290   Purpose
   
154.291   Administration
   
154.292   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
154.293   Zoning compliance permits
   
154.294   Certificate of occupancy; final inspection
   
154.295   Fees, charges and expenses
   
154.296   Public hearing notices
Board of Appeals
   
154.310   Board of Appeals established
   
154.311   Duties of the Board of Appeals
   
154.312   Variance
   
154.313   Interpretation of Zoning Ordinance
Appeals to the Board of Appeals
   
154.325   Appeals, how taken
   
154.326   Who may appeal
   
154.327   Fee for appeal
   
154.328   Effect of appeal; restraining order
   
154.329   Notice of hearing
   
154.330   Representation of hearing
   
154.331   Decisions of the Board of Appeals to the Circuit Court
Amendment Procedures
   
154.345   Initiating amendments and fees
   
154.346   Amendment procedures
   
154.347   Conformance to Court decree
Conditional Rezoning
   
154.360   Intent
   
154.361   Application and offer of conditions
   
154.362   Planning Commission review
   
154.363   Village Council review
   
154.364   Approval
   
154.365   Compliance with conditions
   
154.366   Performance bond requirement
   
154.367   Time period for establishing development use
   
154.368   Reversion of zoning
   
154.369   Subsequent rezoning of land
   
154.370   Amendment of conditions
   
154.371   Village right to rezone
   
154.372   Failure to offer conditions
Legal Status
   
154.385   Conflict with other laws
   
154.386   Validity and severability clause
   
154.387   Period of effectiveness
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Regulating plan and Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 ENACTING CLAUSE.
   A chapter adopted under the authority of, and in accordance with, the
provisions of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being
MCL 125.3101 et seq., to establish comprehensive zoning regulations for the
village and to provide for the administration, enforcement and amendment
thereof and the repeal of all ordinances in conflict herewith.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 1.1)
§ 154.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of the
Village of Grass Lake.” The zoning map referred to herein is entitled “Zoning
Map, Village of Grass Lake.”
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 1.2)
§ 154.003 PURPOSE.
This chapter has been established for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting and protecting the public health, safety and general
welfare;
   (B)   Protecting the character and stability of the agricultural,
recreational, residential, commercial and industrial areas and promoting the
orderly and beneficial development of such areas;
   (C)   Preventing the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
population by regulating the intensity of use of land and the area of open
spaces, surrounding buildings and structures necessary to provide adequate
light, air and privacy to protect the public health;
   (D)   Lessening and avoiding congestion on public highways and streets;
   (E)   Providing for the needs of agriculture, recreation, residence,
commerce and industry in future growth to conform with the most advantageous
uses of land, resources and properties, with reasonable consideration of other
things, the general and appropriate trend and character of land, building and
population development, as studied and recommended by the Planning Commission
and the village;
   (F)   Encouraging the most appropriate use of lands in accordance with their
character and adaptability and prohibiting uses which are incompatible with the
character of development permitted within specified zoning districts;
   (G)   Conserving the taxable value of land and structures;
   (H)   Conserving the expenditure of funds for public improvements and
services;
   (I)   Protecting against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and odors, heat,
dust, smoke, glare, noise, vibration, radioactivity and other nuisances and
hazards, in the interest of the people; and
   (J)   Providing for the completion, restoration, reconstruction, extension
or substitution of nonconforming uses.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 1.3)
§ 154.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   Every building and structure erected, every use of any lot, building
or structure established, every structural alteration or relocation of an
existing building or structure occurring and every enlargement of or addition
to an existing use, building or structure occurring after the effective date of
this chapter shall be subject to all regulations of this chapter which are
applicable in the zoning district in which such building, or structure, or lot
is located.
   (B)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
or structure on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, provided that
construction shall be completed within 365 days of such effective date and be
subject thereafter to the provisions of §§
154.020 to
154.026 of this code.
   (C)   The adoption of this chapter shall not limit the construction of any
building or structure for which a zoning permit had been obtained prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter even though such
building or structure does not conform to the provisions of this chapter,
provided that work shall commence and be carried on within 30 days of obtaining
such permit and be subject thereafter to the provisions of §§
154.020 to
154.026 of this code.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 2.1)
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are herewith defined.
When not inconsistent with the context, the present tense includes the future,
the words used in the singular number include the plural number and in the
plural, the singular. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely
suggestive. The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual. The words
USED or OCCUPIED include the words “intended,” “designed” or “arranged” to be
used or occupied. Any words not herein defined shall be construed as defined in
the Housing Law of Michigan, being Public Act 167 of 1917, MCL 125.401 et seq.,
as amended.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate structure detached from, but located
on the same lot as, the principal structure, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal structure.
      ACCESSORY USE. A structure or use that:
         (a)   Is clearly incidental to and customarily found in connection
with a principal building or use;
         (b)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or a principal
use;
         (c)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         (d)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of
occupants, business or industry in the principal building or principal use
served; and
         (e)   Is located on the same lot as the principal building or use
served.
      ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY. A state-licensed establishment that provides
foster care to adults. It includes facilities and foster care homes for adults
who are aged, mentally ill, developmentally disabled or physically handicapped
who require supervision on an ongoing basis but who do not require continuous
nursing care. An ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY does not include convalescent or
nursing homes, homes for the aged, hospitals, alcohol or substance abuse
rehabilitation centers, residential centers for persons released from or
assigned to a correctional facility or any other facilities which have been
exempted from the definition of ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY by the Adult Foster
Care Facility Licensing Act, being Act 218 of 1979, MCL 400.701 et seq., as
amended. The following additional definitions shall apply in the application of
this chapter.
         (a)   ADULT FOSTER CARE CONGREGATE FACILITY. An adult foster care
facility with the approved capacity to receive more than 20 adults, to be
provided supervision, personal care and protection in addition to room and
board, for 24 hours a day, five or more days a week, and for two or more
consecutive weeks.
         (b)   ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME. A private residence with the
approved capacity to receive six or fewer adults, to be provided with
supervision, personal care and protection in addition to room and board, for 24
hours a day, five or more days a week, and for two or more consecutive weeks.
The ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME LICENSEE shall be a member of the household
and an occupant of the residence.
         (c)   ADULT FOSTER CARE LARGE GROUP HOME. An adult foster care
facility with the approved capacity to receive at least 13 but not more than 20
adults, to be provided supervision, personal care and protection in addition to
room and board, for 24 hours a day, five or more days a week, and for two or
more consecutive weeks.
         (d)   ADULT FOSTER CARE SMALL GROUP HOME. An adult foster care
facility with the approved capacity to receive 12 or fewer adults, to be
provided supervision, personal care and protection in addition to room and
board, for 24 hours a day, five or more days a week, and for two or more
consecutive weeks.
      ADULT USES. The definition of ADULT USES specifies the following types of
establishments.
         (a)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment that has as a substantial
portion of its stock and trade and offers for sale, for any form of
consideration, any one or more of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other visual
representations, that are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
            2.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
         (b)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar
establishment that regularly features live performances that are characterized
by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual
activities, or films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions in which a substantial portion of the total
presentation time is devoted to the showing of material that is characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
         (c)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
similar photographic reproductions are shown and in which a substantial portion
of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of material
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (d)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
establishment characterized by activities featuring the exposure of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (e)   MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, massage, alcohol rub, fomentation, electric or magnetic
treatment or similar treatment or manipulation of the human body is
administered, unless such treatment or manipulation is administered by a
medical practitioner, chiropractor, acupuncturist, physical therapist or
similar professional person licensed by the state. This definition does not
include an athletic club, health club, school, gymnasium, reducing salon, spa
or similar establishment where massage or similar manipulation of the human
body is offered as a secondary or accessory service.
         (f)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. As used herein, means and includes
any of the following:
            1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above
the top of the areola; or
            2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
         (g)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. As used herein, means and includes
any of the following:
            1.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
            2.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
            3.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
            4.   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of
the activities set forth in divisions (g)(1) to (g)(3) above.
      ALCOHOL MANUFACTURING FACILITIES.
         (a)   BREWERY. A facility that is licensed by the state’s Liquor
Control Commission to manufacture and sell to licensed wholesalers beer
produced by it.
         (b)   BREWPUB. An establishment with a license issued in conjunction
with a Class C, tavern, Class A hotel, or Class B hotel license by the state
that authorizes the person licensed with the Class C, tavern, Class A hotel or
Class B hotel to manufacture and brew not more than 5,000 barrels of beer per
calendar year in the state and to sell at those licensed premises the beer
produced for consumption on or off the licensed brewery premises in the manner
provided for in §§ 405 and 407 of the Michigan Liquor Control Code of 1998,
being Public Act 58 of 1998, MCL 436.1405 and 436.1407.
         (c)   DISTILLERY. A facility that is licensed by the state’s Liquor
Control Commission to manufacture and sell spirits or alcohol, or both, of any
kind.
         (d)   MICROBREWERY. A licensed brewery that produces in total less
than 30,000 barrels of beer per year and that may sell the beer produced to
consumers at the licensed brewery premises for consumption on or off the
licensed brewery premises. In determining the 30,000-barrel threshold, all
brands and labels of a brewer, whether brewed in this state or outside this
state, shall be combined and all facilities for the production of beer that are
owned or controlled by the same person shall be treated as a single facility.
         (e)   SMALL DISTILLERY. A facility for manufacturing spirits not
exceeding 60,000 gallons of spirits, or of all brands combined.
         (f)   SMALL WINERY. A winery manufacturing or bottling not more than
50,000 gallons of wine in one calendar year.
         (g)   WINERY. A facility licensed to manufacture wine and sell that
wine to a wholesaler, to a consumer by direct shipment, at retail on the
licensed winery premises, to sell that wine to a retailer and as provided for
in § 537 of the Michigan Liquor Control Code of 1998, being Public Act 58 of
1998, MCL 436.1537.
      ALLEY. A public or private way permanently reserved as a secondary means
of access to abutting property. ALLEY is not included within “highway” as
herein defined.
      ALTERATION. Any change, addition or modification in construction or
occupancy of an existing structure, such as walls, partitions, columns, beams
or girders.
      AMUSEMENT ARCADE. A building, or part of a building, in which ten or more
pinball machines, video games or other similar coin-operated devices are
maintained, unless such premises are licensed to serve alcohol.
      AUTO WASHING STATION. An area of land and/or a structure with machine- or
hand- operated facilities used principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing
or waxing of motor vehicles. For purposes of this chapter, AUTO WASHING
STATIONS shall be considered under the same regulations as for drive-in and
drive-through businesses.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR GARAGE. Any premises used for the storage of motor
vehicles or where such vehicles are repaired, rebuilt, sold or kept for sale or
hire.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. The dismantling or wrecking of used motor
vehicles or trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled or wrecked
vehicles or their parts. The presence on any lot or parcel of land of two or
more motor vehicles which, for a period exceeding 30 days, have not been
capable of operating under their own power, and from which parts have been or
are to be removed for reuse or sale, shall constitute prima facie evidence of
an AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD.
      BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A house, or portion thereof, where
short- term lodging rooms and meals are provided. The operator of such a BED
AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT shall live on the premises.
      BUFFER AREA. A landscaped area intended to separate and partially or
totally obstruct the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one
another.
      BUILDING. An enclosed structure having a roof supported by columns, walls
or other devices and used for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals or chattels.
      CLINIC. A building designed for the diagnosis and treatment of human
patients that does not include overnight care facilities.
      COMMERCIAL USE. The use of property in connection with the purchase,
sale, barter, display or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or personal
services, and the maintenance or operation thereon of offices or recreation or
amusement enterprises.
      COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A radio, telephone, cellular telephone or
television relay structure or skeleton framework, or a monopole attached
directly to the ground or another structure, used for transmission or reception
of radio, telephone, cellular telephone, television, microwave or any other
form of telecommunications signals. This definition shall not include dishes,
antennas, aerials or similar reception or transmission structures used for
noncommercial purposes serving a single residential or business premises, such
as amateur radio or two-way communication and/or dispatch systems for internal
business or family use, and that does not exceed the height limitations for the
appropriate zoning district.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be
detrimental to public health, safety or general welfare.
      CONDOMINIUM. See § 154.276.
      DAY CARE FACILITY. A facility for the care of children under 18 years of
age, as licensed and regulated by the state under Public Act 116 of 1973, being
MCL 722.111 et seq., as amended, and the associated rules of the state’s
Department of Social Services. Such organizations are further defined as
follows.
         (a)   CHILD CARE CENTER.
            1.   A facility, other than a private residence, receiving more
than six preschool or school-aged children for group care for periods of less
than 24 hours a day, and where the parents or guardians are not immediately
available to the child. It includes a facility which provides care for not less
than two consecutive weeks, regardless of the number of hours of care per day.
            2.   The facility is generally described as a CHILD CARE CENTER,
DAY CARE CENTER, DAY NURSERY, NURSERY SCHOOL, PARENT-COOPERATIVE PRESCHOOL,
PLAY GROUP or DROP-IN CENTER.
            3.   CHILD CARE CENTER does not include a Sunday school conducted
by a religious institution or a facility operated by a religious organization
where children are cared for during short periods of time while persons
responsible for such children are attending religious services.
         (b)   FAMILY CHILD DAY CARE HOME. A private home in which one, but not
more than six, minor children are received for care and supervision for periods
of less than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except
children related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or
adoption. It includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for more
than four weeks during a calendar year.
         (c)   GROUP CHILD DAY CARE HOME. A private home in which more than
six, but not more than 12, children are given care and supervision for periods
of less than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except
children related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or
adoption. It includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for more
than four weeks during a calendar year.
      DEAD STORAGE. Goods not in use and not associated with any office, retail
or other business use on the premises.
      DRIVE-IN/DRIVE-THROUGH BUSINESS. An establishment that, by design of
physical facilities or by service or packaging procedures, encourages or
permits customers to receive a service or obtain a product that may be used or
consumed in a motor vehicle on the premises or to be entertained while
remaining in an automobile.
      DWELLING. A building, including a mobile or modular home, or portion
thereof, that provides living facilities for one or more families. Garage
space, whether in an attached or detached garage, shall not be deemed a part of
a DWELLING in the calculation of floor area. In no case shall a tent,
recreational vehicle, camper trailer or any similar structures be considered a
DWELLING.
         (a)   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). A dwelling unit that is included
in a detached accessory building that is incidental and accessory to a
principal single-family dwelling on the same lot.
         (b)   APARTMENT. An APARTMENT is an attached dwelling unit with party
or common walls contained in a building with other dwelling units or sharing
the occupancy of a building with other than a residential use. APARTMENTS are
commonly accessed by a common stair landing or walkway. APARTMENTS are
typically rented by the occupants, but may be condominiums. APARTMENT BUILDINGS
often may have a central heating system and other central utility connections.
APARTMENTS are also commonly known as GARDEN APARTMENTS or FLATS.
         (c)   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms physically arranged so as to
create an independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family,
with separate toilets and separate facilities for cooking and sleeping.
         (d)   ECONOMY EFFICIENT DWELLING (EED). A principal dwelling unit that
is between 250 square feet and 700 square feet in size, built on an approved
foundation, meeting the State of Michigan’s building and sanitary codes, and
qualifying for a certificate of occupancy.
         (e)   EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. A unit within a multiple-family structure
which contains no space specially set aside to accommodate sleeping quarters.
SLEEPING QUARTERS shall not include storage closets, kitchens, laundry rooms,
living rooms or any other areas not commonly associated with bedroom
facilities.
         (f)   LIVE-WORK. A building unit that contains a dwelling unit on the
upper floor above a first-floor space under the same ownership that can be used
for a retail, service or office use. LIVE-WORK units may be attached to other
similar units.
         (g)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling which is substantially built,
constructed, assembled and finished off the premises upon which it is intended
to be located.
         (h)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY BUILDING. A building, or portion thereof, used
or designed as residences for three or more families living independently of
each other and each doing their own cooking in the building, with the number of
families in residence not exceeding the number of dwelling units provided. This
definition includes three-family houses, four-family houses and apartment
houses.
         (i)   SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building or manufactured home designed
exclusively for the complete living accommodations of one family and containing
one dwelling unit only.
         (j)   TOWNHOUSE. A self-contained dwelling unit attached to a dwelling
unit with party or common walls, designed as part of a series of three or more
dwelling units, each with:
            1.   A separate entryway with direct access to the outdoors at
ground level;
            2.   Defined front and rear yards;
            3.   Each dwelling shall comprise of a single unit from the lowest
floor to the highest floor between the common walls;
            4.   A separate basement, if applicable; and
            5.   Separate utility connections.
         (k)   TWO-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by two families living independently of each other. May also be
termed as a DUPLEX.
      ERECTED. Includes built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon and
physical operations on the land required for the building. Excavations, fill,
drainage and the like shall be considered a part of ERECTION.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments of underground, surface or
overhead gas, electrical, steam, fuel or water transmission or distribution
systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including
towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
alarms and police call boxes and traffic signals, hydrants and similar
accessories in connection therewith, but not including buildings, which are
necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such utilities or municipal
departments for the general health, safety or welfare.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood or marriage occupying a
dwelling unit and living as a single, nonprofit housekeeping unit. Further, a
FAMILY is defined as a collective number of individuals living in one house and
under one head whose relationship is of a permanent and distinct domestic
character, and cooking as a single housekeeping unit. This definition shall not
include any society, club, fraternity, sorority, association, lodge, combine,
federation, group, coterie or organization which is not a recognized religious
order, nor include a group of individuals whose association is temporary and
resort-seasonal in character or nature.
      FENCE. Any artificially constructed barrier of any material or
combination of materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
      FLAG LOT. A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a
narrow corridor. (See division (C) below.)
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the areas of the several floor of a
building, including areas used for human occupancy, as measured from the
exterior faces of the walls. It does not include cellars, basements, unenclosed
porches or attics, or any floor space in accessory buildings or in the main
building intended and designed for the parking of motor vehicles in order to
meet the parking requirements of this bylaw, or any such floor space intended
and designed for accessory heating and ventilating equipment. It shall include
the horizontal area at each floor level devoted to stairwells and elevator
shafts.
      FRONTAGE. The length of any one property line of a premises, which
property line abuts a legally accessible street right-of-way or any private
road used for street purposes. (See division (C) below.)
      HEIGHT, BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the elevation of
the average grade around the building to the roof, as follows:
         (a)   To the average height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and
gambrel roofs;
         (b)   To the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs;
         (c)   To the deck line of mansard roofs; or
         (d)   To the average height between the lowest point and the highest
point on a shed roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1105.png]
 
      HIGHWAY. Any public thoroughfare or street except alleys, including
federal, state or county roads and those appearing on recorded plats.
      HOME BUSINESS. An incidental and secondary use of a residence for
business purposes. It is a permitted use in all residential zoning districts
when it meets the standards listed in § 154.075 of this code. Examples of HOME
BUSINESSES include, but are not limited to, the following: dressmaking,
handicrafts, secretarial services, tutoring (limited to six students), a
consultant’s office and the office facility of a sales representative, provided
that no transactions are made in person on the premises.
      KENNEL. Any facility, except a duly licensed pet shop, where three or
more dogs are kept for breeding, sale, sporting, boarding or training purposes
for remuneration.
      LANDSCAPING TERMS. Terms are as follows.
         (a)   BERM. A planted earthen mound for the purpose of providing
screening between conflicting land uses.
         (b)   LANDSCAPED STRIP. A strip of land of definite width and location
reserved for building a berm and/or the planting of shrubs and/or trees to
serve as an obscuring screen in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   SCREENING. The method by which a view or sound of one site from
another adjacent site is shielded, concealed or hidden. SCREENING techniques
include fences, walls, hedges, berms or other features.
      LOT. A piece or parcel of land occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, or by any other activity permitted thereon, and including the open
spaces required by this chapter, and having its frontage upon a public street
or any private road used for street purposes. A LOT may or may not be
specifically designated as such on public records. This definition shall not
apply to condominium projects as regulated in §§ 154.275 to 154.278 of this
code.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on and at the intersection of two or more
streets or highways. (See division (C) below.)
      LOT COVERAGE. Determined by dividing that area of a lot which is occupied
or covered by the total horizontal projected surface of all buildings,
including covered porches and accessory buildings, by the gross area of that
lot.
      LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines. (See division (C) below.)
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot. (See division (C) below.)
      LOT LINE, FRONT. On an interior lot, the lot line abutting a street; or,
on a corner lot, both lot lines abutting streets; or, on a through lot, the lot
line abutting the street providing primary access to the lot. (See division (D)
below.) This definition shall not apply to condominium projects as regulated in
§§ 154.275 to 154.278 of this code.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line not intersecting a front lot line that is
most distant from and most closely parallel to the front lot line. A lot
bounded by only three lot lines will not have a REAR LOT LINE. (See division
(D) below.) This definition shall not apply to condominium projects as
regulated in §§ 154.275 to 154.278 of this code.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot that is not a front or rear lot
line. (See division (D) below.) This definition shall not apply to condominium
projects as regulated in §§ 154.275 to 154.278 of this code.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location and dimensions have been
legally recorded or registered in a deed or in a plat.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having its front and rear yards each abutting a
street. (See division (C) below.)
      LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot shall be the horizontal distance between
straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot,
measured at the required front setback line. (See division (D) below.) The
following provision shall also apply: the width between the side lot lines
measured at the street right-of-way or private road shall not be less than 80%
of the required LOT WIDTH, or 40% in the case of lots located on the turning
circle of a cul-de-sac.
      MAJOR STREET. Any street within the village designated as a MAJOR STREET
pursuant to Public Act 51 of 1951, being MCL 247.651 et seq., and amendments
thereto.
      MEDICAL LABORATORY. A facility primarily engaged in providing analytic or
diagnostic
services on human specimens, including body fluid or body tissue, or performing
diagnostic imaging, to government agencies, to the medical, dental or other
health service professions or to the patient, or an establishment primarily
involved in the fabrication (hand assembly) of medical devices, such as
dentures, eyeglasses and contact lenses and prosthetic devices.
      MINI-STORAGE WAREHOUSING. A building or a group of buildings used
primarily for the temporary dead storage of residential goods and wares as a
result of their transfer from one point to another and/or the dead storage of
residential goods and wares, commercial goods and wares and industrial goods,
wares and commodities.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes
the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in the
structure. MOBILE HOME does not include recreational vehicle.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or tract of land under the control of a person
upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a continual,
nonrecreational basis and which is offered to the public for that purpose
regardless of whether a charge is made therefore, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended for use
incident to the occupancy of a mobile home.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A legally platted residential subdivision
accommodating mobile homes.
      MODULAR HOME. A premanufactured dwelling designed for permanent
attachment to sanitary facilities in a residential district.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building, or portion thereof, lawfully
existing at the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and
which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter in the zoning district
in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A lawful use of land that does not comply with the use
regulations for its zoning district, but which complied with applicable
regulations at the time the use was established.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE OF MATERIAL. The keeping, in an area outside of any
building, of any goods, junk, material, merchandise or vehicles in the same
place for more than 24 hours.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT or PUD. A form of development usually
characterized by the flexible application of zoning district regulations and a
unified site design for a number of housing units, clustering buildings,
providing common open space. It permits the planning of a project and the
calculation of densities over the entire development rather than on an
individual, lot- by-lot basis. It also refers to a process, mainly revolving
around site plan review, in which the village will have considerable
involvement in determining the nature of the development.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. Whenever in this chapter appear the words “Planning
Commission,” it shall mean the Planning Commission of the Village of Grass
Lake, Michigan.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which the primary use of the lot on
which the building is located is conducted.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or structures, as distinguished from
a secondary or accessory use.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER. A facility that is not a junkyard and in
which recoverable resources, such as newspapers, glassware and metal cans, are
collected, stored, flattened, crushed or bundled, essentially by hand, within a
completely enclosed building.
      RESOURCE CENTER. A place, structure, area or other facility used for and
providing religious, fraternal, social and/or recreational programs generally
open to the public and designed to accommodate and serve significant segments
of the community.
   RESTAURANT. Any establishment whose principal business is the sale of food
and beverages to the customer in a ready-to-consume state, and whose method of
operation is characteristic of a carry-out, drive-in, drive-through, fast food,
sit down restaurant, or bar, lounge, or tavern or combination thereof, as
defined below.
      (1)   BAR, LOUNGE OR TAVERN. A type of restaurant which is operated
primarily for the dispensing of alcoholic beverages, although the sale of
prepared food or snacks may also be permitted. If a BAR or LOUNGE is part of a
larger dining facility, it shall be defined as that part of the structure so
designated or operated.
      (2)   RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT. A restaurant whose method of operation
involves sale of food, beverages and/or frozen desserts in disposable or edible
containers or wrappers in a ready-to-consume state for consumption primarily
off the premises.
      (3)   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. A restaurant designed to permit or facilitate
the serving of meals, sandwiches, ice cream, beverages or other food served
directly to, or permitted to be consumed by, patrons in cars or other vehicles
parked on the premises or permitted to be consumed by patrons elsewhere on the
site outside the main building.
      (4)   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-THROUGH. A restaurant whose method of operation
involves minimum waiting for delivery of ready-to-consume food to the customer
at a window, permitting the customer to remain in its vehicle, for consumption
primarily off the premises.
      (5)   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD. A restaurant whose method of operation
involves minimum waiting for delivery of ready-to-consume food to the customer
at a counter or cafeteria line for consumption at the counter where it is
served, or at tables, booths or stands inside or outside of the structure, or
for consumption off the premises, but not in a motor vehicle at the site.
      (6)   RESTAURANT, SIT DOWN. A restaurant whose method of operation
involves either the delivery of prepared food by waiters and waitresses to
customers seated at tables within a completely enclosed building or at approved
outdoor seating, or the prepared food is acquired by customers at a cafeteria
line and is subsequently consumed by the customers within the restaurant venue.
Outdoor seating may be permitted as accessory to the restaurant located on the
same site.
      SERVICE STATION. Any premises where gasoline and other petroleum products
are sold and/or light maintenance activities, such as engine tune-ups,
lubrication, minor repairs and carburetor cleaning, are conducted. SERVICE
STATIONS shall not include premises where heavy automobile maintenance
activities, such as engine overhauls, automobile painting and body fender work,
are conducted.
      SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the front, side
or rear property line and the portion of the structure closest to the property
line. This definition shall not apply to condominium projects as regulated in
§§ 154.275 to 154.278 of this code.
      SIGN. A structure or device designated or intended to convey information
to the public in written or pictorial form. Regulations for signs in the
village are contained in Ch. 152 of this code.
      SITE PLAN. A document or group of documents containing sketches, text,
drawings, maps, photographs and other material intended to present and explain
certain elements of a proposed development, including physical design, siting
of buildings and structures, interior vehicular and pedestrian access, the
provision of improvements and the interrelationship of these elements.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
         (a)   PHOTOVOLTAIC DEVICE. A system of components that generates
electric energy from incident sunlight by means of the photovoltaic effect,
regardless of whether the device can store the electric energy produced for
later use.
         (b)   SOLAR ARRAY. Any number of photovoltaic devices connected to
provide a single output of electric energy or other energy.
         (c)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ABANDONED. Any solar energy system, solar
array or combination of photovoltaic devices that remains nonfunctional or
inoperative to the extent that it not used to generate electric energy for a
continuous period of 12 months.
         (d)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, SMALL. A solar energy system where the sole
use is to generate electric energy or other energy by converting sunlight,
whether by photovoltaic devices or other conversion technology, primarily for
personal consumption by a single end user at the same property upon which the
solar energy system is located, with a generating capacity of less than 150 kW.
         (e)   UNREASONABLE SAFETY HAZARD. Any condition which could reasonably
be expected to create, cause or compound the substantial likelihood that death,
illness or personal injury may occur to any member of the general public,
including, but not limited, to trespassers or emergency services personnel.
Adherence by the property owner or occupants to industry standards for
safeguarding against such risks will be taken into consideration in determining
whether a condition poses an unreasonable safety hazard.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare, 66 feet in width, being a portion of any
of the recognized state, county or township highway systems.
      TOURIST HOME. A building where lodging is provided by a resident family
in its home for compensation, mainly for transients. A TOURIST HOME may be
called a BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A TOURIST HOME is not a hotel, motel
or a boarding house.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation by the Zoning Board of Appeals of the dimensional
regulations of the Code where such action will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions  peculiar to the property and not the
result of actions or the situation of the applicant, a literal enforcement of
this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. Whenever in this chapter appear the words VILLAGE
COUNCIL, it shall mean the Village Council of the Village of Grass Lake,
Michigan.
      YARD. A required open space on a lot adjoining a lot line, containing
only landscaping or other uses as provided by this Zoning Code.
      YARD, FRONT. A clear, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
extending across the entire width of the lot and situated between the front lot
line of the building and the front line of the lot. (See divisions (D) and (E)
below.)
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear lot line and the nearest line of the building. REAR YARD depth
shall be measured at right angles to the rear line of the lot. (See divisions
(D) and (E) below.)
      YARD, SIDE. A yard lying between the side line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building and extending from the front yard to the rear yard, or in
the absence of either of such front or rear yards, to the front or rear lot
lines. SIDE YARD widths shall be measured at right angles to side lines of the
lot. (See divisions (D) and (E) below.)
      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. Whenever in this chapter appear the words ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS, it shall mean the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of
Grass Lake.
      ZONING MAP. A map showing the location and placement of the various
zoning districts within the village. The ZONING MAP is composed of two
portions. These are the underlying portion and overlying portion.
      ZONING MAP, UNDERLYING. That portion of the Village Zoning Map containing
the various zoning districts, including the conventional zoning districts and
the form-based code districts. Land uses within these districts are regulated
herein unless superseded by the overlying map.
      ZONING MAP, OVERLYING. This zoning map reflects the presence of wetlands
as defined by the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy
(EGLE) and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service National Wetland
Inventory (NWI). The effect of the overlying map is to supersede the underlying
map unless, and until, the necessary wetland permits are secured for these
areas.
   (C)   The following figure depicts lot definitions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1099.png]
 
   (D)   The following figure depicts lot terms.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1101.png]
 
   (E)   The following figure depicts yard requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1103.png]
 
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 2.2; Ord. passed 1-7-1994; Ord. passed 10-6-1994;
Ord. passed 12-8-1994; Ord. passed 9-7-1995; Ord. passed 9-27-1999; Ord. passed
1-17-2000; Ord. passed 8-18-2002; Ord. passed 5-20-2009; Ord. passed 11-16-
2010; Ord. passed 9-17-2019; Ord. passed 11-23-2019; Ord. passed 12-19-2023;
Ord. passed 12-19-2023)
§ 154.006 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   All earlier versions of this chapter are repealed upon the effective
date of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter was adopted by the village at a meeting held on
_________, and notice ordered published in the Exponent, a newspaper having
general circulation in said village.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 9.4)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 154.020 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Where, within the districts established by this chapter or by
amendments, there exist lots, structures and uses of land and structures which
were lawful before this chapter was adopted or amended, and which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future
amendments, it is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are discontinued, damaged or removed, but not to encourage
their survival.
   (B)   These nonconformities are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with the lots, structures and uses permitted by the chapter in certain
districts. It is further the intent of this chapter that such nonconformities
shall not be enlarged, expanded or extended, except as provided herein, nor be
used as grounds for adding other lots, structures or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the same district.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 3.1)
§ 154.021 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, on the date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, a lawful use of
land exists that is no longer permissible under the provisions of the chapter,
such use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   No such nonconforming use of land shall be enlarged, expanded or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, and no accessory use or
structure shall be established therewith.
   (B)   No such nonconforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or in part,
to any other portion of such land not occupied on the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   If such nonconforming use of land ceases, for any reason, for a period
of more than 180 consecutive days, the subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations and provisions set by this chapter for the district
in which such land is located.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 3.2) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.022 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where, on the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, a
lawful structure exists that could not be built under the regulations of this
chapter by reason of restrictions upon lot area, lot width, lot coverage,
height, setback, open spaces or other characteristics of such structure, or its
location upon a lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such structure shall be enlarged, expanded, extended or altered in
any way which increases its nonconformance. Expansions and improvements shall
be allowed where there will not be an increase in nonconformity; for example, a
building with a nonconforming front yard setback may be expanded to the rear,
provided the setbacks for the rear portion of the building comply.
   (B)   Should any such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of
more than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not
be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should any such structure be moved, for any reason of any distance, it
shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in which it is
located after it is moved.
   (D)   Repairs and modernization to nonconforming structures containing a use
allowed in the district shall be permitted, provided the total cost of
construction does not exceed 50% of the structure’s replacement cost.
Reasonable upgrades to the building and site may be required to bring the
building and site closer to compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 3.3) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.023 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   Where, on the date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, a lawful use of
a structure exists that is no longer permissible under the regulations of this
chapter, such use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No nonconforming use of a structure shall be enlarged, expanded,
extended or altered, except in changing the use of such structure to a use
permitted in the district in which such structure is located.
   (B)   When a nonconforming use of a structure is discontinued or abandoned
for more than 180 consecutive days, the structure shall not thereafter be used
except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   (C)   In any structure devoted, in whole or in part, to any nonconforming
use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary
repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or
plumbing, to an extend not to exceed 10% of the then-current replacement value
of the structure, provided that the volume of such structure or the number of
families housed therein as it existed on the date of adoption or amendment of
this chapter shall not be increased. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the strengthening of any structure or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of
such official.
   (D)   Should any structure containing a nonconforming use be moved, for any
reason of any distance, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
   (E)   Should any structure devoted, in whole or in part, to any
nonconforming use be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of
its replacement costs at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed
and again devoted to any use except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 3.4) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.024 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP.
   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership or management of an existing
nonconforming use, building or structure, provided there is no change in the
nature or character of such nonconforming use, building or structure.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 3.5)
§ 154.025 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to any nonconforming lot of record or
nonconforming lot described in a deed or land contract executed and delivered
prior to the effective date of this subchapter, or amendment thereto.
   (A)   Use of nonconforming lots. Any nonconforming lot shall be used only
for a use permitted in the district in which it is located. In any district in
which single-family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding limitations
imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a single-family dwelling and
customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the
effective date of this subchapter. This provision shall apply even though such
lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are
generally applicable in the district, provided that the lot is in conformity
with all other applicable yard setback, minimum area and any other dimensional
requirements which apply to the district in which the lot is located. See
division (C) below.
   (B)   Variance requirements. If the proposed use of a nonconforming lot
would not be in conformity with the minimum setback and other applicable
dimensional requirements set forth in this chapter, then such proposed use
shall be permitted only if a variance is granted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals. See division (C) below.
   (C)   Development requirement. To develop a nonconforming lot(s) under the
provisions of division (A) or (B) above, the applicant is required to submit
evidence that ownership of the lot was not, at the time of adoption or
amendment of this subchapter, under contiguous single ownership with other lots
which could have been combined into a conforming, or more conforming, lot. For
purposes of this subchapter, the term DEVELOP shall be defined to mean a change
in use of, or location, modification, or construction of, any structure on such
lot.
   (D)   Nonconforming contiguous lots under the same ownership. The following
regulations shall apply to nonconforming contiguous lots under the same
ownership.
      (1)   If two or more lots, or combinations of lots, with contiguous
frontage are under single ownership and are of record at the time of adoption
or amendment of this subchapter, and if all or part of the individual lots do
not meet the requirements established for lot width or area, the parcels
involved shall be considered to be an individual parcel for purposes of this
subchapter. Any alteration of lot lines, or combinations of lots, shall result
in lots which more closely conform to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   No portion of any such parcel shall be used, occupied or sold such
that the same would diminish compliance with the minimum lot width and area
requirements set forth in this chapter, nor shall any division of a parcel be
made which creates a lot with width or area less than the minimum requirements
set forth in this chapter.
      (3)   Once any combination which creates a conforming lot occurs, the
resulting lot shall not retain nonconforming lot of record status, may not be
redivided and will thereafter be required to comply with the lot requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 3.6) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.026 DISTRICT BOUNDARY CHANGES.
   When district boundaries shall hereafter be changed, any nonconforming use
may still be continued, but subject to all other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 3.7)
ZONING DISTRICTS GENERALLY
§ 154.040 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The village is hereby divided into zones or districts as shown on the
official Zoning Map, and shall include the following zoning districts.
   (A)   Traditional zoning districts.
 
MU-1 Municipal Utilities District
OS-1 Open Space District
R-1  Single-Family Residential District
R-2  Two-Family Residential District
RM-1 Multiple-Family Residential District
 
   (B)   Form-based code districts.
CBD Central Business District
CM  Church/Maple Street District
GC  General Commercial District
LI  Light Industrial
LS  Lakeshore District
MA  Michigan Avenue District
USG Union Street Gateway District
WS  Water Street District
 
(Ord. passed  5-20-2009 , § 4.1.1)
§ 154.041 MAPS.
   (A)   The boundaries of these districts are shown upon the official Zoning
Map of the village and made a part of this chapter. The official Zoning Map
shall be maintained and kept on file with the Village Clerk, and all notations,
references and other information shown thereon are a part of this chapter and
have the same force and effect as if the said Zoning Map and all such
notations, references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth
or described herein.
   (B)   The Zoning Map is contained within two distinct maps, an underlying
and an overlying map. The underlying map represents the zoning districts listed
in § 154.040 of this code, which are regulated strictly under the provisions of
this chapter. The overlying map shows the presence of wetlands as defined by
the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE), which
are regulated by said agency.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2000, § 4.1.2)
§ 154.042 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following corporate limits shall
be construed as following corporate limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed to
follow such shore lines, and in the event of changes in the shore, the line
shall be construed as moving with the actual shore line. Boundaries indicated
as approximately following the center line of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or
other similar bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center lines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of, features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official Zoning Map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
   (G)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official Zoning Map or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (F) above, the Board of Appeals shall
interpret the district boundaries.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 4.1.3)
§ 154.043 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Each district, as created in this chapter, shall be subject to the
regulations contained in this chapter. Uses not expressly permitted are
prohibited. Uses for enterprises or purposes that are contrary to federal,
state or local laws or ordinances are prohibited.
Penalty, see §
154.999
VILLAGE FORM-BASED CODE
§ 154.055 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the village’s form-based code is to provide specific
regulations to achieve the following:
   (A)   Develop a fully integrated, mixed-use, pedestrian-oriented environment
with historic residential neighborhoods and a traditional downtown with
buildings that contain commercial, residential and office uses;
   (B)   Create a synergy of uses within the downtown to support economic
development and redevelopment;
   (C)   Calm traffic traveling through the village to create a more
pedestrian-friendly environment. Prevent a clustering of auto-oriented uses,
which could degrade the pedestrian-friendly environment;
   (D)   Regulate building height and placement to achieve appropriate scale
along streetscapes and ensure proper transition between the different areas of
the village; and
   (E)   Establish clear controls on building form and placement to frame a
well-defined public realm comprised of human-scale streets, neighborhoods and
public spaces, all of which contribute to creating a safe, comfortable and
livable environment.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2009, § 4.3.1)
§ 154.056 REGULATING PLAN AND LISTING OF DISTRICTS.
   A form-based code is established for the core area of the village, which is
divided into the following districts.
   (A)   LS - Lakeshore District. The Lakeshore District is intended to provide
a primarily residential setting along the lake while protecting waterfront and
lake resources and preserving the historic character of the neighborhood.
   (B)   CM - Church/Maple Street District. The Church/Maple Street District is
intended to provide a quiet, single-family residential setting while preserving
the historic character of the neighborhood.
   (C)   MA - Michigan Avenue District. The Michigan Avenue District is
intended to provide a mixed- use district that is primarily residential in
character but allows other compatible uses. The intent of this district is to
preserve the historic character and sense of arrival as a person travels into
the village. To achieve this, the regulations encourage maintaining the grand
scale of larger buildings and lots along Michigan Avenue. It is also the intent
of this district to calm traffic traveling through the village.
   (D)   WS - Water Street District. The Water Street District is intended to
be a transitional district on the edge of downtown that is primarily
residential, but also allows for infill development that would help support the
downtown.
   (E)   GC - General Commercial District. The General Commercial District is
intended for commercial uses that provide convenience goods and services for
residents of the village and the surrounding area. It is further the intent of
this district that sites develop or redevelop in a manner that is consistent
with the goal to maintain the historic character and enhance the walkability of
the village.
   (F)   USG - Union Street Gateway District. The Union Street Gateway District
is intended to provide a node of activity centered at the intersection of Union
Street and Michigan Avenue. The intent of this district is to create a gateway
district around the key Michigan Avenue/Union Street crossroad that is
compatible with the surrounding residential character.
   (G)   CBD - Central Business District. The Central Business District is
intended to protect the historic, small town character of the downtown and
enhance the traditional, pedestrian-oriented environment of the village. The
district provides for a mixture of retail stores, offices, entertainment,
public spaces, residential uses and related activities that are mutually
supporting and serve the needs of the community. The intent of this district is
to encourage a lively social environment and economically viable downtown with
a wide variety of uses in a pedestrian-oriented, unified setting with shared
parking.
   (H)   LI - Light Industrial. The Light Industrial District is intended to
permit low-impact manufacturing uses and certain heavy commercial uses that
provide services to the community. Because of the small size of this district
and the close proximity of other uses, this district is intended to redevelop
with a mixture of uses that will be compatible with other uses as opposed to
heavier, high-impact industrial uses.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2009, § 4.3.2; Ord. passed 7-17-2018)
§ 154.057 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Uses shall be permitted based upon the district. Each use is listed
in the table in division (B) below as one of the following by district:
         (a)   P: principal permitted use;
         (b)   C: conditional use; or
         (c)   - -: not allowed.
      (2)   Uses must comply with the use standards that are referenced in the
right column.
      (3) Uses shall be allowed in the following general building types
indicated for the use in the table in division (B) below. The building type
shall meet the requirements of §
154.059 of this code.
   (B)   Permitted and conditional uses by district and building type.
    Districts                 Building Type(s) Use Standards
Use LS CM MA WS GC USG CBD LI
                 Districts                       Building Type(s) Use Standards
Use              LS  CM  MA  WS  GC  USG CBD LI
Auto Services
Automobile and
recreational     - - - - - - - - C   - - - - C   GC/MU, IND
vehicle sales
Automobile       - - - - - - - - C   C   - - P   GC/MU, CBD, AS   §
service stations                                                  154.077
Car washes       - - - - - - - - C   - - - - P   GC/MU, CBD, AS   §
                                                                  154.077
Major vehicle                                                     §
repair and body  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P   GC/MU, AS, IND   154.077
shops
Minor automobile
maintenance such                                 GC/MU, CBD, AS,  §
as oil change,   - - - - - - - - C   - - - - P   IND              154.077
brake service
and tire stores
Recreational
vehicle and boat - - - - - - - - C   - - - - P   GC/MU, IND       §
maintenance and                                                   154.077
storage
Civic
Churches,
synagogues,                                                       §
temples and      P   P   P   P   P   P   P   - - C/I              154.082(A)
similar places
of worship
Co-location on
existing                                                          §
wireless         - - - - - - - - P   - - - - P   IND              154.082(C)
communication
facilities
Essential public P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   C/I
services
Municipal
service
facilities,
including public - - - - - - - - P   - - - - P   GC/MU, C/I, IND
works buildings
and storage
yards
New construction
of wireless      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C   IND              §
communication                                                     154.082(C)
facilities
Public and
private          P   P   P   P   - - P   - - - - C/I
cemeteries
Public/
government
buildings, such
as village/
state/county     P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   C/I
federal offices,
museums,
libraries and
community
centers
Public, private
or parochial     P   P   P   P   P   P   P   - - C/I              §
elementary                                                        154.082(B)
schools
Industrial
Automobile                                                        §
wrecking and     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C   IND              154.083(A)
salvage yards
Breweries,                                                        §
wineries and     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P   IND              154.078(E)
distilleries
Bulk storage of
explosives or    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C   IND              §
hazardous                                                         154.083(B)
materials
Contractors
yards, with or   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C   IND              §
without outdoor                                                   154.083(C)
storage
Crating and
packaging within
a completely     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P   IND
enclosed
building
Helicopter       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C   IND              §
landing pads                                                      154.083(D)
Light
manufacturing
and assembly     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P   IND
within an
enclosed
building
Outdoor storage
accessories to a - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C   IND
permitted use
Recycling                                                         §
collection       - - - - - - - - P   - - - - P   IND, C/I         154.083(E)
centers
Warehousing and                                                   §
mini-storage     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P   IND              154.083(F)
warehousing
Lodging and Restaurants
Banquet halls    - - - - - - - - P   P   P   - - GC/MU, CBD
Bed and          C   C   C   C   P   P   P   - - CS, SFR          §
breakfast inns                                                    154.078(A)
Drive-through                                    GC/MU, CBD, CS,  §
and drive-in     - - - - - - - - C   - - - - - - DT               154.078(D)
restaurants
Hotels           - - - - - - - - P   P   P   - - GC/MU, CBD       §
                                                                  154.078(B)
Microbreweries,
small wineries
and small
distilleries,
provided the     - - - - - - - - P   P   P   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS   §
brewing, wine-                                                    154.078(E)
making and
distilling area
is less than
2,500 sq. ft.
Microbreweries,
small wineries
and small
distilleries                                                      §
with brewing,    - - - - - - - - P   C   C   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS   154.078(E)
wine-making and
distilling areas
greater than
2,500 sq. ft.
Restaurants,
taverns, bars,
brewpubs, carry-
out and similar
establishments   - - - - - - - - P   P   P   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS
serving food or
beverages, but
excluding drive-
throughs
Restaurants,
taverns, bars,
brewpubs, carry-
out and similar  - - - - - - - - P   P   P   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS   §
establishments                                                    154.078(C)
serving food or
beverages with
outdoor seating
Medical and Care Facilities
Adult foster                                                      §
care congregate  - - - - - - - - C   C   C   - - GC/MU, CBD, CS   154.080(E)
facilities
Adult foster                                                      §
care family      P   P   P   P   - - P   - - - - SFR              154.080(E)
homes
Adult foster                                                      §
care large group - - - - - - - - - - C   - - - - SFR              154.080(E)
homes
Adult foster                                                      §
care small group C   C   C   C   - - C   - - - - SFR              154.080(E)
homes
Child care
centers,                                                          §
preschool and    C   C   C   C   P   P   P   - - GC/MU, CBD, CS   154.080(A)
commercial day
care
Family child day P   P   P   P   P   P   P   - - SFR
care homes
Funeral homes    - - - - C   - - C   C   C   - - GC/MU, CBD, CS   §
                                                                  154.080(C)
Group child day  C   C   C   C   C   C   C   - - SFR              §
care homes                                                        154.080(B)
Hospitals and                                                     §
convalescent     - - - - - - - - C   C   C   - - GC/MU, CBD, CS   154.080(D)
homes
Medical and
dental offices,  - - - - P   P   P   P   P   - - GC/MU, CBD, CS
clinics
Medical          - - - - - - - - P   - - P   - - GC/MU, CBD
laboratories
Nursing homes                                                     §
and senior       C   C   C   C   - - C   - - - - GC/MU, MFR       154.080(D)
assisted living
Veterinary
hospitals, small - - - - - - - - C   C   C   C   GC/MU, CBD, CS
animal
Office and Financial
Bank, loan and
financial        - - - - - - C   C   C   C   - - GC/MU, CBD, CS
offices
Drive-through
service                                          GC/MU, CBD, CS,  §
accessories to a                 C   C           DT               154.076(A)
bank, loan or
financial office
Professional     - - - - P   P   P   P   P   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS
offices
Radio and TV     - - - - - - C   C   - - - - C   GC/MU, IND, CS   §
studios                                                           154.079
Real estate,
insurance and    - - - - P   P   P   P   P   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS
investment
brokers
Other
Other uses
similar to the
uses in this
district and not
listed in        P/C P/C P/C P/C P/C P/C P/C P/C Based on similar
another                                          use
district,
subject to other
provisions in
this chapter
Recreation and Entertainment
Adult uses       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - C   GC/MU            §
                                                                  154.081(A)
Assembly halls,
recreational
clubs, fraternal
order halls,
private clubs,   - - - - - - - - P   - - P   P   GC/MU, CBD
lodge halls or
other similar
places of
assembly
Boat and RV
sales and        - - - - - - - - C   - - - - - - GC/MU
storage
Boat clubs and   C   - - - - - - C   - - - - - - GC/MU
marinas
Health clubs,
fitness centers, - - - - - - - - P   - - P   P   GC/MU, CBD
gyms and aerobic
clubs
Indoor
recreation, such
as bowling
alleys,
racquetball      - - - - - - - - P   - - P   P   GC/MU, CBD       §
courts, skating                                                   154.081(B)
rinks, swimming
pools and
amusement
arcades
Parks,
playgrounds,
common greens,   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   C/I
plazas, public
gathering places
and open spaces
Theaters         - - - - - - - - P   - - P   P   GC/MU, CBD
Residential Uses
Accessory        P   P   P   P   - - P   - - - - AB               §
dwelling units                                                    154.075(F)
Detached single-                                                  §
family           P   P   P   P   - - P   - - - - SFR              154.075(A)
residential
Home businesses  P   P   P   P   P   P   P   - - All              §
                                                                  154.075(C)
Live/work units
with a dwelling
unit on the
upper floor      - - - - - - - - P   P   P   P   GC/MU, CBD
above a first-
floor commercial
space under the
same ownership
Multiple-family                                  GC/MU, CBD, APT, §
residential      - - - - - - C   C   P   P   - - TH               154.075(E)
(apartments)
Residential
dwellings on
upper floors     - - - - - - - - P   P   P   - - GC/MU, CBD
within mixed-use
buildings
Townhouses
(attached        - - - - - - P   P   P   P   - - TH
single- family
residential)
Two-family       P   P   P   P   - - P   - - - - SFR
residential
Retail and Services
Bakeries, pastry - - - - - - - - P   - - P   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS
and fudge shops
Building
supplies sales,
lumber yards,
garden and lawn
supply stores    - - - - - - - - C   - - - - P   GC/MU, CBD, IND  §
and other                                                         154.076(B)
similar retail
uses with
outdoor sales/
storage
Drive-through
service          - - - - - - - - C   - - - - - - GC/MU, CBD, DT   §
accessories to a                                                  154.076(A)
retail use
Feed and
fertilizer,      - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P   GC/MU, CBD, IND  §
sales and                                                         154.076(B)
storage
Kennels          - - - - - - - - C   - - - - C   GC/MU, IND       §
                                                                  154.076(C)
Machinery sales,                                                  §
farm or          - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P   GC/MU, CBD, IND  154.076(B)
industrial
Personal service
establishments,
such as barber/
beauty shops,
dry cleaning     - - - - - - - - P   P   P   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS
drop-off
stations, shoe
repair shops and
tailoring
Retail
establishments
within an
enclosed         - - - - - -     P   P   P   P   GC/MU, CBD, CS
building;
floor area
30,000 sq. ft.
or less
Retail
establishments
within an
enclosed         - - - - - -     C   C   C   C   GC/MU, CBD, CS
building;
floor area above
30,000 sq. ft.
Wholesale of any
commodity made   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P   GC/MU, CBD, CS,
or processed on-                                 IND
site
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010, § 4.3.3; Ord. passed 7-17-2018; Ord. passed 9-17-2019;
Ord. passed 12-19-2023)
§ 154.058 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   LS, Lakeshore District. All lots and buildings in the Lakeshore
District shall meet the following dimensional requirements.
Accessory       Accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements of §
buildings       154.059(G)
Building height Minimum 20-ft. building height; maximum 3 stories/35-ft.
                building height
                Minimum 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area for single-family
Floor area      dwellings, minimum 650 sq. ft. of floor area each for two-
                family dwellings; ADU: see §
                154.075(F) for allowed dimensions
Front/street    Minimum 25-ft. front yard setback
yard
Lot area        Minimum 8,700-sq. ft. lot area
Lot coverage    Maximum lot coverage is 30%
Lot width       Minimum 66-ft. lot width
Parking         No parking shall be allowed in the front yards, except for a
                residential driveway
Rear yard       Minimum 30-ft. rear yard setback
Residential     Minimum 8,700 sq. ft. of lot area for each dwelling unit
density
Side yard       Minimum 5 ft. on one side; 15 total of both
                The minimum setback from the shoreline is equal to the average
                setback of adjacent dwellings, determined by a straight line
Waterfront yard drawn between the two adjacent buildings; provided, if adjacent
                dwellings are set back more than 30 ft., the required minimum
                setback shall be 30 ft.; if one or both of the adjacent lots
                are vacant, the required minimum setback shall be 30 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1107.png]
 
   (B)   CM, Church/Maple Street District. All lots and buildings in the
Church/Maple Street District shall meet the following dimensional requirements.
Accessory       Accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements of §
buildings       154.059(G)
Building height Minimum 20-ft. building height; maximum 3 stories/35-ft.
                building height
                Minimum 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area for single-family
Floor area      dwellings; minimum 650 sq. ft. of floor area each for two-
                family dwellings; ADU: see §
                154.075(F) for allowed dimensions
Front yard      Minimum 25-ft. front yard setback
Lot area        Minimum 8,700-sq. ft. lot area
Lot coverage    Maximum lot coverage is 30%
Lot width       Minimum 66-ft. lot width
Parking         No parking shall be allowed in the front yards, except for a
                residential driveway
Rear yard       Minimum 30-ft. rear yard setback
Residential     Minimum 8,700 sq. ft. of lot area for each dwelling unit
density
Side yard       Minimum 5-ft. on one side; 15 total of both
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1109.png]
 
   (C)   MA, Michigan Avenue District. All lots and buildings in the Michigan
Avenue District shall meet the following dimensional requirements.
Accessory       Accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements of §
buildings       154.059(G)
Building height Minimum 20-ft. building height; maximum 3 stories/35-ft.
                building height
                Minimum 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area for single-family
Floor area      dwellings; minimum 650 sq. ft. of floor area each for two-
                family dwellings; ADU: see §
                154.075(F) for allowed dimensions
Front yard      Minimum 25-ft. front yard setback
Lot area        Minimum 8,700-sq. ft. lot area
Lot coverage    Maximum lot coverage is 30%
                Minimum 66-ft. lot width, except where an existing lot and both
Lot width       adjacent lots have a lot width of 80 ft. or more, then the
                minimum lot width shall be 80 ft.; corner lots must be at least
                80 ft. wide along the front property line
Parking         No parking shall be allowed in the front yards facing Michigan
                Avenue, except for a residential driveway
Rear yard       Minimum 30-ft. rear yard setback
Residential     Minimum 8,700 sq. ft. of lot area for each dwelling unit
density
Side yard       Minimum 5-ft. on one side; 15 total of both
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1111.png]
 
   (D)   WS, Water Street District. All lots and buildings in the Water Street
District shall meet the following dimensional requirements.
Accessory   Accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements of §
buildings   154.059(G)
Building    Minimum 20-ft. building height; maximum 3 stories/35-ft. building height
height
            Minimum 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area for single-family dwellings; minimum 650
Floor area  sq. ft. of floor area each for two-family dwellings and townhouses; ADU: see §
            154.075(F) for allowed dimensions
Front yard  Single/two-family: minimum 25-ft. front yard setback
            Townhouse: minimum 5-ft. front yard setback
Lot area    Minimum 8,700-sq. ft. lot area
Lot         Maximum lot coverage is 30% for single- and two-family dwellings
coverage
Lot width   Minimum 66-ft. lot width
Parking     No parking shall be allowed in the front yards, except for a residential
            driveway
Rear yard   Minimum 30-ft. rear yard setback
Residential Minimum 4,350 sq. ft. of lot area for each dwelling unit
density
Side yard   Minimum 5-ft. on one side, 15 total of both; zero side setback may be permitted
            where a fire wall is provided between adjoining townhouse dwelling units
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1113.png]
 
   (E)   GC, General Commercial District. All lots and buildings in the General
Commercial District shall meet the following dimensional requirements.
Accessory       Accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements of §
buildings       154.059(G)
Buffer from     Where the side or rear adjoins residential, a 10-ft. buffer
residential     zone shall be provided in accordance with §
                154.060(D)(4)
Building        Building facade shall occupy a minimum of 40% of the frontage
frontage        length between the minimum and maximum setback
requirements
                Minimum 1 story/16-ft. building height, maximum 3 stories/35-
Building height ft. building height; the first story shall be a minimum of 12
                ft. in height measured from floor to ceiling
Floor area      Minimum 550 sq. ft. of floor area each for each dwelling unit
Front yard      Minimum 0-ft., maximum 20-ft. front yard setback
Lot area        No minimum lot area
Lot width       No minimum
                Side and rear yard parking are permitted; up to 60% of the
Parking         frontage may be occupied by off-street parking, provided a 3-
                ft. tall screen wall is located between the sidewalk and
                parking lot
Rear yard       Minimum 15-ft. rear yard setback
                Minimum 4,350 sq. ft. of lot area per dwelling unit in a
Residential     residential building; in mixed-use buildings with upper floor
density         apartments above ground floor commercial, there shall be no
                density limit
                A zero side setback may be permitted where a fire wall is
Side yard       provided along the side lot line; where a fire wall is not
                provided, buildings shall be spaced a minimum of 10 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1115.png]
 
   (F)   USG, Union Street Gateway District. All lots and buildings in the
Union Street Gateway District shall meet the following dimensional
requirements.
Accessory       Accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements of §
buildings       154.059(G)
Buffer from     Where the side or rear adjoins residential, a 10-ft. buffer
residential     zone shall be provided in accordance with §
                154.060(D)(4)
Building height Minimum 1 story/16-ft. building height; maximum 3 stories/35-
                ft. building height
                Minimum 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area for single-family
Floor area      dwellings; minimum 650 sq. ft. of floor area each for two-
                family dwellings, townhouses, multiple-family dwellings and
                live-work units
Front yard      Minimum 25-ft. front yard setback
Lot area        Minimum 8,700-sq. ft. lot area
Lot coverage    Maximum lot coverage is 30% for single- and two-family
                dwellings
Lot width       Minimum 66-ft. lot width; corner lots must be at least 80 ft.
                wide along the front property line
Parking         No parking shall be allowed in the front yards facing Michigan
                Avenue, except for a residential driveway
Rear yard       Minimum 15-ft. rear yard setback
Residential     Minimum 3,000 sq. ft. of lot area for each dwelling unit
density
Side yard       Minimum 5-ft. on one side; 15 total of both
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1117.png]
 
   (G)   CBD, Central Business District. All lots and buildings in the Central
Business District shall meet the following dimensional requirements.*
Accessory       Accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements of §
buildings       154.059(G)
Building        Building facade shall occupy a minimum of 60% of the frontage
frontage        length along Michigan Avenue between the minimum and maximum
requirements    setback
                Minimum 20-ft. building height, maximum 3 stories/40-ft.
Building height building height; the first story shall be a minimum of 12 ft.
                in height measured from floor to ceiling
Floor area      Minimum 550 sq. ft. of floor area for each dwelling unit
Front yard      Minimum 0-ft., maximum 10-ft. front yard setback; townhouse
                setback is between 5 and 10 ft.
Lot area        No minimum lot area
Lot width       No minimum
                No parking shall be allowed in the front yards facing Michigan
                Avenue, except for on-street parking; side and rear yard
Parking         parking are permitted; up to 40% of the frontage to the side of
                the building may be occupied by off-street parking, provided a
                3-ft. tall screen wall is located between the sidewalk and
                parking lot
Rear yard       Minimum 15-ft. rear yard setback
                Minimum 4,350 sq. ft. of lot area for each dwelling unit in a
Residential     residential building; in mixed-use buildings with upper floor
density         apartments above ground floor commercial, there is no density
                limit
                A zero side setback may be permitted where a fire wall is
Side yard       provided along the side lot line; where a fire wall is not
                provided, buildings shall be spaced a minimum of 10 ft.
* All buildings, except for cottage shop buildings and civic/institutional
buildings, must follow the building design requirements for CBD storefront
buildings (§
154.059(B))
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1119.png]
 
   (H)   LI, Light Industrial. All lots and buildings in the Light Industrial
shall meet the following dimensional requirements.
Accessory    Accessory buildings shall be subject to the requirements of §
buildings    154.059(G)
Building     Building facade shall occupy a minimum of 40% of the frontage length between
frontage     the minimum and maximum setback
requirements
Building     Minimum 1 story/20-ft. building height, maximum 3 stories/35-ft. building
height       height; the first story shall be a minimum of 12 ft. in height measured from
             floor to ceiling
Floor area   Minimum 650 sq. ft. of floor area for each dwelling unit
Front yard   Minimum 0-ft., maximum 40-ft. front yard setback
Lot area     No minimum lot area
Lot width    No minimum
Parking      Not more than a single row of parking shall be permitted in the front yard
             between the building and the street; side and rear yard parking is permitted
Rear yard    No rear yard setback is required except where an industrial use adjoins a
             residential use or residential zoning district
Residential  Minimum 3,000 sq. ft. of lot area for each dwelling unit (live-work units
density      only)
Setback from Where the side or rear of a nonresidential use adjoins a residential
residential  district, a 50-ft. setback and a buffer zone meeting the requirements of §
             154.060(D)(4) shall be provided
             A zero side setback may be permitted where a fire wall is provided along the
Side yard    side lot line not located adjacent to a residential district; where a fire
             wall is not provided, space buildings a minimum of 10 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1121.png]
 
(Ord. passed 5-20-2009, § 4.3.4; Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 12-19-
2023)
§ 154.059 BUILDING DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The uses permitted in §
154.057(B) of this code shall be located in a building type specified in §
154.057(B). The building type must meet general classifications of this
section. Existing buildings that do not conform to the design requirements of
this shall not be considered nonconforming structures; however, any exterior
modifications shall bring the building closer to conformity with this section.
   (A)   General commercial and mixed-use buildings.
      (1)   All commercial buildings and mixed-use buildings that contain non-
residential and residential uses, such as retail on the ground floor and
residential on upper floors and live-work units, shall meet the following
requirements.
                               Blank walls (without windows) longer than 20 ft.
                               shall not face a street, and building walls
Blank walls                    shall be articulated with wall projections/
                               recessions, variable materials, colors or
                               details to visually break up the wall
                               There shall be a minimum of 1 usable pedestrian
                               entrance along the front public sidewalk; main
Entrance                       pedestrian entrances shall have design details
                               that enhance the appearance and prominence of
                               the entrance so that it is recognizable from the
                               street and parking areas
                               Buildings with a flat roof appearance from the
Flat roof buildings            street shall have a decorative cornice; flat
                               roofs shall be enclosed by parapets
                               A front facade wall that faces a public street,
                               plaza, green or park shall include windows and
Front facade                   architectural features customarily found on the
                               front of a building, such as awnings, cornice
                               work, edge detailing or decorative finish
                               materials
                               Garage doors shall not be permitted on a front
Garage doors                   facade; however, openings for drives leading to
                               parking and loading areas are permitted
                               At least 50% of the ground floor facade facing
Ground floor                   the street between 2 and 10 ft. above the
                               sidewalk shall be clear windows and doorways
                               All rooftop HVAC mechanical mounted equipment
                               shall be screened from view on all sides of the
                               building; parapets and other screening treatment
                               shall use high-quality building materials and
Mechanical equipment screening shall blend with the design of the building in
                               terms of color, materials, scale and height;
                               mechanical equipment on buildings with a pitched
                               roof shall be on the back half of the building
                               and shall be concealed such that it is not
                               visible from the ground
                               Buildings with a pitched roof shall be permitted
Pitched roof buildings         where the roof pitch is between a minimum of 4:
                               12 and a maximum of 12:12
                               For a building located on a corner lot, the
                               second front facade facing the lesser traveled
                               street may have the above door and window
Secondary facade               requirement of the first floor reduced to one-
                               half the required amount of fenestration,
                               provided the secondary facade is not facing
                               Michigan Avenue
                               Openings above the first story shall be a
Upper floor windows            maximum of 50% of the total facade area; windows
                               above the first story shall be vertical in
                               proportion
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1123.png]
 
   (B)   CBD storefront buildings.
      (1)   All buildings in the CBD must meet the following requirements,
except for cottage shop buildings and civic/institutional buildings.
                               Blank walls (without windows) longer than 20 ft.
                               shall not face a street, and building walls
Blank walls                    shall be articulated with wall projections/
                               recessions, variable materials, colors or
                               details to visually break up the wall
                               There shall be a minimum of 1 usable pedestrian
                               entrance every full 50 ft. of frontage along the
                               front public sidewalk; main pedestrian entrances
Entrance                       shall have design details that enhance the
                               appearance and prominence of the entrance so
                               that it is recognizable from the street and
                               parking areas
                               Buildings with a flat roof appearance from the
Flat roof buildings            street shall have a decorative cornice; flat
                               roofs shall be enclosed by parapets
                               Garage doors shall not be permitted on a front
Garage doors                   facade; however, openings for parking structure
                               entrances and drives leading to loading areas
                               are permitted
                               Ground floors shall be designed with storefronts
                               that have windows, doorways and signage which
                               are integrally designed and painted; storefront
Ground floor storefront        buildings shall be designed to create a distinct
                               and separated ground floor area through the use
                               of accent, such as a string course, change in
                               material or textures or an awning or canopy
                               between the first and second stories
                               Not less than 70% of the storefront/ground floor
                               facade facing the street between 2 and 10 ft.
                               above the sidewalk shall be clear windows and
                               doorways; glass areas on storefronts shall be
Ground floor windows and doors clear or lightly tinted; mirrored glass is
                               prohibited; required window areas shall allow
                               views into retail space, working areas, lobbies,
                               pedestrian entrances or display windows; windows
                               shall not be blocked with opaque materials or
                               the back of shelving units
                               All rooftop HVAC mechanical mounted equipment
                               shall be screened from view on all sides of the
                               building; parapets and other screening treatment
                               shall use high-quality building materials and
Mechanical equipment screening shall blend with the design of the building in
                               terms of color, materials, scale and height;
                               mechanical equipment on buildings with a pitched
                               roof shall be on the back half of the building
                               and screened on all sides so it is not visible
                               from the ground
                               Buildings with a pitched roof shall be permitted
Pitched roof buildings         where the eaves are at least 20 ft. from the
                               ground and the roof pitch is between a minimum
                               of 4:12 and a maximum of 12:12
                               For a building located on a corner lot, the
                               second front facade facing the lesser traveled
                               street may have the above door and window
Secondary facade               requirement of the first floor reduced to one-
                               half the required amount of fenestration,
                               provided the secondary facade is not facing
                               Michigan Avenue
                               Openings above the first story shall be a
Upper floor windows            maximum of 50% of the total facade area; windows
                               above the first story shall be vertical in
                               proportion
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1125.png]
 
   (C)   Cottage shop building.
      (1)   Buildings that were originally constructed as single-family
residences and converted to a nonresidential use or constructed to appear as
residential conversions shall meet the following requirements.
 
                               Blank walls (without windows) longer than 20 ft.
                               shall not face a street, and building walls
Blank walls                    shall be articulated with wall projections/
                               recessions, variable materials, colors or
                               details to visually break up the wall
Front facade                   There shall be a minimum of 1 usable pedestrian
                               entrance along the front public sidewalk
Garage doors                   Garage doors shall not be permitted on a front
                               facade
                               Not less than 25% of the ground floor facade
Ground floor windows and doors facing a street shall be clear windows and
                               doorways
                               Buildings with a pitched roof shall be permitted
Roof design                    where the eaves are at least 20 ft. from the
                               ground and the roof pitch is between a minimum
                               of 4:12 and a maximum of 12:12
                               Openings above the first story shall be a
Upper floor windows            maximum of 50% of the total facade area; windows
                               above the first story shall be vertical in
                               proportion
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1127.png]
 
   (D)   Apartment buildings.
      (1)   Apartment buildings that contain only multiple-family dwellings
shall meet the following design requirements. Multiple-family dwellings located
in mixed-use buildings shall be subject to the general commercial/mixed-use
building or the CBD storefront building design requirements in divisions (A)
and (B) above. Apartment buildings are considered buildings with common
entrances; where dwellings have individual entrances, they shall be subject to
the townhouse design standards of division (E) below.
 
                      There shall be a minimum of 1 pedestrian entryway facing
                      the front lot line with a front stoop; the stoop or porch
Entrance              shall have a minimum depth of 4 ft. and a minimum area of
                      24 sq. ft.; ADA-compliant access ramps that connect to
                      the stoop may project into the front yard
                      The first floor elevation shall be a minimum of 3 ft.
First floor elevation above the average exterior sidewalk elevation in front of
                      the building
Parking and carports  Off-street parking lots and carports or garages shall be
                      located in the side or rear yard
                      Buildings with a flat roof appearance from the street
                      shall have a decorative cornice; buildings with a pitched
Roof design           roof shall be permitted where the eaves are at least 20
                      ft. from the ground and the roof pitch is between a
                      minimum of 4:12 and a maximum of 12:12
Windows and doors     The front facade of all residential units shall be a
                      minimum of 25% and a maximum of 75% windows and doorways
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1129.png]
 
   (E)   Townhouses.
      (1)   Attached/townhouse dwellings shall meet the following design
requirements.
 
                      Each dwelling shall provide a separate pedestrian
Entrance              entryway facing the front lot line, with direct access to
                      the outdoors at ground level by way of a front porch or
                      stoop with steps
                      The first floor elevation shall be a minimum of 3 ft.
First floor elevation above the average exterior sidewalk elevation in front of
                      the building
                      All dwellings shall include a front stoop or porch; the
Front porch or stoop  stoop or porch shall have a minimum depth of 4 ft. and a
                      minimum area of 24 sq. ft.; ADA-compliant access ramps
                      that connect to the stoop may project into the front yard
                      Attached or detached garages shall be located in the rear
Garages               yard or on the rear side of the building and shall be
                      accessed by a rear alley or drive
                      Buildings shall be designed with a pitched roof with
Roof design           eaves at least 20 ft. from the ground, and the roof pitch
                      is between a minimum of 4:12 and a maximum of 12:12
Windows and doors     The front facade of all residential units shall be a
                      minimum of 25% and a maximum of 50% windows and doorways
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1131.png]
 
   (F)   Detached single- and two-family dwellings.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings and duplex dwellings shall meet
the following design requirements.
 
                      All buildings shall provide at least 1 pedestrian door
Entrance              facing the front lot line; two-family dwellings may have
                      1 unit with a door on the side
                      The first floor elevation shall be a minimum of 3 ft.
First floor elevation above the average exterior sidewalk elevation in front of
                      the building
                      All dwellings shall include a front porch or stoop with
                      steps; a minimum depth of 6 ft. and a minimum area of 48
Front porch or stoop  sq. ft. shall be provided on single-family detached
                      dwellings and duplex dwellings; duplex units may share a
                      single front porch
                      Detached garages shall be located in the rear yard;
                      garages may be accessed by a rear alley or by driveways
Garages               that pass through the side yard of the lot; front-facing
                      attached garages shall be permitted, provided they do not
                      project past the front building line and do not encompass
                      more than 50% of the total building width
                      Buildings shall be designed with a pitched roof with
Roof design           eaves at least 20 ft. from the ground, and the roof pitch
                      is between a minimum of 4:12 and a maximum of 12:12
Windows and doors     The front facade of all residential units shall be a
                      minimum of 25% and a maximum of 50% windows and doorways
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1133.png]
 
   (G)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   Detached accessory buildings shall meet the following design
requirements.
 
                   The building materials and colors of the accessory building
Building materials shall match or complement at least one of the materials used
                   on the principal building
                   Garage doors may not face towards a street unless they are
Garage doors       located in the rear or side yard; garage doors may face an
                   alley
                   Detached residential accessory buildings may not exceed 16
                   ft. and 2 stories in height, provided the roof does not
Height             exceed the height of the principal building; commercial or
                   industrial accessory buildings shall be subject to the
                   principal building height restrictions
Location           Detached accessory buildings shall only be located in the
                   side or rear yard
                   Residential accessory buildings shall be designed with a
Roof               minimum of 4:12 roof pitch; commercial or industrial
                   accessory buildings may have a flat roof
                   Accessory buildings shall be a minimum of 3 ft. from the
Setbacks           side and rear lot line and shall be a minimum of 10 ft. from
                   any other building, including the main building or accessory
                   buildings on adjacent lots
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1135.png]
 
   (H)   Auto service uses.
      (1)   Service stations and other automobile-oriented uses, such as car
washes and vehicle maintenance uses, shall meet the following design
requirements. A lot containing an auto service use shall not be located within
300 feet of a lot containing the same type of auto service use or a use with an
accessory drive-through window.
 
                  Not more than 1 driveway shall be provided directly from the
Access            auto service use to a public street; on a corner lot, a
                  second access can be allowed (one to each street)
Building design   The building shall meet all of the design requirements for a
                  storefront building
Building height   A single story building may be permitted, provided the
                  building has a pitched roof with a minimum 4:12 slope
                  The canopy over the fueling pumps shall have a pitched roof
Canopy            with a minimum 4:12 slope; support posts for the canopy shall
                  be brick or stone; the canopy shall be attached to the
                  building roof
                  Not more than 4 fueling pumps may be located in the Michigan
Fueling pumps     Avenue front yard, provided there is a 10 ft. landscape
                  greenbelt along the frontage
                  Service bay doors shall be located on the side or rear of the
Service bay doors building and shall not be on the front facade facing Michigan
                  Avenue
                  There shall be no outside storage of vehicle parts or other
Storage           materials; long-term storage of vehicles for longer than 48
                  hrs. shall be located in the rear yard and shall be screened
                  by a minimum 6-ft. tall opaque fence
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1137.png]
 
   (I)   Accessory drive-through uses.
      (1)   (a)   Drive-through windows that are accessory to restaurants,
banks, retail uses such as pharmacies and service uses such as dry cleaners
shall meet the following design requirements. A lot containing a use with an
accessory drive-through window shall not be located within 300 feet of another
lot containing a use with an accessory drive-through window or an auto service
use.
         (b)   The 300-foot spacing does not apply to automobile service
stations or a drive-through service accessory to a bank, loan or financial
office in the Union Street Gateway District.
 
                       Not more than 1 driveway shall be provided to a public
Access                 street; the driveway may be shared with an adjacent use
                       or easement provided to allow future shared use
                       The drive-through structure shall complement the design
Building               of the principal building; canopy design shall also be
                       compatible with the design of the principal building and
                       incorporate similar materials and architectural elements
Drive-through location The drive-through shall be attached to the rear or side
                       of the building where it is least visible from a street
                       Not more than 1 drive-through window, teller or lane
                       shall be permitted on a building or site; a drive-
Number of lanes        through service accessory to a bank, loan or financial
                       office in the Union Street Gateway (USG) District may
                       have up to 3 drive-through windows, tellers or lanes
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1139.png]
 
         (a)   The storefront on sidewalk requirement found in the image in
division (I)(2)(b) below does not apply in the Union Street Gateway District,
which has a minimum 25-foot front yard setback.
         (b)   Requirements are depicted as follows.
   (J)   Industrial buildings.
      (1)   All industrial buildings shall meet the following requirements.
 
                               The front facade facing the street shall meet
Front facade                   the building material requirements of division
                               (L) below
                               Garage doors and loading docks shall not be
Garage doors and loading docks permitted on a front facade; all loading areas
                               shall be located in the rear yard
                               All rooftop HVAC mechanical mounted equipment
                               shall be screened from view on all sides of the
Mechanical equipment screening building; parapets and other screening treatment
                               shall use high-quality building materials and
                               shall blend with the design of the building in
                               terms of color, materials, scale and height
                               The side and rear facades of the building that
                               do not face a public street shall be exempt from
Side and rear facades          the building material requirements of division
                               (L) below; for a corner lot, the side facade
                               facing a street shall also be subject to the
                               front facade design requirements above
Windows and doors              The front facade shall consist of a minimum of
                               25% windows and doors
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1139.png]
 
   (K)   Civic/institutional buildings.
      (1)   The design of an institutional or community service building, such
as a church, school, government office or post office, is subject to review and
approval by the Planning Commission. The intent is to allow flexibility in the
design and siting of these unique buildings that serve a public use while
ensuring their positive contribution to a desired community character, as
stated in §
154.055 of this code.
 
          There shall be a minimum of 1 usable pedestrian entrance along the front
Entrance  public sidewalk; main pedestrian entrances shall have design details that
          enhance the appearance and prominence of the entrance so that it is
          recognizable from the street and parking areas
Front     Walls that face a public street, plaza, green or park shall include windows
facade    and architectural features customarily found on the front of a building, such
          as awnings, cornice work, edge detailing or decorative finish materials
Front     Civic/institutional buildings may exceed the maximum front yard setback of
setback   the district where a pedestrian plaza or landscaped front yard is provided
          The standards for general commercial and mixed-use buildings contained in §
          154.059(A) of this code shall be used as a basis for the design of civic/
Prominent institutional buildings; however, the Planning Commission may permit
design    modifications from these standards based upon the unique needs for the
          building and the desire to create unique landmark features with civic/
          institutional buildings
 
      (2)    Image:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1143.png]
 
   (L)   Building materials.
      (1)   Permitted materials. All buildings shall contain quality building
materials in keeping with the character of traditional buildings in the
village. Permitted materials for exterior walls (exclusive of windows and
doors) clearly visible from a street or parking lot shall be limited to the
following.
Building Material Primary Material Trim Material
Building Material                                          Primary   Trim
                                                           Material  Material
Brick or tile masonry (panel brick, tilt-up brick or       Permitted Permitted
textured paneling not permitted)
Fiber cement siding (such as Hardie-Plank) or vinyl siding Permitted Permitted
Gypsum reinforced fiber concrete (GRFC—for trim elements - -       Permitted
only)
Metal (for beams, lintels, trim elements and ornamentation - -       Permitted
only)
Native stone (or synthetic equivalent)                     Permitted Permitted
Pre-cast masonry (for trim and cornice elements only)      - -       Permitted
Split-faced block (only for piers, foundation walls and    - -       Permitted
chimneys)
Stucco (cementitious finish)                               Permitted Permitted
Wood lap siding                                            Permitted Permitted
 
      (2)   Percent of visible wall material. Primary building material shall
comprise at least 75% of the visible wall materials. Trim material shall
comprise not more than 25% of the visible wall materials. Wall area
calculations are exclusive of windows and doors.
      (3)   Approval of other materials. Provided the appearance is in keeping
with the traditional architectural character of the village, other materials
not listed in division (L)(1) above that are of the same or higher quality in
terms of durability and appearance/texture similar to brick, stone or wood may
be approved by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Materials prohibited in visible areas. Wall materials, including
panel brick, tilt-up brick textured paneling, plain, smooth-face or scored
concrete masonry units, exterior insulation and finish system (EIFS),
corrugated metal paneling and fiberglass sheeting are prohibited for walls that
are clearly visible from streets, parks, civic squares and civic greens.
   (M)   Awnings and marquees. Storefronts and building entrances may be
enhanced by awnings or marquees which give shade and shelter or add color and
visual interest to the entry or display window of the storefront, provided that
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Projection and clearance. Awnings and marquees may project over a
sidewalk; however, there must be a minimum eight-foot clearance provided from
the sidewalk.
      (2)   Shade, shelter provision. Awnings and marquees shall be functional
and provide shade or shelter for pedestrians over a substantial portion of the
sidewalk.
      (3)   Positioning. Awnings shall be positioned immediately above ground
floor windows and have a straight shed that projects from the building.
      (4)   Construction materials. Awnings shall be constructed of durable
materials, such as canvas or steel, that will not fade or tear easily.
Plasticized, rigid, cubed or curved awnings or mansard-style canopies are
prohibited.
      (5)   Illumination. Awnings shall not be internally illuminated, and any
signs shall be illuminated by fixtures located above the awning and directed
downward.
      (6)   Image.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1145.png]
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010, § 4.3.5)
§ 154.060 NONRESIDENTIAL SITE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Parking. Each use shall be required to provide off-street parking in
accordance with the requirements of §§
154.225 to
154.234 of this code.
      (1)   Location. Off-street parking shall be located in the rear yard to
the maximum extent practical. Parking may be permitted in the side yard where
it is set back a distance equal to the building, does not occupy more than 40%
of the frontage along the street and a three-foot tall brick screenwall that
serves as an extension of the adjacent building is provided between the parking
and the sidewalk.
      (2)   Shared parking. Uses on separate lots may enter into shared parking
agreements. The amount of parking provided for all such uses shall equal the
sum of the parking required for each individual use; provided, however, the
Planning Commission may authorize a reduction in the total number of required
parking spaces when it has been determined that two or more uses can be
adequately served by the same parking spaces by reason of the characteristics
of the land uses and their hours of operation.
   (B)   Bicycle facilities. All developments with parking lots shall be
designed to accommodate bicycle travel by providing bike racks.
   (C)   Loading. Off-street loading spaces shall be provided as required by §§
154.245 to
154.248 of this code. Waivers to loading space requirements may be granted by
the Planning Commission for uses, such as offices or banks, where deliveries by
truck will not be necessary. Loading and outdoor storage areas shall be located
in the rear yard or within loading bays that are surrounded or enclosed by
buildings and not visible from the street. Loading areas not within loading
bays shall be screened from any adjacent use by a six-foot tall brick wall or
other masonry material matching the primary building material.
   (D)   Landscaping and screening. Landscaping and screening shall be provided
for as follows.
      (1)   Street trees. One street canopy tree shall be provided for each 40
feet of street frontage. Street trees shall be minimum two and one-half-inch
caliper canopy trees.
      (2)   Parking lot landscaping. Parking lots shall be landscaped with one
canopy tree for every ten parking spaces. Parking lots that are located in a
rear yard and are not visible from the street shall be exempt from this
requirement.
      (3)   Parking lot screening. Where parking is visible from a street, it
shall be screened by a three-foot tall screen wall located between the parking
lot and the sidewalk. Where a parking lot for a nonresidential use is adjacent
to a residential use or district, a six-foot tall brick screen wall or wooden
fence, as approved by the Planning Commission, shall be provided between the
parking lot, including drives, and the residential use or district.
      (4)   Buffers. A ten-foot wide landscape buffer shall be installed
between any nonresidential building and any adjacent residential use. The
buffer shall include a three-foot high berm planted with one tree and four
shrubs for every 20 linear feet of shared property line. Trees shall consist of
minimum two and one-half-inch caliper canopy trees or minimum six-foot tall
evergreen trees.
   (E)   Screen walls. Where required, screen walls must meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Height. All screen walls must be at least 36 inches in height
measured from the highest grade on either side of the wall location.
      (2)   Construction. Walls shall be constructed of brick not less than
eight inches thick and shall have a pointed, 45-degree limestone or brick cap
that overhangs the wall not less than one-half inch on each side. Brick walls
must be constructed on a continuous foundation.
      (3)   Ornamental fencing. Wrought iron fencing or other similar
ornamental fencing may be used, provided its design uses brick piers and it is
installed along with a continuous hedge row.
   (F)   Waste receptacles. Waste receptacles shall not be visible from the
street and shall be located in the rear yard. Waste receptacles over 55 gallons
in size shall be enclosed by a six-foot tall wall constructed of brick or other
masonry material matching the primary building material. Multiple businesses
may share a waste receptacle, provided there is a recorded agreement for shared
use and maintenance. Uses with multiple smaller trash cans shall keep the trash
cans in some form of screened enclosure.
   (G)   Outdoor lighting. All outdoor lighting used to light the general area
of a nonresidential site shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be
arranged to reflect lights away from all adjacent residential districts or
adjacent residences in accordance to the standards below.
      (1)   Light level. Light shall not exceed more than one-half foot-candle
at a residential lot line. Light shall not exceed more than one foot-candle at
a nonresidential lot line, except along the road frontage. The maximum light
level on the site shall be ten foot-candles. Light levels under canopies, such
as gas stations or drive-through banks, may be increased up to a maximum of 20
foot-candles.
      (2)   Direction of light. Outdoor lighting fixtures, including parking
lot lights and wall-packs, shall be downward-directed, shielded, full cutoff
fixtures. Lighting shall be directed toward and confined to the ground areas of
lawns or parking lots, except for ornamental lighting. Ground-mounted
floodlights must be directed onto structures in a manner that does not cause
off-site glare.
      (3)   Ornamental lighting. Ornamental lighting, including pedestrian
lighting and decorative wall sconces, may be permitted if approved by the
Planning Commission. Decorative lighting must be designed to limit light spill
onto adjacent properties.
      (4)   Pole height. Light pole heights may not exceed 20 feet in height.
Additional pole height may be allowed at road intersections, as approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (5)   Neon lighting. Exterior neon lighting is not permitted.
      (6)   Street lights. Street lights shall be required in the CBD along
Michigan Avenue and Lake Street.
         (a)   Placement shall be coordinated with street tree locations and
should generally be placed every 60 feet on center.
         (b)   Electrical outlets must be included in the light design to allow
for decorative holiday lighting.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2009, § 4.3.6)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.061 STREETSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following typical street cross sections represent the desired
street form for the various districts and streets noted. The following are
typical street sections and may vary along their length based upon village
engineering standards.
      (1)   Existing streets. An applicant shall not be required to make any
improvements to the vehicular lanes located between the curbs for an existing
public street. However, the applicant shall make all streetscape improvements
outside of the street curb along the lot frontage as shown in the following
cross sections, including sidewalks, curb-lawn landscaping and street trees.
      (2)   New streets or reconstruction. When an applicant proposes a new
street or to reconstruct an existing street, they shall construct the street
and associated streetscape improvements in accordance with the following street
cross sections and all applicable village engineering and construction
standards.
   (B)   Streetscape requirement details.
      (1)   Michigan Avenue CBD.
 
Curb-lawn     None
Parking       East of Lake Street, angled parking on both sides; west of Lake
              Street, angled on north side, parallel on south side
Right-of-way  66 ft., or as determined by MDOT
Roadway       40 ft., or as determined by MDOT; 2 travel lanes
Sidewalk      Minimum 6-ft. wide both sides
Street lights Village street lights
Street trees  None required
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1147.png]
 
      (2)   Michigan Avenue (outside CBD) and Union Street.
 
Curb-lawn     13 ft. grass between curb and sidewalk
Parking       No parking, except on-street parallel parking is allowed on Union
              Street, south of Michigan Avenue
Right-of-way  66 ft., or as determined by village
Roadway       28 ft., or as determined by MDOT; 2 travel lanes
Sidewalk      Minimum 5-ft. wide both sides
Street lights None required
Street trees  Minimum 1 tree every 40 ft. in curb-lawn or in front yard within
              15 ft. of front lot line
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1149.png]
 
      (3)   Church, Lake and Walnut Streets.
 
Curb-lawn     13 ft. grass between road and sidewalk
Parking       Parallel parking both sides
Right-of-way  66 ft., or as determined by village
Roadway       28 ft., or as determined by village; 3 lanes (travel/parking)
Sidewalk      Minimum 5 ft.-wide both sides
Street lights None required
Street trees  Minimum 1 tree every 40 ft. in curb-lawn or in front yard within
              15 ft. of front lot line
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1151.png]
 
      (4)   Lafayette Street.
 
Curb-lawn     13 ft. grass between curb and right-of-way
Parking       Parallel parking on one side
Right-of-way  56 ft., or as determined by village
Roadway       18 ft., or as determined by village; 2 lanes (travel, no parking)
Sidewalk      Minimum 5 ft.-wide both sides
Street lights None required
Street trees  Minimum 1 tree every 40 ft. in curb-lawn or in front yard within
              15 ft. of front lot line
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1153.png]
 
      (5)   Clark, Watson and Water Streets.
 
Curb-lawn     6 ft. grass between curb and right-of-way
Parking       Parallel parking both sides
Right-of-way  50 ft., or as determined by village
Roadway       28 ft., or as determined by village; 3 lanes (travel/parking)
Sidewalk      Minimum 5-ft. wide both sides
Street lights None required
Street trees  Minimum 1 tree every 40 ft. in curb-lawn or in front yard within
              15 ft. of front lot line
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1155.png]
 
      (6)   Maple and Drake Streets.
 
Curb-lawn     3.5 ft. grass between curb and sidewalk; 7.5 ft. grass area where
              there is no sidewalk
Parking       No parking
Right-of-way  33 ft., or as determined by village
Roadway       18 ft., or as determined by village; one-way
Sidewalk      Minimum 4-ft. wide both sides
Street lights None required
Street trees  Minimum 1 tree every 40 ft. in front yard within 15 ft. of front
              lot line
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1157.png]
 
(Ord. passed  5-20-2009 , § 4.3.7)
USE STANDARDS FOR ALL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.075 RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Dwelling units. All dwelling units shall be reviewed by the Building
Official, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Dwelling units shall conform to all applicable village codes and
ordinances. Any such local requirements are not intended to abridge applicable
state or federal requirements with respect to the construction of the dwelling.
Dwelling units shall be constructed to the requirements of the Stille-
DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code Act of 1972 (Public Act 230 of
1972, being MCL 125.1501 et seq., as amended) and of the National Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401
et seq., as amended.
      (2)   The setbacks, gross floor area and lot coverage of any proposed
single-family dwelling unit shall comply with the standards set forth in the
zoning district.
      (3)   Dwelling units shall be permanently attached to a perimeter
foundation. In instances where the applicant elects to set the dwelling on
piers or other acceptable foundations that are not at the perimeter of the
dwelling, then a perimeter wall shall also be constructed. Any perimeter wall
shall be constructed of durable materials and shall also meet all local
requirements with respect to materials, construction and necessary foundations
below the frost line. Any such wall shall also provide an appearance which is
compatible with the dwelling and other homes in the area.
      (4)   Dwelling units shall be provided with exterior finish materials
similar to the dwelling units on adjacent properties or in the surrounding
residential neighborhood.
      (5)   Dwelling units shall have a roof with a minimum four-to-12 (4:12)
pitch and minimum eight-inch eave, and with a drainage system that will collect
and concentrate the discharge of stormwater or snow away from the sides of the
dwelling. The roof shall have wood shake, asphalt or other acceptable shingles
and meet the snow load standards for southern Michigan.
      (6)   Dwelling units shall be oriented on the lot to be consistent with
the configuration of dwelling units on adjacent properties and in the
surrounding residential neighborhood. All dwelling units shall have a width-to-
depth and depth-to-width ratio that does not exceed three-to-one (3:1). All
dwelling units shall have a minimum width dimension of 24 feet.
      (7)   Dwelling units shall be oriented toward the public right-of-way
such that the facade that faces the street is manifestly designed as a front
facade containing a door, windows and other architectural features customary of
the front facade of a residence. There shall be a minimum of two exterior
doors, with one facing the street. All entrances shall be provided with steps,
a stoop or a porch that is permanently attached on a frost-depth foundation,
either to the perimeter wall or foundation.
      (8)   The dwelling shall contain storage capability in a basement located
under the dwelling, in an attic area, in closet areas or in a separate
structure of standard construction similar to or of better quality than the
principal dwelling, which storage area shall be equal to 10% of the square
footage of the dwelling or 100 square feet, whichever is less.
      (9)   All homes shall be anchored by an anchoring system approved by the
village.
      (10)   (a)   The Building Official may request a review by the Planning
Commission of any dwelling unit with respect to divisions (A)(4), (5) and (6)
above. The Planning Commission shall review the proposed dwelling at a hearing,
where notice of such hearing shall be provided to all occupants of dwellings
within 300 feet of the lot to contain the proposed dwelling. The Building
Official or Planning Commission shall not seek to discourage architectural
variation, but shall seek to promote the reasonable compatibility of the
character of dwelling units, thereby protecting the economic welfare and
property value of surrounding residential uses and the village at large.
         (b)   In reviewing any such proposed dwelling unit, the Building
Official may require the applicant to furnish such plans, elevations and
similar documentation as the Building Official deems necessary to permit a
complete review and evaluation of the proposal. When comparing the proposed
dwelling unit to similar types of dwelling areas, consideration shall be given
to comparable types of homes within 300 feet. If the area within 300 feet does
not contain any such homes, then the nearest 20 similar-type dwellings shall be
considered.
      (11)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to manufactured
homes situated in licensed manufactured housing parks.
      (12)   Division (A)(8) above shall not apply to accessory dwelling units
(ADUs). ADUs shall be subject to the requirements of division (F).
      (13)   Divisions (A)(5) through (A)(8) above shall not apply to economy
efficient dwellings (EEDs). EEDs shall be subject to the requirements of
division (G).
   (B)   Mobile home parks, subdivisions. Mobile home parks and subdivisions
shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Each mobile home approved for erection on a mobile home subdivision
lot shall be mounted on a solid concrete apron not less than 12 feet in width,
70 feet in length and four inches in thickness, or on a suitable foundation.
      (2)   Lot areas where a mobile home is to be erected, altered or used as
a single-family dwelling shall contain not less than 10,000 square feet of lot
area for each mobile home.
      (3)   The minimum lot width shall be 80 feet.
      (4)   The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 30%.
      (5)   Each mobile home in the subdivision shall have a front yard setback
of at least 30 feet.
      (6)   Each mobile home in the subdivision shall have side yard setbacks
of at least eight feet.
      (7)   Each mobile home in the subdivision shall have a rear yard setback
of at least 20 feet.
      (8)   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be erected to a
height exceeding 15 feet.
      (9)   All mobile homes to be erected and used in a mobile home
subdivision shall contain a gross floor area of not less than 840 square feet.
   (C)   Home businesses.
      (1)   Home businesses shall be conducted solely by persons residing at
the residence and/or with the assistance of one person who does not reside on
the premises.
      (2)   All business activity shall take place within the interior of the
dwelling or an accessory structure. There shall be no exterior storage of
materials or equipment.
      (3)   No alteration to the exterior of the residential dwelling,
accessory building(s) or yard that alters the residential character of the
premises is permitted. Only a personal driveway may be used, and no parking
lots can be created for use by the business.
      (4)   The home business shall not have the effect of increasing the land
use intensity, including the volume of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, beyond
that normally generated by homes in a residential neighborhood.
      (5)   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises,
except that which is prepared or produced by the home business.
      (6)   No equipment or process shall be used in a home business which
generates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor or electrical interferences that
create a nuisance to persons off the premises. This includes electrical devices
which create visible or audible interferences with radio or television
receivers or fluctuations in line voltages off the premises.
      (7)   No hazard of fire, explosion, radioactivity or chemical
contamination shall exist at any time.
      (8)   A home business shall be permitted one sign, which sign is
specified in § 152.04(G)(3) of this code.
   (D)   Single- to two-family home conversions. Conversion of a single-family
home to two-family usage is subject to the following condition: the unit is
owner-occupied.
   (E)   Multiple-family apartments. Multiple-family apartments shall follow
the following guidelines.
      (1)   The minimum square footage for apartment units shall be as follows.
 
Efficiency 550 sq. ft.
1 bedroom  650 sq. ft.
2 bedrooms 750 sq. ft.
3 bedrooms 900 sq. ft.
4 bedrooms 1,050 sq. ft.
 
      (2)   On a site that contains multiple apartment buildings, there shall
be a minimum of 35-foot spacing between all buildings.
      (3)   A minimum land area of 4,200 square feet shall be required for each
dwelling unit in the GC District.
      (4)   The maximum number of living units in each building shall be 16.
      (5)   (a)   When a multiple-family development lies adjacent to any less
intensive residential use in the WS District, a minimum ten-foot wide
landscaped strip shall be provided. This strip shall contain a hedge at least
three feet in height, a berm four feet in height or a combination thereof. The
strip shall contain one tree for each 35 feet, or fraction thereof, of its
length. Trees shall be minimum six-foot tall evergreen trees and shall be of a
coniferous species which provides sufficient screening to neighboring areas.
         (b)   As an alternative screening measure, a six-foot to eight-foot
tall masonry wall or decorative screening fence may be substituted for the
landscaping requirement.
   (F)   Accessory dwelling units shall be subject to the following
regulations:
      (1)   One accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is permitted per parcel in the R-
1, R-2, LS, CM, MA, WS, and USG Districts, subject to the following standards.
It shall only be located on a parcel that contains a principal single-family
dwelling unit; ADUs shall not be permitted as an accessory use to a two-family
dwelling.
      (2)   Design. The ADU shall be designed so that the appearance of the
building remains that of a detached accessory structure, such as a garage or
carriage house. Structures shall be of high- quality, natural materials
complementing the principal dwelling unit (see §
154.059(G) and division (A)(4) of this section).
      (3)   Dimensional requirements. ADUs shall comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Minimum unit size: 250 square feet;
         (b)   Maximum unit size: 600 square feet;
         (c)   Setbacks and maximum height: same as accessory structures (see
§§
154.059(G) and
154.097(B)(7)).
      (4)   Access. Independent exterior access to the ADU is required.
Entrance(s) should be located on the side or rear of the structure; a front
entrance is permitted for an ADU located in the rear yard.
      (5)   Water and sewer. An ADU is not required to have a separate
connection to municipal water and sewer. An ADU will comply with REU
(residential equivalent unit) schedules as determined by the Village Council.
      (6)   Nonconforming structures. A nonconforming accessory building
existing prior to the effective date of this section may be converted to an ADU
as long as the change in use does not increase the nonconformity of the
structure including setbacks.
      (7)   Occupancy. Any ADU used for short-term rentals (less than 30 days)
shall be subject to all provisions of the short-term rental ordinance.
      (8)   Parking. An ADU will require off-street parking; see §
154.232.
      (9)   Conditions for occupancy. Prior to occupancy of an ADU, a building
permit, zoning compliance permit (see §
154.293) and a certificate of occupancy issued in accordance with §
154.294 must be obtained.
   (G)   Economy efficient dwellings shall be subject to the following
regulations:
      (1)   An EED may only be developed in a cluster with other EEDs, under
single common ownership or through a site condominium. Community buildings
serving the EED community may be permitted on the same lot.
      (2)   EED units shall be built on a permanent, approved foundation and be
made of high-quality, natural materials or engineered equivalent, and designed
to fit within a traditional neighborhood concept. Encouraged design elements
include pitched roofs with overhangs, aligned patterns of windows and doors,
and defined front entrances.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements for EED units.
         (a)   Building size (gross square feet): 250 (minimum) to 700
(maximum);
         (b)   Building height (stories/feet): 1/12 (minimum) to 1.5/20
(maximum);
         (c)   Distance between buildings: ten feet;
         (d)   Setbacks – same as the underlying zoning district.
      (4)   Water and sewer. An EED will comply with REU (residential
equivalent unit) schedules as determined by the Village Council.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010, § 4.7.1; Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 12-19-
2023; Ord. passed 12-19-2023) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.076 RETAIL AND SERVICES.
   (A)   Drive-in or drive-through businesses shall be designed in a manner
which promotes pedestrian and vehicular safety and subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The lot shall be located on a major street.
      (3)   A use with an accessory drive-through window shall not be located
within 300 feet of another use with a drive-through window or an auto service
use. This requirement does not apply to automobile service stations or a drive-
through service accessory to a bank, loan or financial office in the Union
Street Gateway District.
      (4)   Access to the site shall be provided as follows.
         (a)   Ingress and egress shall be provided from a major street, and
all local traffic movement shall be accommodated within the site so that
entering and exiting vehicles will make normal and uncomplicated movements into
or out of the public thoroughfare.
         (b)   All ingress and egress points shall be located not closer than
150 feet from the intersection of any two streets or highways.
         (c)   No driveway shall be located nearer than 30 feet, as measured
along the property line, to any other driveway providing access to or from the
drive-in business.
         (d)   All driveways providing ingress or egress to a drive-in business
shall be not more than 30 feet wide at the property line.
         (e)   No ingress or egress shall be so arranged that vehicles can
enter or leave the area only by backing on or across any sidewalk or back into
any street.
      (5)   Drive-through stacking space shall be provided as follows.
         (a)   Each stacking lane shall be one-way, and each stacking lane
space shall be a minimum of ten feet in width and 20 feet in length.
         (b)   There shall be a minimum of four stacking spaces per drive-
through lane.
         (c)   If proposed, an escape lane shall be a minimum of 12 feet in
width to allow other vehicles to pass those waiting to be served. In no case
shall stacking lanes block access to the parking lot or a driveway exit.
         (d)   All stacking lanes must be clearly delineated through the use of
striping, landscaping, curbing and/or signage.
      (6)   The parking and traffic circulation plan for the lot shall be
submitted to the Village Street Administrator for review, and sufficient
measures shall be taken to provide for one-way traffic flow where recommended.
      (7)   Where the lot abuts a residential district, a buffer strip shall be
provided in accordance with the applicable district in the form-based code
regulations.
      (8)   All waste disposal areas, including containers, shall be screened
with an obscuring wood or masonry wall from abutting residential properties and
public streets.
      (9)   All such uses must be shown to have received appropriate approvals
by the County Health Department.
      (10)   Drive-in theaters shall be enclosed for their full periphery with
a solid screen fence at least six feet in height. Fences shall be of sound
construction, painted or otherwise finished neatly and inconspicuously.
      (11)   All fenced-in areas shall be set back at least 100 feet from any
front street or property line.
   (B)   Building supplies sales, lumber yards, garden and lawn supply stores
and other similar retail uses with outdoor storage, machinery sales, farm or
industrial and feed and fertilizer sales and storage shall be subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   A five-foot tall ornamental fence or wall shall be constructed
along the rear and sides of the lot, capable of keeping debris from blowing off
the premises.
      (2)   Storage areas shall be hard-surfaced or constructed of a substitute
acceptable to the Planning Commission, except the Planning Commission may allow
a gravel surface where dust control measures are utilized.
      (3)   Storage or materials display areas shall meet all the yard setback
requirements applicable to buildings in the district.
      (4)   No banners, pennants, flags, streamers or other attention-getting
devices shall be permitted.
      (5)   Outdoor speakers shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Kennels shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The applicant will demonstrate that the kennel complies with the
Animal Control and Protection Ordinance, County of Jackson, Michigan, Ord. No.
1.
      (2)   The applicant will submit a signed statement acknowledging receipt,
and understanding of, a copy of Ch. 90 (Animals) and Ch. 91 (General Nuisances)
of this code.
(Ord. passed  7-17-2018 , § 4.7.2) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.077 AUTO SERVICES.
   Automobile service stations, carwashes, major vehicle repair and minor
automobile or recreational vehicle maintenance and storage facilities shall be
subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   The minimum lot area is 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum street frontage is 100 feet.
   (C)   An auto service use shall not be located within 300 feet of another
auto service use or a use with a drive-through window.
   (D)   Ingress and egress to any outdoor sales area shall be at least 60 feet
from the intersection of two streets.
   (E)   Exterior lighting shall be hooded or shielded so as to be deflected
away from adjacent property in accordance with §
154.060(G) of this code.
   (F)   All repair shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
   (G)   Storage of vehicles awaiting repair shall be limited to not more than
five such vehicles for each repair bay. In no case shall vehicles be stored for
a period in excess of 15 days. Storage of wrecked or partially dismantled
vehicles shall only be permitted within a building or a storage area that is
located in the side or rear yard and screened on all sides by a minimum six-
foot tall wall.
   (H)   There shall be no outdoor storage or display of vehicle components,
parts, supplies or equipment.
(Ord. passed  5-20-2009 , § 4.7.3) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.078 LODGING AND RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments, tourist homes. Bed and breakfast
establishments and tourist homes shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The bed and breakfast establishment shall be owner-occupied.
      (2)   Food service licenses from the County Health Department are
required.
      (3)   No separate cooking facilities for individual rooms are allowed.
      (4)   Adequate sanitary and bath facilities are provided.
      (5)   Adequate parking shall be provided according to § 154.232 of this
code.
   (B)   Hotels and motels. Hotels and motels shall be subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   A swimming pool, tennis court or similar recreational activity may
be established in conjunction with the hotel or motel, providing that no charge
is made for its use.
      (2)   A hotel or motel shall not be located within 300 feet from any
adjacent residential district.
      (3)   Access should be provided so as not to conflict with adjacent
businesses or adversely affect traffic flow.
      (4)   Each unit shall contain not less than 250 square feet of floor
area.
      (5)   The property must abut a major street and provide access to this
major street.
      (6)   No kitchen or cooking facilities are to be provided, with the
exception of units for the use
of the caretaker or manager.
   (C)   Restaurants with outdoor seating. Restaurants with outdoor seating
shall be subject to the following conditions. In the case of an existing
restaurant adding outdoor seating, a site plan shall be submitted for review by
the Zoning Administrator to determine if the standards are met. In the case of
a new restaurant, the Planning Commission shall review the following standards
during the site plan approval process.
      (1)   The seating area shall be delineated with railings or ornamental
walls that are a minimum of three feet tall and screened from all adjacent
single-family residential uses by a six-foot fence or equivalent landscaping,
as approved during the site plan approval process.
      (2)   If located in the front yard of the building, pedestrian
circulation and access to the building entrance and along the sidewalk shall
not be impaired, with a minimum five-foot wide, unobstructed pedestrian pathway
maintained.
      (3)   The seating area shall be kept free of debris and litter. The site
plan must include a written description of the storage of tables, chairs, and
equipment when the outdoor seating is not in use.
      (4)   Outdoor seating shall be subject to review and approval by the Fire
Department.
      (5)   The hours of operation for the outdoor seating shall be included on
the site plan and subject to village approval.
      (6)   Additional signage shall not be permitted.
      (7)   Any area used for the outdoor preparation of food or beverages
shall be approved by the Planning Commission and the Health Department. The
preparation area shall be integrated into the site and located so as to not
impact adjacent uses.
      (8)   Confirmation of appropriate liquor licenses shall be submitted to
the village, if proposed.
   (D)   Drive-through and drive-in restaurants. For drive-through and drive-in
restaurant provisions, see § 154.076(A) of this code.
   (E)   Breweries, wineries, distilleries and the like. Microbreweries,
breweries, small wineries, wineries, small distilleries and distilleries shall
be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Such facilities may contain a restaurant, bar or tasting room as an
accessory use. Outdoor seating may be allowed, subject to division (C) above.
      (2)   For production areas (brewing, wine-making or distilling), off-
street parking as required for manufacturing per § 154.232 of this code shall
be provided. For restaurant, bar or tasting room areas, off-street parking as
required for restaurants per § 154.232 of this code shall be provided.
      (3)   All production (brewing, wine making or distilling) activities
shall be conducted within an enclosed structure.
      (4)   The outdoor storage of machinery, equipment, barrels, kegs or
similar materials associated with the operation shall only be allowed within an
area surrounded by a solid, unpierced fence or wall not to exceed six feet in
height and not closer to the lot lines than the minimum yard requirements for
buildings permitted in said districts.
      (5)   Appropriate licenses with the state shall be maintained.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2009, § 4.7.4; Ord. passed 9-17-2019; Ord. passed 12-19-2023)
Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.079 OFFICE AND FINANCIAL.
   Radio and television studios shall be subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   All broadcasting antennas or towers are set back one foot for every
foot that tower exceeds the height limitation of the district.
   (B)   No antennas or towers are allowed in the WS District.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010, § 4.7.5)
§ 154.080 MEDICAL AND CARE FACILITIES, SENIOR ASSISTED LIVING.
   (A)   Child care centers, senior assisted living centers. Child care centers
and senior assisted living centers shall be subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   There shall be provided and maintained a minimum of 200 square feet
of outdoor play area for each child or student.
      (2)   A minimum of 5,000 square feet of fenced outdoor play area shall be
provided.
      (3)   The maximum licensed capacity for a child care center in the R-1,
R-2, LS, CM, MA and WS Districts is 25 children.
   (B)   Group child day care homes. Group child day care homes shall be
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   This activity must take place in a single-family home.
      (2)   The lot must be a minimum of 7,500 square feet.
   (C)   Funeral homes, mortuaries. Funeral homes and mortuaries shall be
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   An adequate assembly area shall be provided off-street for vehicles
to be used in the funeral procession, provided further that such assembly area
shall be provided in addition to any off-street parking area.
      (2)   A landscaped, maintained transition strip of 15 feet in width shall
be provided on the side and rear yards, and said strip of 20 feet in width
shall be provided in the front yard.
      (3)   A caretaker’s residence may be provided within the main building of
the funeral home.
   (D)   Hospitals, nursing homes, orphanages and the like. Hospitals,
convalescent homes, nursing homes, orphanages, sanitariums and charitable
institutions for human care shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   All such institutions shall be developed only on sites consisting
of at least ten acres in area or 1,500 square feet per bed, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   The proposed site shall have at least one property line abutting a
major street. All ingress and egress to the off-street parking area for guests,
employees and staff, as well as other uses of the facilities, shall be directly
on said major street.
      (3)   In the event one or more boundaries of the proposed site lie
opposite or contiguous to a residential district, the minimum distances between
any hospital structure or accessory use and the residential district boundary
shall be at least 100 feet for buildings containing two stories or more.
      (4)   The minimum distance from any street line shall be not less than 40
feet for buildings containing two stories or less, while buildings above two
stories shall be set back an additional one foot for every five feet of height
above two stories.
      (5)   The minimum distance from any nonresidential lot line shall not be
less than 25 feet. Ambulance and delivery areas shall be obscured from all
residential view with a wall six feet in height.
      (6)   Noise-producing activities, such as ambulance and delivery areas,
shall be located not less than 500 feet from any residential area.
   (E)   Adult foster care facilities. Adult foster care facilities shall be
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   For adult foster care family homes:
         (a)   Adult foster care family homes shall be considered a residential
use of property and a permitted use in all residential districts; and
         (b)   Appropriate licenses with the state shall be maintained.
      (2)   For adult foster care small group homes and large group homes:
         (a)   A site plan prepared in accordance with §
154.189(A) of this code shall be submitted;
         (b)   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements
for the zoning district in which it is located, provided there is a minimum
site area of 1,500 square feet per adult, excluding employees and/or
caregivers;
         (c)   One off-street parking space per employee and/or caregiver shall
be provided;
         (d)   An on-site drop-off and pick-up area shall be required adjacent
to the main building entrance. Such area shall be of sufficient size so as not
to create congestion within the site or on an adjacent public street;
         (e)   The property shall be maintained in a manner consistent with the
character of the adjacent neighborhood; and
         (f)   Appropriate licenses with the state shall be maintained.
      (3)   For adult foster care congregate facilities:
         (a)   A site plan prepared in accordance with §
154.189(A) of this code shall be submitted;
         (b)   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements
for the zoning district in which it is located, provided there is a minimum
site area of 1,500 square feet per adult, excluding employees and/or
caregivers;
         (c)   Off-street parking as required for sanitariums and convalescent
homes per §
154.232 shall be provided;
         (d)   An on-site drop-off and pick-up area shall be required adjacent
to the main building entrance. Such area shall be of sufficient size so as not
to create congestion within the site or on an adjacent public street; and
         (e)   Appropriate licenses with the state shall be maintained.
(Ord. passed 11-23-2019, § 4.7.6)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.081 RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   Adult uses shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   No such use shall be located nearer than 500 feet from any
residence, church, school or park.
      (2)   No such use shall be located nearer than 500 feet from any other
adult use.
      (3)   The use shall not result in blight, nor an adverse effect on
health, safety, welfare or morals of the citizenry of the village.
   (B)   Bowling alleys, skating rinks, dance clubs, exercise clubs, amusement
arcades and similar uses shall be subject to the condition that they be placed
a minimum of 100 feet from any residentially-zoned district.
   (C)   Golf courses and accessory uses customarily associated with such use
shall be subject to the condition that a 50-foot buffer strip is placed around
the periphery, or any portion, of the golf course.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 4.7.7)
§ 154.082 CIVIC.
   (A)   Places of worship. Churches, synagogues and temples shall be subject
to the following.
      (1)   A landscaped, maintained transition strip of 15 feet in width shall
be provided on the side and rear, and 20 in width in the front yard.
      (2)   Such uses in the R-1, R-2, LS, CM, MA and WS Districts must also
adhere to the following.
         (a)   A minimum lot area of one acre is required.
         (b)   A minimum lot width of 150 feet is required.
         (c)   All structures shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from any
lot line.
   (B)   Elementary schools. Elementary schools shall be subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   There shall be provided and maintained a minimum of 150 square feet
of outdoor play area for each child or student.
      (2)   A minimum of 5,000 square feet of outdoor play area shall be
provided.
   (C)   Communications towers. Communications towers shall be subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   The following site and development requirements shall apply.
         (a)   The appropriateness of guy wires shall be considered when the
property abuts a residential zoning district or use.
         (b)   The base of the tower and guy wire supports (if any) shall be
fenced with a minimum six-foot high fence.
      (2)   The following special performance standards shall apply to
communications towers.
         (a)   All communications towers must meet the standards of the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
         (b)   The plans of the communications tower shall be certified by a
registered structural engineer.
         (c)   The applicant shall provide verification that the antenna mount
and structure have been reviewed and approved by a professional engineer and
that the installation is in compliance with all applicable codes.
         (d)   The base of the communications tower shall occupy not more than
500 square feet.
         (e)   The height of a communications tower shall not exceed 200 feet
from grade. Towers in excess of 100 feet in height above grade level shall be
prohibited within a two-mile radius of a public airport or one-half mile from a
helipad.
         (f)   A communications tower shall not be artificially lighted, except
as required by the Federal Aviation Administration. There shall not be
displayed advertising or identification of any kind intended to be visible from
the ground or other structures, except as required for emergency purposes.
         (g)   In no case shall a tower or antenna be located within 30 feet of
a property line.
         (h)   Communications towers shall be located so that they do not
interfere with reception in nearby residential areas and so there is room for
vehicles doing maintenance to maneuver on the property owned and/or leased by
the applicant.
         (i)   All towers shall be equipped with an anti-climbing device to
prevent unauthorized access. Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated
with, corrosive-resistant material.
         (j)   Communications towers shall be grounded for protection against a
direct strike by lightning and shall comply as to electric wiring and
connections with applicable local statutes, regulations and standards. In
addition, they shall be designed to withstand a uniform wind loading.
         (k)   All signals and remote control conductors of low energy
extending substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight feet above the ground at
all points unless buried underground.
         (l)   Accessory structures are limited to uses associated with the
operation of the tower, shall not exceed 600 square feet of gross area and may
not be located within 20 feet of any property line.
         (m)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum
extent practicable.
         (n)   There shall be no employees located on the site on a permanent
basis to service or maintain the communications tower. Occasional or temporary
repair and service activities are excluded from this restriction.
         (o)   The policy of the community is to minimize the number of
communications towers in the village. Therefore, the village shall require the
collocation of communications towers. Pursuant to this policy, the following
standards apply to communications towers.
            1.   All new and modified communications towers shall be designed
and constructed so as to accommodate collocation.
            2.   A conditional use permit for the construction and use of a new
communications tower shall not be granted unless and until the applicant
demonstrates that a feasible collocation is not available for the coverage area
and capacity needs.
      (3)   The following information shall be submitted prior to village
approval to construct a communications tower:
         (a)   A site plan in accordance with §
154.189 of this code;
         (b)   A maintenance plan, and any applicable maintenance agreement,
shall be presented and approved as part of the site plan for the proposed
communications tower. Such plan shall be designed to ensure the long-term,
continuous maintenance to a reasonably prudent standard;
         (c)   The application shall include a description of security to be
posted at the time of receiving a building permit for the communications tower
to ensure removal of the facility when it has been abandoned or is no longer
needed. In this regard, the Village Planning Commission shall specify the form
of security, as approved by the Village Attorney and recordable at the office
of the County Register of Deeds, establishing a promise of the applicant and
owner of the property to remove the facility in a timely manner as required
under this section, with the further provision that the applicant and owner
shall be responsible for the payment of any costs and attorney fees incurred by
the community in securing removal. The security shall be adjusted on an annual
basis according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Consumer Price Index
annual average for United States cities in the North Central Region of the
United States; and
         (d)   The name, address and phone number of the person to contact for
engineering, maintenance and other notice purposes. This information shall be
continuously updated during all times the facility is located within the
village.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2000, § 4.7.8)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.083 INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Automobile wrecking, salvage yards. Automobile wrecking and salvage
yards shall be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   No portion of the wrecking and salvage operation may be closer than
200 feet from any residentially-zoned property.
      (2)   (a)   The open storage of any industrial equipment, vehicles and
materials, including wastes, shall be screened from public view from a public
street by an enclosure consisting of an obscuring wall or fence not less than
eight feet in height.
         (b)   Whenever such open storage is adjacent to a residential zone in
either a front, side or rear lot line relationship, whether immediately
abutting or across a right-of-way from such zone, there shall be provided an
obscuring masonry wall or obscuring fence of at least eight feet in height.
      (3)   No vehicles intended for dismantling or storage shall be stored
outside of the obscured open storage area for a period greater than one day.
      (4)   The stacking of vehicles to a height exceeding eight feet is
prohibited.
      (5)   There shall be emission of no noxious, toxic or corrosive fumes or
gases in such concentrations so as to be detrimental to or endanger the public
health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury to property or business.
      (6)   All outdoor storage shall comply with §
154.166 of this code and all other village ordinances.
      (7)   All waste, including oil, fuel, grease or any other substances,
shall be disposed of in a safe and sanitary manner.
      (8)   No such use shall carry on any operation that would produce heat
and glare beyond the boundary line of the industrial district.
      (9)   No such use shall use lighting in a manner that produces glare on
public highways and/or neighboring property.
   (B)   Explosives, flammable liquid bulk storage. Bulk storage of explosives
or flammable liquids shall be subject to the condition that a permit for such
activity is obtained from the state’s Department of State Police, Fire
Marshal’s Office.
   (C)   Contractor’s yards for vehicles, equipment and materials.
      (1)   No portion of the wrecking and salvage operation may be closer than
200 feet from any residentially-zoned property.
      (2)   The open storage of any industrial equipment, vehicles and
materials, including wastes, shall be screened from public view from a public
street by an enclosure consisting of an obscuring wall or fence not less than
eight feet in height. Whenever such storage is adjacent to a residential zone
in either a front, rear or side lot line relationship, whether immediately
abutting or across a right-of-way from such zone, there shall be provided an
obscuring masonry wall or obscuring fence of at least eight feet in height.
      (3)   No vehicle, equipment or materials may be stored outside of the
obscured open storage area for a period to exceed one day.
      (4)   All outdoor storage of materials shall comply with §
154.166 of this code and all other village ordinances.
   (D)   Helicopter landing pads.
      (1)   All such pads shall be located not nearer than 200 feet from any
residential zoning district.
      (2)   All requirements of the Federal Aeronautics Administration (FAA)
concerning the placement, operation, maintenance and other requirements of such
pads shall be met.
      (3)   The helicopter pad shall be located on the parcel to minimize
potential negative effects of noise, air movement and blowing dust and debris.
      (4)   Aircraft refueling, repair, maintenance and storage shall be
prohibited.
      (5)   Landing and take-off approach to pad shall not be permitted over
residential zones.
   (E)   Recycling collection centers. Recycling collection centers shall be
subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The site is located on a major street with a minimum 80-foot public
right-of-way.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may establish the days and hours of
operation.
      (3)   No burning, melting or other reclamation shall be permitted.
      (4)   A site plan shall be submitted showing how the sign, lighting,
landscaping and fencing requirements of the Zoning Ordinance shall be met. The
site plan shall also show traffic circulation on the site.
      (5)   No materials shall be stored or deposited on the premises in such
form or manner that they may be transferred off the premises by natural causes
or forces. No storage of materials shall be allowed outside of semitrailers,
bins, barrels or other appropriate containers.
      (6)   The site shall be kept clean and free of litter and debris. Weeds
shall be controlled.
      (7)   Rodents and other pests shall be controlled.
      (8)   Activity on the site shall be located at least 100 feet from any
residentially-zoned district.
   (F)   Mini-storage warehousing. Mini-storage warehousing shall be subject to
the following conditions.
      (1)   No building shall exceed 16 feet in height measured from the ground
to the top of a wall.
      (2)   No single structure shall exceed 5,000 square feet in area, and
each individual unit shall not exceed 500 square feet in area.
      (3)   The minimum setback adjacent to any residential zoning district
shall be 50 feet.
      (4)   All traffic ingress-egress shall be on a major street.
      (5)   Vehicular ingress-egress shall be limited to one point for each
side of property abutting any street or lot line.
      (6)   Parking shall be provided by parking/driving lanes adjacent to the
buildings. These lanes shall be at least 20 feet wide when cubicles open onto
one side of the lane only and at least 24 feet wide when cubicles open onto
both sides of the lanes.
      (7)   If an on-site manager is to be provided:
         (a)   Two parking spaces shall be provided adjacent to the manager’s
quarters;
         (b)   One space for every 200 storage cubicles, or fraction thereof,
shall be located adjacent to the project office. A minimum of two such spaces
shall be provided; and
         (c)   Required parking spaces may not be rented as, or used for, boat
or vehicular storage.
      (8)   Outdoor advertising displays that do not identify the nature of the
self-service storage facility itself shall not be permitted on the premises.
Outdoor self-service storage identification advertising displays shall be in
accordance with
Ch. 152 of this code and shall not in any way exceed the maximum size, height
and setback, if applicable.
      (9)   All outdoor lights shall be shielded to direct light and glare only
onto the self-service facility premises in accordance with §
154.060(G) of this code.
      (10)   All storage shall be within an enclosed building.
      (11)   (a)   The repair, construction or reconstruction of any boat,
engine, motor vehicle or furniture is prohibited. The storage of any propane or
gasoline engine or propane or gasoline storage tank is also prohibited, except
when such tank is attached in a usual manner to a recreational vehicle, boat,
motorcycle or other such vehicle used for recreational purposes.
         (b)   The prohibition of storage tanks is not intended to prohibit the
storage of recreational vehicles, boats, motorcycles or other such vehicles
used for recreational purposes. If such vehicles are to be stored within a
facility, it shall meet all applicable fire and building codes that have been
adopted by the village.
      (12)   No owner, operator or lessee of any self-service storage facility,
or portion thereof, shall offer for sale, or to sell, any item of personal
property or to conduct any type of commercial activity of any kind whatsoever,
other than leasing of the storage units, or permit the same to occur upon any
area designated as a self-service storage facility.
      (13)   Violation of any provision of the conditional uses listed above is
punishable by §
154.999 of this code.
      (14)   In order to ensure security and discourage loitering on the site,
the Village Council may require a six-foot chain-link fence to be erected along
the perimeter of the site.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 4.7.9; Ord. passed 10-6-1994; Ord. passed 5-20-2009)
Penalty, see §
154.999
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.095 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   R-1, Single-Family Residential District. The (R-1) Single-Family
Residential District is established as a district in which the principal use of
land is for single-family dwellings. The R-1 District is intended for the
retention of existing single-family neighborhoods and the protection of these
neighborhoods from conflicting and higher intensity uses.
   (B)   R-2, Two-Family Residential District. The (R-2) Two-Family Residential
District is established as a district intended to serve as a mixed low-density
residential and office district. The R-2 District is also intended to act as a
buffer between the Single-Family Residential District and higher intensity
districts.
   (C)   RM-1, Multiple-Family Residential District. The (RM-1) Multiple-Family
Residential District is established as a district in which the principal use of
land is for both lower and higher density residential uses and office uses. As
such, the RM-1 district is intended to act as both a mixed-density office/
residential district and as a buffer between R-1 and R-2 districts and
nonresidential zoning districts.
   (D)   OS-1, Open Space District. The (OS-1) Open Space District is
established as a district intended to serve the low-density residential and
recreational needs of the village. As such, the OS-1 District shall have larger
lot areas than other districts and shall include residential and recreational
uses as permitted uses.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 4.2.1)
§ 154.096 TABLE OF USES.
Use Districts Use Standards
Use                                             Districts         Use Standards
                                                R-1 R-2 RM-1 OS-1
Civic
Churches, synagogues, temples                   C   C   C    - -  §
                                                                  154.082(A)
Elementary schools                              C   C   C    - -  §
                                                                  154.082(B)
Public and private cemeteries                   P   P   P    - -
Public libraries and museums                    P   P   P    - -
Secondary schools and colleges                  P   P   P    - -
Lodging and Restaurants
Owner-occupied bed and breakfasts, tourist      C   C   C    - -  §
homes                                                             154.078(B)
Medical and Care Facilities
Adult foster care congregate facilities         - - - - C    - -  §
                                                                  154.080(E)
Adult foster care family homes                  P   P   P    P    §
                                                                  154.080(E)
Adult foster care large group homes             - - - - C    - -  §
                                                                  154.080(E)
Adult foster care small group homes             C   C   C    - -  §
                                                                  154.080(E)
Child care centers                              C   C   C    C    §
                                                                  154.080(A)
Family child day care homes                     P   P   P    P
Funeral homes and mortuaries                    - - C   C    - -  §
                                                                  154.080(C)
Group child day care homes                      C   C   C    - -  §
                                                                  154.080(B)
Office and Financial
Offices                                         - - P   - -  - -
Other
Accessory uses and buildings customarily
incidental to the principal uses and structures P   P   P    P
permitted herein
Recreation and Entertainment
Golf courses and customary accessory uses       - - - - - -  C    §
                                                                  154.081(C)
Public parks and/or playgrounds                 P   P   P    P
Residential Uses
Accessory dwelling units                        P   P   - -  - -  §
                                                                  154.075(F)
Economy efficient dwellings                     - - - - P    - -  §
                                                                  154.075(G)
Mobile home parks or subdivisions, in
accordance with Mobile Home Commission Act,     - - - - P    - -  §
Public Act 96 of 1987, being MCL 125.2301 et                      154.075(B)
seq., as amended
Multiple-family residential developments        - - - - P    - -
Single-family detached dwellings                P   P   P    P    §
                                                                  154.075(A)
Two-family dwellings and conversions of single- C   P   P    - -  §
family to two-family units                                        154.075(D)
Services
Home businesses                                 P   P   P    P    §
                                                                  154.075(C)
Kennels                                         - - - - - -  C    §
                                                                  154.076(C)
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010, § 4.2.2; Ord. passed 11-23-2019; Ord. passed 12-19-
2023; Ord. passed 12-19-2023)
§ 154.097 AREA, YARD, HEIGHT AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements generally. Area, yard, height and bulk requirements,
unless otherwise specified, shall follow the schedule of regulations below.
 
            Lot Requirements    Min. Setbacks (ft.)             Max. Building
                                                        Min.    Height (B)(6)
Zoning      Min.   Min.  Max.                           Floor   Princip Accesso
District    Lot    Lot   Lot                            Area    al      ry
            Area   Width Covera Front   Side    Rear    (sq.    Buildin Buildin
            (sq.   (ft.) ge                             ft.)    gs      gs (B)
            ft.)                                                        (7)
OS-1                            N/A     N/A     N/A             35 ft.
Open Space  43,560 100   N/A    (B)(5 ) (B)(5 ) (B)(5 ) N/A     or 2.5  16 ft.
                                                                stories
R-1                                                             35 ft.
Single-     10,000 80    30%    30      8       45      1,000   or 2.5  16 ft.
Family                                                          stories
Residential
R-2                                     8       25              35 ft.
Two-Family  8,000  60    30%    25      (B)(3 ) (B)(3 ) (B)(1 ) or 2.5  16 ft.
Residential                                                     stories
RM-1                                    20      25      (B)(2
Multiple-   87,120 120   30%    25      (B)(2   (B)(2   ), (4), 35 ft.  16 ft.
Family      (B)(9)              (B)(4 ) ), (4)  ), (4)  (9)
Residential
 
   (B)   Footnotes to schedule of regulations.
      (1)   The minimum square footage of residential units in the R-2 Zoning
District shall be as follows:
         (a)   One-family residential: 1,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Duplexes and conversions: 650 square feet per living unit.
      (2)   Multiple-family developments shall follow the following guidelines.
         (a)   Where a multiple-family development is adjacent to an R-1 or R-
2 District, a 60-foot setback shall be required from all R-1 and R-2 Zoning
District boundary lines.
         (b)   The minimum square footage for apartment units shall be as
follows.
 
Efficiency 550 sq. ft.
1 bedroom  650 sq. ft.
2 bedrooms 750 sq. ft.
3 bedrooms 900 sq. ft.
4 bedrooms 1,050 sq. ft.
 
         (c)   On a site that contains multiple apartment buildings, there
shall be a minimum 35-foot spacing between all buildings.
         (d)   A minimum land area of 4,200 square feet shall be required for
each dwelling unit in the RM-1 District.
         (e)   The maximum number of living units in each building shall be 16.
         (f)   1.   When a multiple-family development lies adjacent to any R-
1, R-2 or OS-1 District, a minimum ten-foot wide, landscaped strip shall be
provided. This strip shall contain a hedge at least three feet in height, a
berm four feet in height or a combination thereof. The strip shall contain one
tree for each 35 feet, or fraction thereof, of its length. Trees shall be
minimum six-foot tall evergreen trees and shall be of a coniferous species
which provides sufficient screening to neighboring areas.
            2.   As an alternative screening measure, a six-foot to eight-foot
tall masonry wall or decorative screening fence may be substituted for the
landscaping requirement.
      (3)   When offices in the R-2 District abut an R-1 or R-2 residential
property, the following landscape shall be provided:
         (a)   A landscaped strip not less than ten feet wide with one tree for
each 35 feet, or fraction thereof, of the common boundary of abutting
residential property and a continuous screen at least three feet high measured
from the surface of the ground consisting of either a hedge, berm or
combination thereof; and
         (b)   Parking lots that are visible from the public right-of-way must
include the following between the parking lot and the right-of-way (applies to
public alleys only when a residential use or zone is located across the public
alley):
            1.   A landscaped strip at least five feet in width;
            2.   One tree for every 35 feet, or fraction thereof, of street
frontage of the parking lot; and
            3.   A hedge forming a continuous screen at least three feet above
the street grade, or a berm, wall, fence or combination forming a continuous
screen at least 30 inches above the street grade, and located in the buffer
area to provide maximum screening of the parking lot.
      (4)   One-family dwellings in the RM-1 District shall follow the area,
yard and bulk requirements as set forth in the R-1 District, and two-family
dwellings shall follow the area, yard and bulk requirements as set forth in the
R-2 District. R-1 and R-2 uses shall not be required to provide landscaping,
parking, open space and other requirements as required for multiple-family
developments as shown in appropriate sections of this chapter.
      (5)   Single-family residences in the OS-1 District are subject to the
same setbacks as required for the R-1 District.
      (6)   Building height for both principal and accessory buildings shall be
measured as the vertical distance measured from the elevation of the average
grade around the building to the roof as follows:
         (a)   To the average height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and
gambrel roofs;
         (b)   To the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs;
         (c)   To the deck line of mansard roofs; and
         (d)   To the average height between the lowest point and the highest
point on a shed roof.
      (7)   Accessory buildings shall be subject to the following regulations.
         (a)   When the accessory building is structurally attached to the
principal building, it shall be subject to all regulations applicable to the
principal building.
         (b)   Accessory buildings in a side or rear yard must be set back at
least three feet from any side or rear lot line. Accessory buildings shall not
be permitted in the front yard.
         (c)   Accessory buildings shall be separated a minimum of ten feet
from any other building, including the principal building and any other
buildings on adjacent lots.
         (d)   An accessory building shall be constructed of materials similar
to those of the principal building. An accessory building shall be compatible
in design and appearance to principal and accessory buildings in the
surrounding area.
      (8)   For waterfront yards, the minimum setback from the shoreline shall
be equal to the average setback of adjacent dwellings, determined by a straight
line drawn between the two adjacent buildings; provided, if adjacent dwellings
are set back more than 30 feet, then the required minimum setback shall be 30
feet. If one or both of the adjacent lots are vacant, then the required minimum
setback shall be 30 feet.
      (9)   Economy efficient dwellings (EEDs) shall be subject to the
following regulations:
         (a)   An EED may only be developed in a cluster with other EEDs, under
single common ownership or through a site condominium. Community buildings
serving the EED community may be permitted on the same lot.
         (b)   Dimensional requirements. 
            1.   Building size (gross square feet): 250 (minimum) to 700
(maximum);
            2.   Building height (stories/feet): 1/12 (minimum) to 1.5/20
(maximum);
            3.   Distance between buildings: ten feet;
            4.   Setbacks: same as the underlying zoning district.
         (c)   Site design. EEDs shall be clustered together on a single
parcel, subject to the following requirements:
            1.   A minimum lot area of 10,000 square feet shall be required for
an EED cluster comprising at least, but no more than, four EEDs. For each 1,500
square feet of lot area in excess of 10,000 square feet, a maximum of one
additional EED may be included in the cluster.
            2.   Buildings shall be arranged and clustered to maximize
opportunities for shared circulation, parking, loading, pedestrian walks, and
access to open space. The overall design of the cluster should be oriented
toward a primary street.
            3.   Sidewalk access to the front of each unit must be included
from the primary street, parking areas, and open space.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2010, § 4.2.3; Ord. passed 12-19-2023)
MU-1, MUNICIPAL UTILITIES DISTRICT
§ 154.110 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The MU-1 (Municipal Utilities) District is established as a district
intended to include all properties involved in support of the municipal
utilities system and provision of essential services to the residents of the
village.
(Ord. passed 1-17-2000, § 4.4.1)
§ 154.111 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   The following provisions apply in the Municipal Utilities District. Any use
not expressly permitted is prohibited.
   (A)   Structures involved in provision of essential utility services,
including municipal water wells, distribution facilities and towers; electrical
substations; telephone switching facilities; Department of Public Works
buildings and material storage areas; wastewater treatment facilities; and
   (B)   Government buildings.
(Ord. passed  1-17-2000 , § 4.4.2)
§ 154.112 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed and subject to the review and approval of the Planning Commission, in
accordance with §§
154.205 to 154.212 of this code: communications towers, including cellular
communications, subject to the conditions set forth in §
154.082(C) of this code.
(Ord. passed  1-17-2000 , § 4.4.3)
§ 154.113 AREA, YARD, HEIGHT AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements generally. Area, yard, height and bulk requirements,
unless otherwise specified, shall follow the schedule of regulations below.
 
          Lot Requirements       Min. Yard                Max. Building
                                 Requirements (ft.) Min.  Height
Zoning    Min.                                      Floor
District  Lot  Min. Lot Max. Lot                    Area  Principal Accessory
          Area Width    Coverage Front Side Rear    (sq.  Buildings Buildings
          (sq. (ft.)                                ft.)
          ft.)
MU-                                                       35 ft. or
1         N/A  N/A      N/A      20    N/A  N/A     N/A   2.5       35 ft.
Municipal                              (B)  (B)           stories
Utilities
 
   (B)   Footnotes. When MU-1 developments abut residential districts, a ten-
foot landscaping strip shall be provided. This strip shall contain a hedge at
least three feet in height, or a berm four feet in height, or a combination
thereof. The strip will also contain one tree for every 35 feet of its length.
Trees shall be at least two and one-half inches in caliper at root ball and
shall be of a coniferous species which provides sufficient screening to
neighboring areas.
(Ord. passed  1-17-2000 , § 4.4.4)
PUD, PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 154.140 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter provide enabling authority and
standards for the submission, review and approval of applications for planned
unit developments. The purpose of this subchapter is to permit flexibility in
the regulation of land development; encourage the use of land in accordance
with its character and adaptability; encourage innovation in land use and
variety in design, layout and type of structures constructed; achieve economy
and efficiency in the use of land, natural resources and energy and the
provision of public services and utilities; encourage provision of useful open
space; provide enhanced employment, housing, shopping and traffic circulation
to meet the needs of the residents of the village; encourage the use, reuse and
improvement of existing sites and buildings when uniform regulations contained
in base zoning districts do not provide adequate protection and safeguards for
the site or surrounding area; and bring about a greater compatibility of design
and use between neighboring properties.
   (B)   To that end, the provisions of this subchapter are intended to result
in land use development substantially consistent with the underlying zoning,
with modifications and departures from generally applicable requirements made
in accordance with standards provided in this subchapter to ensure appropriate,
fair and consistent decision making.
(Ord. passed 9-27-1999, § 4.8.1)
§ 154.141 LOCATION OF THE PUD OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT.
   A PUD District is hereby established and shall be located as an overlay
district in any residential or open space zoning district of the village. This
overlay district is intended to replace the underlying zoning districts upon
formal application to the Planning Commission and approval of the Village
Council. Denial of an application for PUD shall not change the underlying
zoning district and regulations.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.2)
§ 154.142 PUD PERMITTED USES.
   All residential uses may be permitted in the PUD Overlay District in
accordance with regulations stated below. All PUD projects must be compatible
with the spirit and intent of the Master Plan and must not result in any
unreasonable economic impact upon surrounding properties in the underlying
zoning districts.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.3)
§ 154.143 PUD REGULATIONS.
   The applicant for a PUD must demonstrate, as a condition to being entitled
to PUD approval, that:
   (A)   Granting of the PUD overlay zoning will result in a recognizable and
substantial benefit to the ultimate users of the project and to the community,
where such benefit would otherwise be unfeasible or unlikely to be achieved;
   (B)   In relation to underlying zoning, the proposed type of density of use
shall not result in an unreasonable increase in the use of public services,
facilities and utilities and shall not place an unreasonable burden upon the
subject and/or surrounding land and/or property owners and occupants and/or the
natural environment;
   (C)   The proposed development shall be consistent with the Village Master
Plan and shall be consistent with the intent and spirit of this chapter;
   (D)   The proposed development shall not result in any unreasonable negative
economic impact upon surrounding properties; and
   (E)   The proposed development shall contain at least as much usable open
space as would be required in this chapter in relation to the most dominant use
in the development.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.4)
§ 154.144 PUD OWNERSHIP.
   The entire parcel for which application is made must be under one ownership
or the application must be made with the written authorization of all property
owners.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.5)
§ 154.145 PROJECT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Based upon the following standards, the Planning Commission may recommend
denial or approval, and the Village Council may deny or approve the proposed
PUD.
   (A)   Subject to division (A)(1) below, all ordinances applicable to lot
size, lot width, lot coverage, setback, minimum floor area, building height,
parking and loading, general provisions and to other requirements and
facilities shall be as follows.
      (1)   Single-family detached residential uses shall meet the ordinances
applicable in the R-1, R-2 or OS-1 Districts.
      (2)   Multiple-family residential uses shall meet the ordinances
applicable in the RM-1 District.
   (B)   Consistent with the planned unit development concept, and to encourage
flexibility and creativity, departures from compliance with the regulations
above may be granted at the discretion of the Village Planning Commission as
part of the approval of a planned unit development. Departures may be
authorized on the condition that there are features or planning mechanisms
deemed adequate by the Village Planning Commission designed into the project to
achieve the objectives intended with respect to each of the ordinances being
departed from.
   (C)   The development shall be designed so as to promote preservation of
natural resources and natural features.
   (D)   The Village Planning Commission shall take into account the following
considerations and ensure compliance with all relevant applicable ordinances:
perimeter setback and berming; thoroughfare, drainage and utility design;
underground installation of utilities; pedestrian circulation system and an
integrated development with respect to signage, lighting, landscaping and
building materials.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.6)
§ 154.146 PROCEDURE FOR PUD REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The granting of a planned unit development application shall require a
rezoning, that is, an amendment of the Zoning Map constituting a part of this
chapter, so as to designate the property which is the subject of the
application as planned unit development. Further, an approval granted under
this section, including all aspects of the final plan and conditions imposed,
shall constitute an inseparable part of the zoning amendment.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold a hearing at which the
petitioner shall present the proposed PUD development plan, and the Planning
Commission shall provide the petitioner with its comments within 30 days after
holding such a hearing. No fees shall be charged for said preliminary hearing.
      (2)   The petitioner shall next submit to the Clerk five copies of the
PUD development plan, together with the base application fee. Copies of the
plan as submitted shall be distributed to the appropriate reviewing agencies
(for example, the Village Engineer, the Village Planning Consultant, the County
Drain Commissioner, the state’s Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and
Energy (if wetlands are involved) and the like) for review to determine if the
development concept can be accommodated by the existing public utility, street
and general service facilities as necessary for the project and determine if
additional impact studies are required. Any costs incurred for additional
reviews are the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Chairperson of the Planning Commission or Village Clerk shall
notify the petitioner of any questions raised by the reviewing agencies during
said review and shall submit like information to the Planning Commission for
its consideration, along with a report from the Village Planning Consultant
which evaluates the planning aspects of the project and its impact on the
present and future development of that part of the village in which it is
located.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall, after holding public hearings on
said PUD development plan, noticed in accordance with §
154.296 of this code, and reviewing said reports, make its recommendation to
the Village Council on said plan within 60 days of its date of filing unless
said time is agreed to be extended by the petitioner in writing; provided that
the Planning Commission may extend this time for periods not to exceed 30 days
each if such extensions are necessary for adequate review.
      (5)   If the PUD development plan is rejected by the Planning Commission,
its reasons therefore shall be specified in a letter from the Planning
Commission to the applicant.
      (6)   The Planning Commission’s recommendations and all related reports
shall be submitted to the Village Council for its consideration. The Council
shall, after holding a public hearing on the PUD development plan and petition,
noticed in accordance with §
154.296 of this code, take final action on said plan and petition within 30
days of the date it receives a report from the Planning Commission or such
reasonable extension of time as may be necessary for adequate review.
      (7)   If the site plan is rejected by the Council, its reasons shall be
based upon the standards of review listed above, specified in writing and
approved by the Council.
      (8)   Approval of the final PUD site plan by the Council shall constitute
approval of the rezoning request and shall entitle the applicant to apply for
building permits.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.7)
§ 154.147 PUD APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Preliminary plans shall include the following:
      (1)   Applicant’s name and address;
      (2)   The name of the proposed development;
      (3)   Common description of property and complete legal description;
      (4)   Dimensions of land: width, length, acreage and frontage;
      (5)   Existing zoning and zoning of all adjacent properties;
      (6)   Statement of intent of proposed use of land and any phasing of the
project;
      (7)   Name, address, city and phone number of: firm or individual who
prepared the plan, owner of the property and applicant, if other than the
owner;
      (8)   Existing and proposed right-of-way width of all adjoining and
internal roads and layout of all internal roads;
      (9)   Proposed acceleration, deceleration and passing lanes;
      (10)   Location of existing drainage courses, flood plains, lakes,
streams and wetlands;
      (11)   Intentions with respect to water and sewer;
      (12)   All parking areas and number of spaces by size;
      (13)   The number and location of areas to be preserved as open or
recreational space;
      (14)   All known natural resources and natural features to be preserved;
      (15)   Fair representation of the development concept, including each
type of use, square footage or acreage allocated to each use, approximate
location of each principal structure and use in the development, setbacks,
typical layout and elevation for each type of use;
      (16)   Specification of each deviation from the applicable chapter
regulations which will be sought to be approved, and the safeguards, features
and/or planning mechanisms proposed to achieve the objectives intended to be
accomplished by the regulation from which a deviation is being sought; and
      (17)   The Planning Commission and/or Village Council may require a
topographical map if the size of the project and/or nature of the topography
indicates that such document would be meaningful to review.
   (B)   Final site plans shall include the following:
      (1)   All requirements for site plan review under this chapter;
      (2)   A site plan showing the type, location and density of all uses;
      (3)   All open spaces, including preserves, recreational areas and the
like, and each purpose proposed for such areas;
      (4)   Evidence of market need for the use(s) and economic feasibility of
the project;
      (5)   A separately delineated specification of all deviations from this
chapter which would otherwise be applicable to the uses and development
proposed in the absence of this planned unit development section. This
specification should include chapter provisions from which deviations are
sought, and if the applicant elects to be governed by §§
154.140 to
154.151 of this code, the reasons and mechanisms to be utilized for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare in lieu of the regulations
from which deviations are sought shall be specified;
      (6)   In the event the property on which the project is to be situated
consists of 25 acres or more, a community impact statement may be required as
part of the application;
      (7)   A detailed landscaping plan; and
      (8)   A specific schedule of the intended development and construction
details, including phasing or timing, and the general improvements to
constitute a part of the development, including, without limitation, lighting,
signage, the mechanisms designed to reduce noise, utilities and visual
screening features.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.8)
§ 154.148 PUD CONDITIONS.
   Reasonable conditions may be required with the approval of planned unit
development, to the extent authorized by law, for the purpose of ensuring that
public services and facilities affected by a proposed land use or activity will
be capable of accommodating increased services and facility loads caused by the
land use or activity, protecting the natural environment and conserving natural
resources and energy, ensuring compatibility with adjacent uses of land and
promoting the use of land in a socially and economically desirable manner.
Conditions imposed shall be designed to protect natural resources and the
public health, safety and welfare of individuals in the project, and those
immediately adjacent and the community as a whole, shall be reasonably related
to the purposes affected by the planned unit development and shall be necessary
to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter and be related to the objective
of ensuring compliance with the standards of this chapter. All conditions
imposed shall be made a part of the record of the approved planned unit
development.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.9)
§ 154.149 PHASING AND COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Phasing. Where a project is proposed for construction in phases, the
planning and designing shall be such that, upon completion, each phase shall be
capable of standing on its own in terms of the presence of services, facilities
and open space and shall contain the necessary components to ensure protection
of natural resources and the health, safety and welfare of the users of the
planned unit development and the residents of the surrounding area.
   (B)   Commencement and completion of construction.
      (1)   Construction shall be commenced within one year following final
approval of a planned unit development, or within one year of any other
necessary approvals which have been actively pursued. Each phase of the project
shall be commenced within one year of the schedule established for same in the
application submitted for the planned unit development.
      (2)   If construction is not commenced within such time, any approval of
the final plan for the project shall expire and be null and void, provided an
extension for a specified period may be granted by the Village Council upon
good cause shown if such request is made to the Village Council prior to the
expiration of the initial period. Moreover, in the event a final plan has
expired, the Village Council shall be authorized to rezone the property in any
reasonable manner, and if the property remains classified as planned unit
development, a new application shall be required and shall be reviewed in light
of the then-existing and applicable law and ordinance provisions.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.10)
§ 154.150 EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF PUD.
   If and when approved, the planned unit development amendment, with all
conditions imposed, if any, shall constitute the land use authorization for the
property, and all improvements and uses shall be in conformity with such
amendment. The applicant shall record an affidavit with the Register of Deeds
containing the legal description of the entire project, specifying the date of
approval of the planned unit development and declaring that all future
development of the planned unit development property has been authorized and
required to be carried out in accordance with the approved planned unit
development unless an amendment thereto is duly adopted by the village upon the
request and/or approval of the applicant’s transferees and/or assigns.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.11)
§ 154.151 PUD FEES.
   There shall be an advance payment of review fees at the time the preliminary
plan is submitted. No review fee shall be required for the preliminary hearing
with the Planning Commission, except for rezoning fees required upon
application for a rezoning. There shall also be an advance payment of review
fees at filing for the final plan. The amount of such fees shall be established
by the Village Council by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 4.8.12)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS GENERALLY
§ 154.165 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of §§
154.165 to
154.174,
154.185 to
154.194,
154.205 to
154.212,
154.225 to
154.234,
154.245 to
154.248,
154.260 to
154.262 and
154.275 to
154.278 of this chapter to provide regulations and requirement that supplement
the provisions contained under the respective district regulations in §§
154.040 to
154.043,
154.055 to
154.061,
154.075 to
154.083,
154.095 to
154.097,
154.110 to
154.113 and
154.140 to
154.151 of this code, and may, or may not, apply in all zoning districts.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.1)
§ 154.166 OUTDOOR STORAGE OF MATERIALS.
   The outdoor storage of abandoned, discarded, unused, unusable or inoperative
vehicles, appliances, furniture, equipment or material shall be regulated as
follows.
   (A)   On any lot in any residential district, the owner or tenant, but not
for hire or business, shall locate and store such materials within a completely
enclosed building.
   (B)   On any lot in any commercial or industrial district, whether or not
for hire or for business, shall locate and store such materials within a
completely enclosed building or within an area surrounded by a solid, unpierced
fence or wall not to exceed six feet in height and not closer to the lot lines
than the minimum yard requirements for buildings permitted in said districts.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall permit the storage or parking of any
vehicle or nonpermanent structure within the required front yard of any lot
within a residential district, except that the parking of passenger vehicles on
a driveway located on private property shall not be prohibited.
   (D)   This section is in no way intended to contradict the village’s
ordinance on the storage of motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.6) Penalty, see §
154.999
Cross-reference:
   Storage of motor vehicles, see
Ch. 93
§ 154.167 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On any corner lot in any zoning district requiring front and side yards, no
fence, wall, hedge, screen, sign, structure, vegetation or planting shall be
allowed to impede vision between a height of three feet and eight feet above
the centerline grades within the triangular area formed by the intersecting
street right-of-way lines and a straight line joining the two street lines at
points which are 30 feet distant from the point of intersection, measured along
the street right-of-way line.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.7) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.168 FENCES.
   Fences which enclose property shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   General fence standards.
      (1)   Fences are to be made of wood, metal, masonry or other commonly
recognized fencing materials, with each fence section securely anchored. Within
the C-2 District, only wood, wrought-iron, masonry or other materials approved
by the Planning Commission can be used.
      (2)   Fences shall not contain electric current or charges of electricity
unless the property abuts agriculturally-used land.
      (3)   Barbed wire, chicken wire and razor wire are prohibited.
      (4)   No fence, wall, tree or shrub shall be erected, placed, established
or maintained on any corner lot which will obstruct the view of a driver of a
vehicle approaching the intersection, as proscribed in §
154.167 of this code.
   (B)   Fences in residential and open space zoning districts.
      (1)   Except as otherwise regulated, fences in the R-1, R-2, OS-1, CM,
LS, MA and WS Districts, as well as residential uses in the USG Zoning
District, shall not exceed four feet in height from the front property line of
the property to the front of the dwelling. Fences shall not exceed six feet in
height from the front of the dwelling to the rear property line.
      (2)   Fences in the RM-1 Zoning District shall be constructed according
to the regulations found in §
154.097(B)(2)(f) of this code.
   (C)   Fences in commercial and industrial zoning districts.
      (1)   Except as otherwise regulated, fences in the GC, CBD and LI
Districts, and commercial uses in the USG Zoning District, erected along the
front property line shall not exceed six feet in height and may be of any type
permitted in division (A)(1) above except masonry walls, except in the case of
existing and occupied residential unit(s) in these districts, where the maximum
height shall be four feet in height from the front property line of the
property to the front of the main building on the lot.
      (2)   Fences along the sides and back of the building shall not exceed
six feet in height from the front property line to the front of the main
building on the lot; four feet for existing and occupied residential units(s).
      (3)   Fences shall be a maximum of eight feet from the front of the main
building to the rear property line.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 5.9) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.169 TEMPORARY USE.
   (A)   Circuses, carnivals or other transient enterprises may be permitted in
any district upon approval by the Board of Appeals based upon finding that the
location of such activity will not adversely affect adjoining properties, nor
adversely affect public health, safety, morals and the general public welfare.
   (B)   Temporary sales (garage sales, yard sales and other such sales) may be
permitted in any district, provided that no such sales activity shall extend
beyond seven days in any 30-day period.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.11) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.170 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the provision of essential service,
provided the installation of such service does not violate any other applicable
provision of this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit
the erection, construction or enlargement of any building, tower or maintenance
depot for provision of an essential service, except as otherwise permitted in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.12)
§ 154.171 CURB CUTS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   Curb cuts and driveways may be located only upon approval by the Zoning
Inspector and such other municipal, county and state authorities as required by
law; provided, however, such approval shall not be given where such curb cuts
and driveways shall unnecessarily increase traffic hazards.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.13)
§ 154.172 NATURAL DISASTERS.
   In the event that a fire, wind storm or other natural disaster creates
physical damage to a structure or lot where the effect of this damage threatens
the health, safety or welfare of the public, the property shall be cleaned up
in accordance with
Ch. 91 (General Nuisances) and §§
150.20 to 150.22 (Dilapidated Buildings) of this code.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.14)
§ 154.173 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   For the village’s current sign regulations, see
Ch. 152 of this code.
§ 154.174 PRIVATE ROADS.
   All new streets shall be constructed to village engineering standards and
dedicated to the village. Private roads serving more than one lot shall not be
allowed.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2009, § 5.18)
§ 154.175 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   Small solar energy systems are permitted accessory structures in any zoning
district, subject to the requirements of the zoning district in which they are
located and the following standards.
   (A)   Any small solar energy system mounted on the ground shall be located
only in the rear or side yard and must comply with all requirements applicable
to an accessory building within the zoning district in which the small solar
energy system is located (see §§
154.056(G) and
154.059(G) as appropriate).
      (1)   The height of any small solar energy system mounted on the ground
shall not exceed eight feet when orientated at a maximum tilt as measured from
the existing grade.
      (2)   Any small solar energy system mounted on the ground shall be
sufficiently screened from the view of adjacent properties or roadways through
the use of fencing, greenbelts and landscaping sufficient to provide an all-
season complete visual barrier.
   (B)   Any small solar energy system erected on a building shall not extend
beyond the peak of the roof. For systems erected on a flat roof, the highest
point of the system shall be permitted to extend up to six feet above the roof
to which it is attached; however, it shall be so located or architecturally
concealed by a parapet wall or screen so that the system is not visible from
abutting road rights-of-way or private road easements.
   (C)   Any small solar energy system mounted on the roof of a residential
property must be installed to meet the access and ventilation requirements of
the 2015 Michigan Residential Code.
   (D)   No small solar energy system shall be installed in such a way as to
pose an unreasonable safety hazard, as defined in this chapter.
   (E)   All small solar energy systems must conform to all applicable federal,
state and county requirements, in addition to other applicable village
ordinances, as well as any applicable industry standards.
   (F)   All solar energy systems must be installed in a manner ensuring that
concentrated solar glare shall not be directed onto nearby properties or
roadways.
   (G)   All power transmission lines from a ground mounted small solar energy
system to any building or other structure shall be located underground.
   (H)   Any small solar energy system and the surrounding premises must be
kept and maintained in good repair and condition at all times and must
continuously conform with all applicable building and electrical codes. This
shall include, but is not limited to, ensuring that any fencing is maintained
to provide sufficient protection and screening, that the property is kept clear
of trash and other debris, that all aspects of the small solar energy system
are maintained according to industry standards, and that no portion of the
small solar energy system is in a blighted, unsafe, or substandard manner.
   (I)   An abandoned small solar energy system shall be removed by the
property owner within six months.
§ 154.176 EMERGENCY TEMPORARY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   When permitted. Emergency temporary dwellings may be permitted upon a
finding by the village that the principal residential structure has been
destroyed in whole or in part by fire, explosion or natural disaster and
therefore is uninhabitable and the standards set forth herein have been met.
   (B)   Permit application and review.
      (1)   An application for a permit for the emergency temporary use and
installation of a mobile home, modular, recreational vehicle or prefabricated
dwelling unit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator. The application shall
be accompanied by a plot plan showing the location of the proposed structure.
      (2)   The application shall be reviewed the Zoning Administrator.
Approval of the application may be granted upon a finding that all of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The principal residential structure has been destroyed in whole
or in part by fire, explosion or natural disaster and therefore is
uninhabitable;
         (b)   The temporary dwelling unit will be connected to public sewer
and water; and
         (c)   The temporary dwelling unit complies with all applicable zoning
district requirements including setback, area, bulk and other requirements,
except minimum house size requirements.
      (3)   The granting of a permit for an emergency temporary dwelling unit
shall be for a period of up to one year from the date of approval by the Zoning
Administrator. Any conditions of approval shall be specified in writing on the
permit.
      (4)   To guarantee compliance with the provisions of the ordinance and
removal of the emergency temporary dwelling upon expiration of the permit, the
Village Council shall require a cash bond of $2,000 to be posted prior to the
issuance of a permit.
SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 154.185 PURPOSE OF SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   It is recognized by this chapter that there is a value to the public in
establishing safe and convenient traffic movement within a site and in relation
to access streets; that there is value in encouraging a harmonious relationship
of buildings and uses both within a site and in relation to adjacent uses;
further, that there are benefits to the public in conserving natural resources.
Toward this end, this chapter requires site plan review by the Planning
Commission for all buildings and structures as noted in §
154.186 of this code.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 5.2)
§ 154.186 BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES REQUIRING SITE PLAN.
   (A)   The Zoning/Building Inspector shall not issue a building or zoning
compliance permit for the use, occupation or construction of any building of
the below-listed uses until a detailed site plan has been reviewed and
recommended for approval by the Planning Commission and such approval is in
effect:
      (1)   Residential duplexes;
      (2)   Mixed residential/offices;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings and economy efficient dwelling clusters;
      (4)   All commercial construction and uses;
      (5)   All industrial construction and uses;
      (6)   All public and institutional projects, such as museums, schools,
libraries, churches, cemeteries and the like;
      (7)   All special land uses in all districts; and
      (8)   All condominium, condominium conversions and site condominium
projects.
      (9)   All accessory dwelling units.
   (B)   Site plan review by the Planning Commission is required whenever any
one of the following changes are made to a developed site:
      (1)   A separate principal building or structure is added to a developed
site;
      (2)   A site is razed and a new principal building or structure is
erected; or
      (3)   Additional off-street parking is needed in addition to that already
provided.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2000, § 5.2.1; Ord. passed 12-15-2015; Ord. passed 12-19-
2023; Ord. passed 12-19-2023)
§ 154.187 APPLICATION AND FEE FOR SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   Any person may file a request for a site plan review by the Planning
Commission by filing with the Village Clerk the completed application upon the
forms furnished by the Clerk and payment of a fee, established by resolution of
the Village Council. As an integral part of said application, the applicant
shall file at least four copies of a site plan.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.2.2)
§ 154.188 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW OF SITE PLAN.
   Upon receipt of a complete site plan from the Clerk, the Planning Commission
shall undertake a study of the same and shall, within 45 days, arrive at a
decision concerning such site plan. If either major deficiencies are found
during this review or an incomplete site plan has been submitted, or changes or
modifications in the proposed site plan are needed to achieve conformity to the
standards in this chapter, the applicant will be notified of these in writing.
Upon receipt of a revised plan from the applicant, the applicant will be placed
on the next available agenda (or that of a special meeting if the applicant
makes such a request). The Planning Commission may extend this time for periods
not to exceed 31 days each if such extensions are necessary for adequate
review.
(Ord. passed  12-30-2000 , § 5.2.3)
§ 154.189 REQUIRED DATA FOR DETAILED SITE PLAN.
   Every site plan submitted to the Planning Commission shall, depending on the
nature of the proposed project, be in accordance with the requirements stated
in either division (A) or divisions (B) and (C) below. Any submitted site plan
lacking required details is considered “incomplete” and will be returned to the
applicant for correction before final approval can be considered.
   (A)   Every site plan submitted, except site plans for uses as prescribed in
division (B) below, shall be drawn to a readable scale and include the
following details:
      (1)   The name and address of the property owner, name and address of the
applicant (if different), scale used, a north arrow, proposed use of the
property, the date that the plan was prepared and the name and address of the
preparer, if different than the owner or applicant;
      (2)   The location and all boundaries of the property and the dimensions
and the location and use of all existing structures;
      (3)   The location, size and a brief description of any proposed
construction of new structures or additions to existing structures;
      (4)   The location of all existing and proposed streets, parking lots,
driveways, signage and other improvements to be constructed or used in the
proposed project;
      (5)   The current zoning classification of the subject property and that
of all adjacent properties;
      (6)   A summary table for the project indicating how the following
information has been accounted for in the project design:
         (a)   Dimensional requirements of the district in which the property
is located; see §
154.097 of this code (R-1, R-2, RM-1 and OS-1 Districts) or §
154.058 of this code (LS, CM, MA, WS, GC, USG, CBD and LI Districts);
         (b)   For all projects in form-based districts (LS, CM, MA, WS, GC,
USG, CBD and LI Districts), the division of §
154.059 of this code (building design requirements) appropriate to the building
type being proposed has been accommodated;
         (c)   For projects in form-based districts, §§
154.060 (nonresidential site design requirements) and
154.061 (streetscape requirements) of this code have been accommodated as
appropriate to the project; and
         (d)   The divisions of §§
154.075 to
154.083 (use standards for all zoning districts) appropriate to the project
have been accommodated.
      (7)   A listing of current utilities and any proposed/required updates;
      (8)   Any proposed changes to topography and other natural features; and
      (9)   Any other information which would be helpful to the Planning
Commission during the review of the site plan.
   (B)   Site plans submitted for the following uses shall be subject to the
requirements of division (C) below:
       (1)   New construction of a multiple-family building containing four or
more dwelling units;
      (2)   Any project involving more than one multiple-family building on a
lot, parcel or series of lots under one ownership;
      (3)   An office in the following districts: R-1, R-2, LS, CM, MA and WS;
      (4)   Condominium, condominium conversions and site condominium projects;
      (5)   Private roads;
      (6)   Mobile home parks and economy efficient dwelling clusters;
      (7)   All new commercial and industrial construction; and
      (8)   The following conditional uses:
         (a)   Mobile home subdivisions;
         (b)   Automobile repair garages;
         (c)   Hotels and motels;
         (d)   Drive-in or drive-through businesses, including drive-in
theaters;
         (e)   Automobile wrecking and salvage yards; and
         (f)   Bulk storage of explosives or flammable liquids.
   (C)   Site plans submitted for uses prescribed in division (B) above shall
be submitted in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   The site plan shall be of a scale not to be greater than one inch
equals 20 feet nor less than one inch equals 200 feet and of such accuracy that
the Planning Commission can readily interpret the site plan, and shall include
more than one drawing where required for clarity;
      (2)   The property shall be identified by lot lines and location,
including dimensions, angles and size, and correlated with the legal
description of said property. The current zoning classification of the subject
property and that of all adjacent properties will also be shown. Such plan
shall further include the name and address of the property owner, developer and
designer and the date that the plan was prepared;
      (3)   The site plan shall show the scale, north point and boundary
dimensions, topography (at least two-foot contour intervals) and natural
features, such as woodlots, streams, rivers, lakes, drains and similar
features;
      (4)   The site plan shall show existing human-made features, such as
buildings, structures, high-tension towers, pipelines and existing utilities,
such as water, sewer and electric lines, excavations, bridges, culverts, drains
and easements, and shall identify adjacent properties and their existing uses;
      (5)   The site plan shall show the location, proposed finished floor and
grade line elevations, size of proposed principal and accessory buildings,
their relation one to another and to any existing structures on the site, the
height of all buildings and square footage of floor space. Site plans for
residential development shall include a density schedule showing the number of
dwelling units per net acre, including a dwelling schedule showing the unit
type and number of each unit type;
      (6)   The site plan shall show the proposed streets, driveways, sidewalks
and other vehicular pedestrian circulation features within and adjacent to the
site; also, the location, size and number of parking spaces in the off-street
parking area, including handicapper spaces as required by the state’s Barrier
Free Code, being Mich. Admin. Code, being R 408.30427, and the identification
of service lanes and service parking. Any proposed exterior lighting and
signage shall also be indicated;
      (7)   The site plan shall show the proposed location, use and size of
open spaces and the location of any landscaping, fences or walls on the site.
Any proposed alterations to the topography and other natural features shall be
indicated. The site plan shall further show any proposed location of
connections to existing utilities and proposed extensions thereof;
      (8)   Any site plan application for commercial or industrial construction
which includes exterior lighting shall include a photometric plan overlaid on
the site plan illustrating the planned layout and foot-candles of site
lighting. The following are required for review:
         (a)   Lighting plan showing light pole and fixture locations and type
designations;
         (b)   Photometric plan showing horizontal luminance levels in a point-
by-point format with contour lines. Canopy lighting will also be included in
luminance levels; and
         (c)   Lighting manufacturer’s equipment specifications and data
sheets.
      (9)   A vicinity map shall be submitted showing the location of the site
in relation to the surrounding street system;
      (10)   A summary table for the project indicating how the following
information has been accounted for in the project design:
         (a)   Dimensional requirements of the district in which the property
is located; see §
154.097 (R-1, R-2, RM-1 and OS-1 Districts) or §
154.058 (LS, CM, MA, WS, GC, USG, CBD and LI Districts);
         (b)   For all projects in form-based districts (LS, CM, MA, WS, GC,
USG, CBD and LI Districts), the division of §
154.059 (building design requirements) appropriate to the building type being
proposed has been accommodated;
         (c)   For projects in form-based districts, §§
154.060 (nonresidential site design requirements) and
154.061 (streetscape requirements) have been accommodated as appropriate to the
project; and
         (d)   The divisions of §§
154.075 to
154.083 (use standards for all zoning districts) appropriate to the project
have been accommodated.
      (11)   The site plan will include a schedule of any project phasing. When
a project is proposed for construction in phases, the planning and design shall
be such that, upon completion, each phase shall be capable of standing on its
own in terms of the presence of services, facilities and open space and shall
contain the necessary components to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the project users and/or residents; and
      (12)   For any projects involving construction of multiple principal
buildings and/or significant site improvements (roads, sidewalks, parking
areas, grading, underground utilities, exterior lighting), the site plan will
include a projected schedule for the installation of these site improvements
that will be reviewed by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. passed 9-27-1999, § 5.2.4; Ord. passed 5-20-2009; Ord. passed 9-15-2015;
Ord. passed 12-19-2023)
§ 154.190 STANDARD FOR SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   In reviewing the site plan, the Planning Commission shall ascertain
whether the proposed site plan is consistent with all regulations of this
chapter. Further, in consideration of each site plan, the Planning Commission
shall find that provisions of this chapter, as well as the provisions of the
zoning district in which said buildings, structures and uses, as indicated in
the proposed site plan, have been satisfactorily demonstrated and met by the
applicant according to the standards set forth in §
154.210 of this code.
   (B)   The Planning Commission reserves the right to request additional
information it deems necessary to complete the review of any submitted site
plan. Any costs incurred for additional reviews are the responsibility of the
applicant.
(Ord. passed  9-27-1999 , § 5.2.5)
§ 154.191 APPROVAL OF SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Unless revisions have been requested, the Planning Commission shall
approve, conditionally approve or deny a site plan within 45 days of receipt.
The Clerk shall notify the applicant in writing of its action within ten days
of the decision, including any changes necessary to meet the standards outlined
in §
154.190 of this code and any performance guarantee required under §
154.194 of this code. A zoning compliance permit and a building permit shall
not be issued until the site plan has been approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Upon the approval of a site plan, the applicant shall file with the
Clerk four copies thereof, amended as necessary. The Clerk shall, within ten
days, transmit to the Zoning Inspector one copy with the Clerk’s certificate
affixed thereto, certifying that said approved site plan conforms to the
provisions of this chapter and that any performance guarantee has been
received.
   (C)   The applicant may appeal the decision of the Planning Commission or
any of the conditions placed on the proposed development by notifying the
Zoning Board of Appeals in writing. Such appeal shall be made within 30 days of
the Planning Commission’s decision and shall specify what conditions are being
appealed.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.2.6)
§ 154.192 EXPIRATION OF SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   A site plan shall expire and be of no effect 365 days after the
approval thereof unless actual construction/development, either through
issuance of a building permit or construction of site improvements in
accordance with a submitted and approved schedule (§
154.189(C)(11) of this code), has been commenced in accordance with the
approved site plan. If construction and development is commenced within that
period, the approval will be valid for five years from the date of approval.
   (B)   If, following the start of construction, work ceases for a period of
180 days or more, site plan approval shall expire.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall be permitted to extend the period of
effectiveness of a site plan approval once, and not to exceed 180 days, upon
good cause shown if such request is made prior to the expiration of the
original site plan approval. Such extension may be granted by the Planning
Commission after determination that there have been no Zoning Ordinance changes
effective since the site plan approval which would apply to the development. In
the event of such ordinance changes, an extension may be granted by the
Planning Commission only upon agreement by the applicant to comply with all
such ordinance changes for any portions of the project on which construction
has not been started and submission of a site plan which has been modified
accordingly.
(Ord. passed 3-1-2004, § 5.2.7)
§ 154.193 FLEXIBLE LANDSCAPING.
   If, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, the characteristics of the
site achieve the spirit and intent of this chapter, or the strict enforcement
of landscaping standards would serve no purpose, the Planning Commission may
recommend the rearrangement, reduction or waiver of the requirements without
the need for a variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 2-15-1996, § 5.2.8)
§ 154.194 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   To assure the orderly completion of a land development project, at the
recommendation of the Village Planning Commission, the builder or developer
shall be required to post a guarantee in the form of a performance bond or cash
deposit.
   (B)   The guarantee shall be provided after a final site plan is approved by
the Planning Commission but prior to issuance of any building or utility
permits for any building that is covered by the site plan. The guarantee shall
cover site improvements shown on the approved site plan that will not be
completed prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. SITE
IMPROVEMENTS shall include, but are not limited to, sidewalks, grading,
required landscaping, required visual screens or fencing, storm drainage
facilities, exterior lighting and utilities.
   (C)   The applicant shall provide a cost estimate of the improvements to be
covered by the guarantee, and such estimate shall be verified as to amount by
the Village Engineer/Landscape Architect at the applicant’s expense.
   (D)   If the applicant shall fail to provide any site improvement according
to the approved plans within the time specified in the guarantee, the village
shall be entitled to enter upon the site and complete the improvements. The
village may defray the cost thereof by the use of the deposited security or may
require performance by the bonding company.
   (E)   If a cash deposit is used, the applicant will provide a projected work
schedule and completion dates. The applicant and the Planning Commission shall
decide at the time of deposit on the means of rebating portions of the deposit
in proportion to the amount of work to be completed. The balance of the deposit
will be rebated upon completion of the final inspection.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator shall refuse to sign a certificate of
occupancy until compliance with the approved final site plan is achieved or
until adequate security, as defined in this section, is provided.
   (G)   When all of the required improvements have been completed, the Zoning
Administrator shall inspect the property and submit a written report to the
Planning Commission. If the improvements are deemed satisfactory, the Clerk
will notify the owner/developer in writing, attaching a copy of the Zoning
Administrator’s report and returning the performance bond or any remaining cash
deposit.
(Ord. passed 12-15-2015, § 5.2.9)
SPECIAL LAND USES
§ 154.205 PURPOSE OF SPECIAL LAND USES.
   The formulation and enactment of this chapter is based upon the division of
the village into districts, in each of which are permitted specified uses which
are mutually compatible. In addition to such permitted compatible uses,
however, there are certain other uses which may be necessary or desirable to
allow in certain locations in certain districts, but because of their actual or
potential impact on neighboring uses or public facilities, need to be carefully
regulated with respect to their location for the protection of the village.
Such uses, on account of their peculiar locational needs or the nature of the
services offered, may have to be established in a district in which they cannot
be reasonably allowed as a permitted use.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.3)
§ 154.206 AUTHORITY TO GRANT PERMITS.
   The Planning Commission, as hereinafter provided, shall have the authority
to grant special land use permits, subject to such conditions of design,
operation and safeguards as the village may determine, for all special land
uses specified in the various district provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.3.1)
§ 154.207 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   Application for any special land use permit permissible under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be made to the Planning Commission through the Village
Clerk by filing an official special land use permit application form;
submitting required data, exhibits and information; and depositing the required
fee as established by resolution of the Village Council, except that no fee
shall be required of any governmental body or agency. No part of such fee shall
be returnable to the applicant.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.3.2)
§ 154.208 DATA, EXHIBITS AND INFORMATION REQUIRED IN APPLICATION.
   An application for a special land use permit shall contain the applicant’s
name and address in full, a statement that the applicant is the owner involved,
or is acting on the owner’s behalf, and the address of the property involved;
an accurate survey drawing and a site plan in accordance with §
154.185 of this code; and a statement of supporting data, exhibits, information
and evidence regarding the required findings set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.3.3)
§ 154.209 PUBLIC NOTIFICATIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing upon an application for
a special land use permit, notice of which shall be given in accordance with §
154.296 of this code.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.3.4)
§ 154.210 REQUIRED STANDARDS AND FINDINGS FOR MAKING DETERMINATIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall review the particular circumstances and facts
of each proposed use in terms of the following standards and required findings
and shall find and record adequate data, information and evidence showing that
such a use on the proposed site, lot or parcel meets the following
requirements:
   (A)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives,
intent and purposes of this chapter;
   (B)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, maintained and managed so as
to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity;
   (C)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services,
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures and
refuse disposal, or that the persons or agencies responsible for the
establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any such
service;
   (D)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses; and
   (E)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.3.5)
§ 154.211 DETERMINATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   After holding a public hearing and reviewing the requirements of §§
154.207 to
154.210 of this code, the Planning Commission shall, within 30 days, arrive at
a decision to recommend or deny the proposed use.
   (B)   If the facts in the case do not establish beyond a reasonable doubt
that the findings and standards set forth in this subchapter will apply to the
proposed use, the Planning Commission shall not grant a special land use
permit. This decision will be reported to the applicant in writing.
   (C)   If determining that a special land use permit should be granted, the
Planning Commission shall impose such conditions of use as provided in §§
154.075 through
154.083 to protect the best interest of the village and the surrounding
property and to achieve the objectives of this chapter.
   (D)   When a special land use permit shall be issued to the applicant, the
Planning Commission shall specify the grounds for its decision, and any
conditions imposed, in a statement of conclusions. The Planning Commission
shall forward a copy of the permit to the applicant, Clerk, Zoning Inspector
and Planning Commission.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a zoning compliance permit
until he or she has received a copy of the special land use permit approved by
the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.3.7)
§ 154.212 VOIDING OF SPECIAL LAND USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Any special land use permit granted under this subchapter shall become
null and void, and fees forfeited, unless construction and/or use is commenced
within 210 days and completed within 575 days of the date of issuance.
   (B)   A violation of a requirement, condition or safeguard shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and grounds for the Planning Commission
to contact the Zoning Administrator to terminate and cancel such special land
use permit.
(Ord. passed  12-15-2015 , § 5.3.8) Penalty, see §
154.999
OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.225 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE REQUIRED.
   In all districts, there shall be provided, at the time any building,
structure or use is established, enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street
parking spaces for motor vehicles with the requirements herein specified. Such
off-street spaces shall be maintained and shall not be encroached upon by
structures or other uses so long as the principal building, structure or use
remains unless an equivalent number of such spaces are provided elsewhere in
conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.4)
§ 154.226 PLANS.
   Plans and specifications showing required off-street parking spaces,
including the means of access and interior circulation, shall be submitted to
the Zoning Inspector for review at the time of application for a zoning
compliance permit for the erection or enlargement of a building or, in the case
of existing buildings, when the use increases or changes (for example, from
residential to office).
(Ord. passed 12-30-2000, § 5.4.1)
§ 154.227 LOCATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   Required off-street parking facilities shall be located on the same lot as
the principal building or on a lot within 300 feet of the lot. In the CBD, this
distance shall be 600 feet. This distance specified shall be measured from the
nearest point of the parking facility to the nearest point of the lot occupied
by the building or use that such facility is required to serve.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.4.2)
§ 154.228 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Parking of motor vehicles in residential districts shall be limited to
passenger vehicles, and not more than one commercial vehicle of the light-
delivery type, not to exceed one ton, shall be permitted per dwelling unit. The
parking of any other type of commercial vehicle, except for those parked on
school or church property, is prohibited in a residential zone.
   (B)   The parking of licensed and operable passenger vehicles shall be
permitted in a garage, driveway, parking lot or street, but vehicles may not be
parked in lawn areas. The parking or storage of inoperable or unlicensed
vehicles or vehicle parts shall be prohibited, except within an enclosed
building.
(Ord. passed  6-18-1991 , § 5.4.3) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.229 OFF-STREET PARKING AREA DESIGN.
   (A)   Each off-street parking space for automobiles shall be a minimum of
nine feet by 20 feet in area, exclusive of access drives or aisles, and shall
be of useable shape and condition.
   (B)   There shall be provided a minimum access drive of ten feet in width,
and where a turning radius is necessary, it will be of such an arc as to
reasonably allow an unobstructed flow of vehicles.
   (C)   Parking aisles for automobiles shall be of sufficient width to allow a
minimum turning movement in and out of parking spaces. The minimum width of
such aisles shall be:
      (1)   For 90-degree or perpendicular parking, the aisle shall not be less
than 22 feet in width;
      (2)   For 60-degree parking, the aisle shall not be less than 18 feet;
      (3)   For 45-degree parking, the aisle shall not be less than 13 feet in
width; and
      (4)   For parallel parking, the aisle shall not be less than ten feet in
width.
   (D)   All off-street parking spaces shall not be closer than five feet to
any property line, except where a wall, fence or compact planting strip exists
as a parking barrier along the property line.
   (E)   All off-street parking areas shall be drained so as to prevent runoff
onto abutting properties and shall be constructed of materials which will have
a dust-free surface resistant to erosion.
   (F)   Any lighting fixtures used to illuminate any off-street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from any adjoining
residential lot or institutional premises.
   (G)   All off-street parking areas that make it necessary for vehicles to
back out directly into a public road are prohibited, provided that this
prohibition shall not apply to off-street parking areas of one- or two-family
dwellings.
   (H)   All off-street parking areas will comply with the size and number of
barrier-free parking spaces as required by the Michigan Barrier Free Code and/
or the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 5.4.4)
§ 154.230 COLLECTIVE PARKING.
   Requirements for the provision of parking facilities with respect to two or
more property uses of the same or different types may be satisfied if the
permanent allocation of the requisite number of spaces designated is not less
than the sum of individual requirements.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 5.4.5)
§ 154.231 DETERMINING REQUIREMENTS.
   For the purposes of determining off-street parking requirements, the
following units of measurement shall apply.
   (A)   Floor area. In the case where floor area is the unit for determining
the required number of off- street parking spaces, said unit shall mean the
gross floor area as defined in §
154.005 of this code.
   (B)   Places of assembly. In stadiums, sports arenas, churches and other
places of assembly in which those in attendance occupy benches, pews or other
similar seating facilities, each 18 inches of such seating facilities shall be
counted as one seat. In cases where a place of assembly has both fixed seats
and open assembly area, requirements shall be computed separately for each type
and added together.
   (C)   Fractions. When units of measurement determining the number of
required parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction up to and including one-half shall be disregarded and fractions over
one-half shall require one parking space.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 5.4.6)
§ 154.232 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The minimum required off-street parking spaces shall be set forth in
the following schedule of off-street parking spaces. Where a use is not
specifically mentioned, the parking requirements of a similar or related use
shall apply.
   (B)   A property owner may provide electric vehicle (EV) charging station
parking spaces within the parking lot. Such spaces, not exceeding 5% of the
total number of required spaces, may be counted toward the minimum number of
parking spaces required by § 154.232.
Use Number of Parking Spaces
Use                                                              Number of
                                                                 Parking Spaces
Dwellings
Economy efficient dwelling, each unit                            1
Multiple-family, each dwelling unit                              1.5
One- and two-family, each dwelling unit                          2
General Business and Service Establishments
For each 250 sq. ft. of sales space (loading and unloading not   1
included in parking space)
Golf Courses
For each hole; in addition, accessory uses customarily           1
associated with golf courses shall be calculated separately
Hospitals, Institutions and Clinics
Homes for the aged and children’s homes, for each 3 persons in 1
residence
Hospitals, for each patient bed                                  1
Medical and dental clinics or offices, for each 200 sq. ft. of   1
gross floor area
Sanitariums and convalescent homes, for each 2 beds              1
Hotels, Motels, Bed and Breakfasts and Tourist Homes
Per sleeping unit bedroom, plus 1 space for each employee at the 1
maximum shift
Manufacturing, Processing and/or Fabrication, Warehouse and Storage Facilities
and Experimental Laboratories
For each 2 employees on maximum shift                            1
Offices, All Types Except Doctor and Dentist
For each 250 sq. ft. of gross floor area                         1
Places of Public Assembly
Auditoriums, other than school, each 4 seats                     1
Bowling alleys, each alley                                       8
Business and technical schools, each 3 students enrolled (day or 1
night classes, whichever is greater)
Churches, for each 4 seats                                       1
Civic or social clubs, for each 150 sq. ft. of floor area used   1
for assembly room
Colleges and universities, for each 3 students enrolled          1
Community centers, for each 100 sq. ft. of floor area used for   1
assembly
Dance halls, studios and skating rinks, each 100 sq. ft. of      1
floor area used for assembly by public
Junior high and elementary schools, each 9 auditorium seats      1
Libraries, museums and art galleries, each 5 seats               1
Mortuary or funeral homes, each 50 sq. ft. of floor area used    1
for assembly room (services)
Senior high schools, each 4 students                             1
Stadiums or sports arenas, each 4 seats                          1
Theaters, each 4 seats                                           1
Private Clubs, Lodges or Halls
For each 150 sq. ft. of floor area used for assembly             1
Restaurants, Bars, Grills, Taverns, Dining Rooms of Hotels or Motels, Dairy
Bars and Other Eating Establishments
For each 125 sq. ft. of floor area or for every 2 seats,         1
whichever is greater
 
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 5.4.7; Ord. passed 12-19-2023)
§ 154.233 EXCEPTION.
   The parking requirements for all uses proposed on a lot shall be cumulative
unless the Planning Commission shall find that the parking requirements of a
particular land use occur at different hours from those of other contiguous
land uses such that particular land use parking areas can be advantageously
used during nonconflicting hours by the other contiguous land use, in which
event, the required parking spaces for such particular land use may be reduced
by the Planning Commission to a minimum of the greatest number of spaces
required for any of such contiguous land uses.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 5.4.8)
§ 154.234 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS IN CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   In recognition of the unique characteristics of the downtown area, the
following regulations apply to all uses listed as conditional uses under §§
154.078,
154.080 and
154.081. Unless specifically superseded by regulations found within this
section, the regulations found within §
154.225 of this code (off-street parking requirements) shall apply.
   (A)   Parking lot location. Parking may be provided on-site. However, if
insufficient space is available on-site, parking may be provided off-site,
provided that the parking lot intended to serve a structure or use is located
not farther than 600 feet from the structure or use intended to be served by
such parking lot. This distance shall be measured from the nearest point of the
parking facility to the nearest point of the lot occupied by the building or
use that such facility is required to serve.
      (1)   Dedication of off-site parking lots. In the event that a private
off-site parking area is to be used in order to serve a given use or structure,
it shall be so dedicated to such use or structure through a written instrument,
such as a covenant or deed or similar written agreement.
   (B)   Parking space requirements for CBD uses or structures. After
performing the calculation to determine the required number of parking spaces
from §
154.232 of this code (schedule of off-street parking), one required parking
space shall be deducted from the required number of parking spaces for each 15
feet of frontage that a lot or tract has on a street with municipal on-street
parking provided.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 5.4.9)
OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.245 OFF-STREET LOADING, UNLOADING SPACE REQUIRED.
   In connection with every commercial and industrial building, structure or
use hereafter erected, there shall be provided on the same lot with such
buildings off-street loading and unloading space.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 5.5)
§ 154.246 PLANS.
   Plans and specifications showing required loading and unloading spaces,
including the means of ingress and egress and interior circulation, shall be
submitted to the Zoning Inspector for review at the time of application for a
zoning compliance permit.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991 , § 5.5.1)
§ 154.247 OFF-STREET LOADING AREA DESIGN.
   (A)   Each off-street loading and unloading space shall not be less than ten
feet in width and 55 feet in length and not less than 15 feet in height
clearance.
   (B)   Any loading-unloading space shall not be closer than 50 feet to any
other lot located in any residential district unless wholly within a completely
enclosed building or unless enclosed on all sides by a wall, fence or compact
planting not less than six feet in height.
   (C)   All off-street loading and unloading facilities that make it necessary
to back out directly into a public road shall be prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991 , § 5.5.2)
§ 154.248 OFF-STREET LOADING AREA SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the case of mixed uses on one lot or parcel, the total requirements
for off-street loading- unloading facilities shall be the sum of the various
uses computed separately.
   (B)   All retail sales facilities having over 5,000 square feet of gross
floor area shall be provided with at least one off-street loading-unloading
space, and for every additional 20,000 square feet of gross floor space, or
fraction thereof, one additional loading-unloading space.
   (C)   All industrial and wholesale commercial land uses shall provide one
loading space for each 10,000 square feet of floor space, with a minimum of not
less than two loading spaces.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991 , § 5.5.3)
UTILITIES
§ 154.260 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Outdoor lighting. All outdoor lighting shall be hooded or shielded to
focus both the light and glare from such lights both onto the property and away
from all adjoining property.
   (B)   Condominiums, PUD projects, subdivisions and the like. Within
condominiums, site condominiums, PUD projects and platted subdivisions, a
consistent type of pedestrian-scale lighting shall be provided along with all
sidewalks, within any off-street parking lots and along road frontages.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2000, § 5.16.1)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.261 UNDERGROUND WIRING.
   Within all condominium and site condominium projects, planned unit
developments (PUD), planned industrial developments (PID) and platted
subdivisions:
   (A)   The owner/developer shall make arrangements for all distribution lines
for electric, telephone and cable TV services to be placed underground entirely
through the project area. Such conduits or cables shall be placed within
dedicated rights-of-way or within private easements provided to such service
companies by the developer. If, in the opinion of the Planning Commission,
conditions exist which justify other means of distribution, these requirements
may be altered to accommodate such conditions;
   (B)   Conduits or cables placed in the public rights-of-way shall be planned
so as not to conflict with other underground facilities;
   (C)   All telephone and electrical facilities shall be constructed in
accordance with construction standards approved by the state’s Public Service
Commission; and
   (D)   All drainage and underground utility installations which traverse
privately owned property shall be protected by easements granted by the owner/
developer.
(Ord. passed 12-30-2000, § 5.16.2)
§ 154.262 SIDEWALKS/PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Site design of all condominium and site condominium projects, planned
unit developments (PUD), planned industrial developments (PID) and platted
subdivisions shall demonstrate a special sensitivity to pedestrian circulation
and safety.
   (B)   Public sidewalks at least five-feet wide shall be provided along both
sides of a public street. The surface shall be concrete. All public sidewalks
shall be constructed in accordance with the line, grade and slope
specifications given in §§
92.40 to
92.48 of this code.
   (C)   All commercial, industrial and residential developments shall provide:
      (1)   Connections between all public sidewalks and building entrances;
      (2)   Connections between public sidewalks adjacent to the development
and those sidewalks within the development;
      (3)   Where not currently present, public sidewalks along the right(s)-
of-way of the development shall be constructed in accordance with the line,
grade and slope specifications given in §§
92.40 to
92.48 of this code; and
      (4)   Where present, public sidewalks not meeting the current
specifications given in §§
92.40 to
92.48 of this code shall be upgraded as part of the project.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2018, § 5.16.3)
SITE CONDOMINIUMS
§ 154.275 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of
1978, being MCL 559.101 et seq., as amended, all condominium plats must be
approved by the Village Planning Commission. A site plan shall be required for
all site condominium projects. Each condominium unit shall be located within a
zoning district that permits the proposed use.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1994, § 5.17.1)
§ 154.276 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA LINE.
      (1)   FRONT YARD AREA LINE. A line located at the outer edge of a limited
common area associated with a particular building envelope. The FRONT YARD AREA
LINE is the area line which runs most nearly parallel with the street or
private road which provides access to the condominium lot.
      (2)   REAR YARD AREA LINE. A line located at the outer edge of a limited
common area associated with a particular building envelope. The REAR YARD AREA
LINE is the area line lying opposite of the front yard area line.
      (3)   SIDE YARD AREA LINE. A line located at the outer edge of a limited
common area associated with a particular building envelope. The SIDE YARD AREA
LINES are those area lines which are neither front nor rear yard area lines.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE. The principal structure intended for a building site,
together with any attached accessory structures; for example, in a residential
development, the BUILDING ENVELOPE would refer to the house and any attached
garage.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being MCL 559.101 et seq., as
amended.
   CONDOMINIUM LOT. The land in a condominium unit, together with the land in
the adjacent and appurtenant limited common element, if there is such a limited
common element.
   CONDOMINIUM PLAN. The site, survey and utility plans, floor plans and
sections, as appropriate, showing the existing and proposed structures and
improvements, including the location thereof on the land. The CONDOMINIUM PLAN
shall show the size, location, area, vertical boundaries and volume of each
unit comprised of enclosed air space. A number shall be assigned to each
condominium unit. The CONDOMINIUM PLAN shall include the nature, location and
approximate size of the common elements.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of a condominium project designed and intended
for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
   CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any portion of
the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn, pursuant to express
provisions in the condominium document and in accordance with this chapter and
the Condominium Act.
   CONVERTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project containing condominium units
some or all of which were occupied before the establishment of the condominium
project.
   EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project to which additional land may
be added, pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act, being Public Act 59 of
1978, being MCL 559.101 et seq., as amended.
   LOT. The same as CONDOMINIUM LOT.
   MASTER DEED. The condominium documents recording the condominium project as
approved by the Zoning Administrator, to which is attached as exhibits and
incorporated by reference the approved bylaws for the project and the approved
condominium subdivision plan for the project.
   SETBACK. The distance between the front, rear or side yard area line and the
portion of the condominium dwelling closest to that area line.
      (1)   FRONT YARD SETBACK. The distance between the front yard area line
and the condominium dwelling.
      (2)   REAR YARD SETBACK. The distance between the rear yard area line and
the condominium dwelling.
      (3)   SIDE YARD SETBACK. The distance between the side yard area line and
the condominium dwelling.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1994, § 5.17.2)
§ 154.277 CONDOMINIUM PLAN; REQUIRED CONTENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. All condominium plans shall include the
information required by § 66 of the Condominium Act, being Public Act 59 of
1978, MCL 559.166, as amended, and the following:
      (1)   A survey plan of the condominium subdivision;
      (2)   A flood plain plan, when appropriate;
      (3)   A site plan showing the location, size, shape, area and width of
all condominium units;
      (4)   A utility plan showing all sanitary sewer, water and storm sewer
lines and easements granted to the village for installation, repair and
maintenance of all utilities;
      (5)   A street construction, paving and maintenance plan for all private
roads within the proposed condominium subdivision; and
      (6)   A storm drainage and stormwater management plan, including all
lines, swales, basins and other facilities.
   (B)   Easements for utilities. The condominium plan shall include all
necessary easements granted to the village for purposes of constructing,
operating, inspecting, maintaining, repairing, altering, replacing and/or
removing pipelines, mains, conduits and other installations of a similar
character (hereinafter collectively call “public structures”) for the purpose
of providing public utilities, including conveyance of sewage, water and
stormwater run-off across, through and under the property subject to said
easement and excavating and refilling ditches and trenches necessary for the
location of said structures.
   (C)   Private streets. If a condominium development is proposed to have
private streets, they shall be developed to the minimum design, construction,
inspection, approval and other applicable standards and requirements of the
village for a dedicated public street.
   (D)   Encroachment prohibited. Encroachment of one condominium unit upon
another, as described in § 40 of the Condominium Act, being Public Act 59 of
1978, MCL 559.140, as amended, shall be prohibited by the condominium bylaws
and recorded as part of the master deed.
   (E)   Relocation of boundaries. All individual condominium units shall
conform to the requirements of this chapter for minimum lot width and lot area,
and the building setback requirements shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator, and this requirement shall be made part of the bylaws and
recorded as part of the master deed.
   (F)   Subdivision of condominium units. All individual condominium units
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter for minimum lot width and lot
area, and the building setback requirement shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator, and these requirements shall be made part of the bylaws and
recorded as part of the master deed.
   (G)   Condominium subdivision layout, design and approval. All condominium
subdivision plans shall conform to the plan preparation requirements; review
and approval procedures; and design, layout and improvement standards of §
154.185 (site plan review and approval) of this code. A deposit in the form of
cash, certified check or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be made with
the village, if required by the Planning Commission, to guarantee the
installation and completion of any required public sanitary sewer, water supply
and drainage facilities within a length of time agreed upon from the date of
final approval of the condominium plan by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1994, § 5.17.3)
§ 154.278 CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION APPROVAL; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all condominium projects within the
village.
   (A)   Initial information. Concurrently with notice required to be given to
the village pursuant to Public Act 59 of 1978, § 71, being MCL 559.171, as
amended, a person, firm or corporation intending to develop a condominium
project shall provide the following information with respect to the project:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of:
         (a)   All persons, firms or corporations with an ownership interest in
the land on which the condominium project will be located, together with a
description of the nature of each entity’s interest (for example, fee owner,
optionee or land contract vendee);
         (b)   All engineers, attorneys, architects or registered land
surveyors associated with the project; and
         (c)   The developer or proprietor of the condominium project.
      (2)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium project
will be developed, together with the appropriate tax identification numbers;
      (3)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium project
will be developed;
      (4)   The purpose of the project (for example, residential, commercial,
industrial); and
      (5)   Approximate number of condominium units to be developed in the
subject parcel.
   (B)   Information to be kept current. The information shall be furnished to
the Zoning Administrator and shall be kept updated until such time as a
certificate of occupancy has been issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Site plans—new projects, master deed and engineering and inspection.
Prior to recording of the master deed required by Public Act 59 of 1978, § 72,
being MCL 559.108, as amended, the condominium project shall undergo site
review and approval pursuant to §
154.185 of this code. In addition, the village shall require appropriate
engineering plans and inspections prior to the issuance of any certificate of
occupancy.
   (D)   Site plans—expandable or convertible projects. Prior to expansion or
conversion of a condominium project to additional land, the new phase of the
project shall undergo site plan review and approval pursuant to §
154.185 of this code.
   (E)   Master deed, restrictive covenants and as-built survey to be
furnished.
      (1)   The condominium project developer or proprietor shall furnish the
Zoning Administrator with the following:
         (a)   One copy of the recorded master deed;
         (b)   One copy of all restrictive covenants; and
         (c)   Two copies of an “as-built survey.”
      (2)   The “as-built survey” shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator
for compliance with village ordinances. Fees for this review shall be
established by resolution of the Village Council.
   (F)   Monuments required—site condominium projects. All condominium projects
which consist, in whole or in part, of condominium units which are building
sites, mobile home sites or recreational sites shall be marked with monuments
as provided in this division (F).
      (1)   Monuments shall be located in the ground and made according to the
following requirements, but it is not intended or required that monuments be
placed within the traveled portion of a street to mark angles in the boundary
of the condominium project if the angle points can be readily reestablished by
reference to monuments along the sidelines of the streets.
      (2)   All monuments used shall be made of solid iron or steel bars at
least one-half inch in diameter and 36 inches long and completely encased in
concrete at least four inches in diameter.
      (3)   Monuments shall be located in the ground at all angles in the
boundaries of the condominium project; at the intersection lines of streets,
and at the intersection of the lines of streets with the boundaries of the
condominium project, and at the intersection of alleys with the boundaries of
the condominium project; at all points of curvature, points of tangency, points
of compound curvature, points of reverse curvature and angle points in the side
lines of streets and alleys; at all angles of an intermediate traverse line and
at the intersection of all limited common elements and common elements.
      (4)   If the required location of a monument is in an inaccessible place,
or where the locating of a monument would be clearly impracticable, it is
sufficient to place a reference monument nearby and the precise location
thereof be clearly indicated on the plans and referenced to the true point.
      (5)   If a point required to be monumented is on a bedrock outcropping, a
steel rod at least one- half inch in diameter shall be drilled and grouted into
solid rock to a depth of at least eight inches.
      (6)   All required monuments shall be placed flush with the final ground
elevation, where practicable.
      (7)   All unit corners shall be monumented in the field by iron or steel
bars or in iron pipes at least 18 inches long and one-half inch in diameter, or
other approved markers.
      (8)   The Planning Commission may waive the placing of any of the
required monuments and markers for a reasonable time, not to exceed one year,
on the condition that the proprietor deposits with the Village Clerk cash or a
certified check, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit turning to the
village, whichever the proprietor selects, in any amount not less than $50 per
monument and not less than $200 in total. Such cash, certified check or
irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be returned to the proprietor upon
receipt of a certificate by a surveyor that the monuments and markers have been
placed as required within the time specified.
   (G)   Monuments required—all condominium projects. All condominium projects
shall be marked at their boundaries with monuments meeting the requirements of
division (F) above.
   (H)   State and county approval. The developer or proprietor of the
condominium project shall establish that appropriate state and county approvals
have been received with regard to the fresh water system for the proposed
project and with regard to the waste water disposal system for the proposed
project.
   (I)   Temporary occupancy. The Zoning Administrator may allow occupancy of
the condominium project before all improvements required by this chapter are
installed, provided that a bond is submitted sufficient in amount and type to
provide for the installation of improvements before the expiration of the
temporary occupancy permit without expense to the village. Zoning compliance
permits shall be issued only in accordance with §
154.293 (zoning compliance permits) of this code.
   (J)   Single-family detached condominiums.
      (1)   Single-family detached condominiums shall be subject to all
requirements and standards of the applicable R-1, R-2 and OS-1 Zoning
Districts, including minimum floor area requirements and minimum lot size. For
the purpose of computing density, the number of units per gross acre shall not
exceed:
 
OS-1 District 1 unit per acre
R-1 District  4.4 units per acre
R-2 District  5.4 units per acre
 
      (2)   There shall be maintained a minimum distance of 70 feet from the
center of one residential dwelling unit to the center of another residential
dwelling unit. This 70-foot requirement shall be computed along the front
building line. In addition, building envelopes shall be depicted on the site
plan to assure that the minimum 25-foot front yard, 35-foot rear yard and
eight-foot side yard can be met.
      (3)   This distance shall be measured from the outside limits of a
building envelope to the outside limits of its constituent limited common area.
   (K)   Multiple-family, commercial and industrial condominiums. Two-family,
multiple-family, commercial and industrial condominium projects shall be
located only in those zoning districts allowing those uses as permitted, or
conditional uses, and shall be subject to all of the requirements and standards
of the zoning district in which they are located. Such standards shall include,
but not be limited to, minimum floor area requirements, minimum lot size,
density and the setback requirements of the provisions for the district in
which the project is located.
   (L)   Site plan. After submittal of the condominium plan and bylaws as part
of the master deed, the proprietor shall furnish to the village a copy of the
site plan on a photographic hard copy, laminated photostatic copy or mylar
sheet at least 12 by 16 inches, with an image not to exceed 10.5 by 14 inches.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1994, § 5.17.4)
ADMINISTRATION OF THE ORDINANCE
§ 154.290 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide the procedures for the
administration of this chapter, issuance of permits, inspection of properties,
collection of fees, handling of violators and enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter and amendments thereto.
(Ord. passed 6-8-1991, § 6.1)
§ 154.291 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except when herein otherwise stated, the provisions of this chapter shall be
administered by the Zoning Administrator, or by such other deputies of his or
her department as the Village Council may designate to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.2)
§ 154.292 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to grant zoning
compliance permits and certificates of occupancy and to make inspections of
buildings or premises necessary to carry out his or her duties in the
enforcement of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for the Zoning Administrator
to approve plans or issue any permits or certificates of occupancy for any
excavation or construction until he or she has inspected such plans in detail
and found them to conform with this chapter, nor shall the Zoning Administrator
vary or change the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify, in writing, the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of illegal uses of any lots or structures, alterations or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other legal action necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter or
to prevent violation of its provisions.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit to the Planning Commission and
the Village Council quarterly reports fully explaining the type and nature of
uses permitted by right, the nature and extent of violations of this chapter
and the type and nature of nonconforming uses, buildings and structures. The
Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning compliance permits
and certificates of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.3)
§ 154.293 ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance of zoning compliance permits.
      (1)   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be
located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, enlarged or
moved, nor shall any change be made in the use of any building, structure or
land, without a zoning compliance permit having been obtained from the Zoning
Administrator for such building, structure or land. A zoning compliance
application shall be filled out and submitted to the Zoning Administrator, with
copies forwarded to the Secretary of the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall require that all applications for
zoning compliance permits shall be accompanied by plans and specifications,
including a plot plan in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the following
information:
         (a)   The actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon;
         (b)   The exact size and location of existing structures on the lot,
if any; and
         (c)   The location and dimensions of the proposed structure or
alteration.
      (3)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Zoning Administrator after such copy has been approved or disapproved and
attested to same by the Zoning Administrator’s signature on such copy. The
Zoning Administrator shall retain the original copy, similarly marked, for his
or her files. Whenever the buildings, structures and uses as set forth in the
application are in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue the applicant a zoning compliance permit within ten
days of the filing thereof. Where action of the Board of Appeals or the
Planning Commission is required in any case, as set forth in this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue such permit promptly following such approvals
action.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.4.1)
   (B)   Voiding of zoning compliance permits. Any zoning compliance permit
granted under this chapter shall become null and void, and fees forfeited,
unless construction and/or use is completed within 545 days of the date of
issuance. A zoning compliance permit shall be renewable upon reapplication and
upon payment of the fee, subject, however, to the provisions of all ordinances
in effect at the time of renewal.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.4.2)
§ 154.294 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; FINAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy. No building or structure, or
part thereof, shall be occupied by or for any use for which a zoning compliance
permit is required by this chapter unless and until a certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued for such use. The holder of a zoning compliance permit
for the construction, erection or moving of any building, structure or part
thereof for the establishment of a use shall make application to the Zoning
Administrator immediately upon the completion of the work authorized by the
zoning compliance permit for a final inspection. A certificate of occupancy
shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator within five days after receipt of
such application if it is found that the building or structure, or part
thereof, is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.5.1)
   (B)   Voiding of certificate of occupancy. Any certificate of occupancy
granted under this chapter shall become null and void if such use, buildings or
structures for which said certificate was issued are found by the Zoning
Administrator to be in violation of this chapter. The Zoning Administrator,
upon finding such violation, shall immediately notify the Village Council of
said violation and void the certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.5.2)
Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.295 FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   The Village Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses, and a collection procedure, for zoning compliance permits,
certificates of occupancy, appeals and other such matters pertaining to the
chapter. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the offices of the Zoning
Administrator and the Village Clerk and may be altered or amended only by the
Village Council. No permit, certificate, conditional use on approval or
variance shall be issued unless or until such costs, charges, fees or expenses
listed in this chapter have been paid in full, nor shall any action be taken on
proceedings before the Board of Appeals unless or until preliminary charges and
fees have been paid in full.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.6)
§ 154.296 PUBLIC HEARING NOTICES.
   In instances where a public hearing is required under this chapter with the
Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals, written notice of the
public hearing shall be as follows.
   (A)   Notice content. The notice shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Describe the nature of the request;
      (2)   Indicate the property that is the subject of the request. The
notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses within the
property. Street addresses do not need to be created and listed if no such
addresses currently exist within the property. If there are no street
addresses, other means of identification may be used;
      (3)   State when and where the request will be considered; and
      (4)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (B)   Notice publication and mailing. Notice shall be published and mailed
not less than 15 days prior to the public hearing as follows.
      (1)   Notice of the request shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
      (2)   Notice shall be sent by mail or personal delivery to the owners of
property for which approval is being considered.
      (3)   Notice shall also be sent to all persons to whom real property is
assessed within 300 feet of the subject property, and to the occupants of all
structures within 300 feet of the subject property, regardless of whether the
property or structure is located in the zoning jurisdiction. Notification need
not be given to more than one occupant of a structure, except that if a
structure contains more than one dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased
by different persons, one occupant of each unit or spatial area shall be given
notice. If a single structure contains more than four dwelling units or other
distinct spatial areas owned or leased by different persons, notice may be
given to the manager or owner of the structure, who shall be requested to post
the notice at the primary entrance to the structure. If the name of the
occupant is not known, the term “occupant” may be used in making notification
under this division (B)(3).
      (4)   The notice under division (B)(3) above is considered to be given
when personally delivered or when deposited during normal business hours for
delivery with the United States Postal Service or other public or private
delivery service.
   (C)   Ordinance amendments and rezonings of more than ten properties. Public
hearings for an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance, or the zoning map, that
affects 11 or more properties shall only require notice in a newspaper, which
shall not be required to indicate the property subject to the request under
division (A)(2) above, and notice shall not be required to be mailed to
individual properties under divisions (B)(2) and (3) above.
   (D)   ZBA interpretations and appeals. Public hearings for ordinance
interpretations and appeals of administrative decisions by the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall only require notice in a newspaper, as required in division (B)
(1) above, and if the interpretation or appeal of an administrative decision
involves a specific property, notice shall also be given to the person bringing
the appeal, as required in division (B)(2) above. Variances shall require full
notification under divisions (B)(1) to (3) above.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.8)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 154.310 BOARD OF APPEALS ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Board of Appeals which, unless specifically
appointed, is the Village Council. In the event a Board of Appeals is
appointed, it shall consist of five members, with terms set by the Village
Council. The Board of Appeals shall perform its duties and exercise its powers
as provided in Public Act 110 of 2006, being MCL 125.3101 et seq., as amended,
in such a way that the objectives of this chapter shall be observed, the public
health, safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 7.1)
§ 154.311 DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide only such matters as the Board of
Appeals is specifically authorized to pass on as provided in this chapter. The
Board of Appeals shall not have the power to alter or change the zoning
district’s classification or any property, nor to make changes in the terms of
this chapter, but does have the power to authorize a variance as defined in
this chapter, to act or those matters where this chapter may require an
interpretation and to issue a temporary use permit when authorized by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 7.2)
§ 154.312 VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals may authorize, upon an appeal, a variance from
the strict applications of the provisions of this chapter where, by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape or contours of a specified tract of
land at the time of enactment of this chapter, or by reason of exceptional
conditions of such property, the strict application of the regulations enacted
would result in peculiar or exceptional practical difficulties to, or
exceptional undue hardship upon, the owner of such property. No variance shall
be granted to permit the establishment within a district of any use which is
excluded or for which a conditional use permit is required.
   (B)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the
Board of Appeals unless and until:
      (1)   A written application for a variance is submitted demonstrating the
following.
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures or buildings that are in the same district.
         (b)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same zoning district under the terms of this chapter.
         (c)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
         (d)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands, structures
or buildings in the same district.
         (e)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or
buildings in the same zoning district, and no permitted use of lands,
structures or buildings in other districts, shall be considered grounds for the
issuance of a variance.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals shall determine that the requirements of this
chapter have been met by the applicant for a variance;
      (3)   The Board of Appeals shall determine that the reasons set forth in
the application justify the granting of the variance, and the variance is the
minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of the land,
building or structure;
      (4)   The Board of Appeals shall determine that the granting of the
variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter
and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the
public welfare;
      (5)   In granting any variance, the Board of Appeals may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter;
      (6)   Each variance granted under the provisions of this chapter shall
become null and void unless:
         (a)   The construction authorized by such variance or permit has been
commenced within 180 days after the granting of such variance and pursued
diligently to completion; or
         (b)   The occupancy of land or buildings authorized by such variance
has taken place within 180 days after the granting of such variance.
      (7)   No application for a variance which has been denied wholly or in
part by the Board of Appeals shall be resubmitted for a period of 365 days from
such denial, except on grounds of new evidence or proof of changed conditions
found by the Board of Appeals to be valid.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 7.3)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.313 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by
the applicant there is an error in any order, requirement, permit, decision or
refusal made by the Planning Commission, the Zoning Administrator or any other
administrative official in carrying out or enforcing any provisions of this
chapter, including interpretations of the Zoning Map.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 7.4)
APPEALS TO THE BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 154.325 APPEALS, HOW TAKEN.
   Appeals from the ruling or interpretation concerning the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter may be made to the Board of Appeals, within such
time as shall be prescribed by the Board of Appeals by general rule, by filing
with the Village Clerk. This officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board of
Appeals all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
was taken.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991 , § 7.5.1)
§ 154.326 WHO MAY APPEAL.
   Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
an officer, department, board, agency or bureau of the township, village,
county or state.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991 , § 7.5.2)
§ 154.327 FEE FOR APPEAL.
   A fee prescribed by the Village Council shall be paid to the Board of
Appeals at the time of filing the notice of appeal, which the Board of Appeals
shall pay over, within 30 days after deciding any appeal, to the General Fund
of the village.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991 , § 7.5.3)
§ 154.328 EFFECT OF APPEAL; RESTRAINING ORDER.
   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed unless
the Village Clerk certifies to the Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal
shall have been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life
or property, in which case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the Board of Appeals or by the
Circuit Court on application of notice to the Village Clerk and due cause is
shown.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991 , § 7.5.4)
§ 154.329 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
application or appeal and give notice in accordance with §
154.296 of this code.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 7.5.5; Ord. passed 5-20-2009)
§ 154.330 REPRESENTATION OF HEARING.
   Upon the hearing, any party or parties may appear in person or by agent or
by attorney.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 7.5.6)
§ 154.331 DECISIONS OF THE BOARD OF APPEALS TO THE CIRCUIT COURT.
   The Board of Appeals shall decide upon all matters within a reasonable time
and may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from, and shall make such
order, requirement, decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be
made in the premises, and to that end, shall be in the form of a resolution
containing a full record of the findings and determination of the Board of
Appeals in each particular case. Any person having an interest affected by such
resolution shall have the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 7.5.7)
AMENDMENT PROCEDURES GENERALLY
§ 154.345 INITIATING AMENDMENTS AND FEES.
   (A)   The Village Council may from time to time, on recommendation from the
Planning Commission or on its own motion, amend, modify, supplement or revise
the district boundaries or the provisions and regulations herein established
whenever the public necessity and convenience and the general welfare require
such amendment. Said amendment may be initiated by resolution of the Village
Council, the Planning Commission or by the proposed amendment.
   (B)   Except for the Village Council or the Planning Commission, the
petitioner requesting an amendment shall at the time of the application pay the
fee established by resolution of the Village Council, no part of which shall be
returnable to the petitioner.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 8.1)
§ 154.346 AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The procedure for making amendments to this chapter shall be in
accordance with Public Act 110 of 2006, being MCL 125.3101 et seq., for
villages and cities. The Act requires that the following procedure be followed.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   One notice of the public hearing, giving the subject to be
discussed, time and place of the hearing, will be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village not less than 15 days before the hearing.
      (3)   Similar notice must be mailed to any public utilities and railroads
which have registered with the village for such notification at least 15 days
prior to the hearing.
      (4)   In the case of a property rezoning, the owner of the property in
question will receive a written notice at least 15 days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   In addition to the above procedure, the following notification will
also be performed.
      (1)   One notice of any public hearing called by the Planning Commission
will be posted at the Village Office, to be visible from the outside of the
building.
      (2)   In the case of a property rezoning, all property owners/occupants
within 300 feet of the proposed rezoning will receive a written notice at least
15 days prior to the hearing.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 8.2)
§ 154.347 CONFORMANCE TO COURT DECREE.
   Any amendment for the purpose of conforming to a provision thereof to the
decree of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be adopted by the Village
Council and the amendments published without referring the same to any other
board or agency.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 8.3)
CONDITIONAL REZONING
§ 154.360 INTENT.
   It is recognized that there are certain instances where it would be in the
best interests of the village, as well as advantageous to property owners
seeking a change in zoning classifications, if certain conditions could be
proposed by property owners as part of a request for rezoning. It is the intent
of this subchapter to provide a process consistent with the provisions of the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, § 405, being
MCL 125.3405, as amended, by which an owner seeking rezoning may voluntarily
propose conditions regarding the use and/or development of land as part of the
rezoning request.
§ 154.361 APPLICATION AND OFFER OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   An owner of land may voluntarily offer, in writing, conditions
relating to the use and/or development of land for which a rezoning is
requested. This offer may be made either at the time the application for
rezoning is filed or may be made at a later time during the rezoning process.
   (B)   The required application and process for considering a rezoning
request with conditions shall be the same as that for considering a rezoning
request made without any offer of conditions, except as modified by the
requirements of this section.
   (C)   The owner’s offer of conditions may not purport to authorize uses or
developments not permitted in the requested new zoning district.
   (D)   The owner’s offer of conditions shall bear a reasonable and rational
relationship to the property for which rezoning is requested.
   (E)   Any development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that would
require a special land use permit under the terms of this chapter may only be
commenced if a special land use permit for such use or development is
ultimately granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Any development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that would
require a variance under the terms of this chapter may only be commenced if a
variance for such development is ultimately granted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions that
requires a site plan approval under the terms of this chapter may only be
commenced if site plan approval for such use or development is ultimately
granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   The offer of conditions may be amended during the process of rezoning
consideration, provided that any amended or additional conditions are included
voluntarily by the owner. An owner may withdraw all or part of its offer of
conditions anytime prior to final rezoning action of the Village Council,
provided that if such withdrawal occurs subsequent to the Planning Commission’s
public hearing on the original rezoning request, then the rezoning application
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for a new public hearing with
appropriate notice and a new recommendation.
§ 154.362 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   The Planning Commission, after public hearing and consideration of the
factors for rezoning set forth in §§
154.210 and
154.296 of this code, may recommend approval, approval with recommended changes
or denial of the rezoning; provided, however, that any recommended changes to
the offer of conditions are acceptable to, and thereafter offered by, the
owner.
§ 154.363 VILLAGE COUNCIL REVIEW.
   After receipt of the Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Village
Council shall deliberate upon the requested rezoning and may approve or deny
the conditional rezoning request. The Village Council’s deliberations shall
include, but not be limited to, a consideration of the factors for rezoning set
forth in §
154.210 of this code. Should the Village Council consider amendments to the
proposed conditional rezoning advisable, and if such contemplated amendments to
the offer of conditions are acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner,
then the Village Council shall, in accordance with the Michigan Zoning Enabling
Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, § 308, being MCL 125.3308, as amended, refer such
amendments to the Planning Commission for a report thereon within a time
specified by the Village Council and proceed thereafter in accordance with said
statute to deny or approve the conditional rezoning, with or without
amendments.
§ 154.364 APPROVAL.
   (A)   If the Village Council finds the rezoning request and offer of
conditions acceptable, the offered conditions shall be incorporated into a
formal written statement of conditions acceptable to the owner and conforming
in form to the provisions of this section. The statement of conditions shall be
incorporated by attachment, or otherwise, as an inseparable part of the
ordinance adopted by the Village Council to accomplish the requested rezoning.
   (B)   The statement of conditions shall:
      (1)   Be in a form recordable with the County Register of Deeds or, in
the alternative, be accompanied by a recordable affidavit or memorandum
prepared and signed by the owner giving notice of the statement of conditions
in a manner acceptable to the Village Council;
      (2)   Contain a legal description of the land to which it pertains;
      (3)   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of conditions
runs with the land and is binding upon successor owners of the land;
      (4)   Incorporate by attachment or reference any diagram, plans or other
documents submitted or approved by the owner that are necessary to illustrate
the implementation of the statement of conditions. If any such documents are
incorporated by reference, the reference shall specify where the document may
be examined;
      (5)   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of conditions,
or an affidavit or memorandum giving notice thereof, may be recorded by the
village with the Country Register of Deeds; and
      (6)   Contain the notarized signatures of all the owners of the subject
land preceded by a statement attesting to the fact that they voluntarily offer
and consent to the provisions contained within the statement of conditions.
   (C)   Upon rezoning taking effect, the Zoning Map shall be amended to
reflect the new zoning classification along with a designation that the land
was rezoned with a statement of conditions. The Village Clerk shall maintain a
listing of all lands rezoned with a statement of conditions.
   (D)   The approved statement of conditions, or an affidavit or memorandum
giving notice thereof, shall be filed by the village with the County Register
of Deeds. The Village Council shall have authority to waive this requirement if
it determines that, given the nature of the conditions and/or the time frame
within which the conditions are to be satisfied, the recording of such a
document would be of no material benefit to the village or to any subsequent
owner of the land.
§ 154.365 COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any person who establishes a development or commences a use upon land
that has been rezoned with conditions shall continuously operate and maintain
the development or use in compliance with all of the conditions set forth in
the statement of conditions. Any failure to comply with a condition contained
within the statement of conditions shall constitute a violation of this chapter
and be actionable accordingly. Additionally, any such violation shall be deemed
a nuisance per se and subject to judicial abatement as provided by law.
   (B)   No permit or approval shall be granted under this chapter for any use
or development that is contrary to an applicable statement of conditions.
Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.366 PERFORMANCE BOND REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Before a building permit is issued, the applicant shall furnish a
performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit or a cash bond deposited with
the village. The amount and terms of the performance bond, irrevocable letter
of credit or cash bond shall be established and approved by the Village Council
or its designee. The purpose of the requirements set forth in this section is
to permit the property to be restored to its original state in the event of a
default on the part of the applicant in completing the project according to the
terms of the site plan, the statement of conditions and this chapter. The
requirements set forth in this section shall become effective upon the issuance
of a building permit with respect to each and every one of the development
phases which are part of an approved site plan, or an amended site plan. Such
requirements will not extend beyond a period of five years from the date on
which a site plan, or amended site plan, is approved by the Village Council.
   (B)   The requirements set forth herein shall cease and terminate upon the
first of the following to occur:
      (1)   The expiration of the five-year period mentioned above; or
      (2)   Upon a final occupancy permit having been signed and issued by all
departments required to sign such permit with respect to each and every phase
of the development.
§ 154.367 TIME PERIOD FOR ESTABLISHING DEVELOPMENT USE.
   (A)   Unless another time period is specified in the ordinance rezoning the
subject land, the approved development and/or use of the land, pursuant to
building and other required permits, must be commenced upon the land within 18
months after the rezoning took effect and thereafter proceed diligently to
completion.
   (B)   This time limitation may, upon written request, be extended by the
Village Council if:
      (1)   It is demonstrated to the Village Council’s reasonable satisfaction
that there is a strong likelihood that the development and/or use will commence
within the period of extension and proceed diligently thereafter to completion;
and
      (2)   The Village Council finds that there has not been a change in
circumstances that would render the current zoning with statement of conditions
incompatible with other zones and uses in the surrounding area.
Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.368 REVERSION OF ZONING.
   If the approved development and/or use of the rezoned land does not occur
within the time frame specified under §
154.367 of this code, then the land shall revert to its former zoning
classification as set forth in the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110
of 2006, § 405, being MCL 125.3405, as amended. The reversion process shall be
initiated by the Village Council requesting that the Planning Commission
proceed with consideration of rezoning of the land to its former zoning
classification. The procedure for considering and making this reversionary
rezoning shall thereafter be the same as applies to all other rezoning
requests.
§ 154.369 SUBSEQUENT REZONING OF LAND.
   When land that is rezoned with a statement of conditions is thereafter
rezoned to a different zoning classification, or to the same zoning
classification but with different or no statement of conditions, whether as a
result of a reversion of zoning pursuant to §
154.368 of this code or otherwise, the statement of conditions imposed under
the former zoning classification shall cease to be in effect. Upon the owner’s
written request, the Village Clerk shall record with the County Register of
Deeds a notice that the statement of conditions is no longer in effect.
§ 154.370 AMENDMENT OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   During the time period for commencement of an approved development or
use specified pursuant to §
154.367 of this code, or during any extension thereof granted by the Village
Council, the village shall not add to or alter the conditions in the statement
of conditions.
   (B)   The statement of conditions may be amended thereafter in the same
manner as was prescribed for the original rezoning and statement of conditions.
§ 154.371 VILLAGE RIGHT TO REZONE.
   Nothing in the statement of conditions, nor in the provisions of this
subchapter, shall be deemed to prohibit the village from rezoning all or any
portion of land that is subject to a statement of conditions to another zoning
classification. Any rezoning shall be conducted in compliance with this chapter
and the state’s Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being MCL 125.3101
et seq., as amended.
§ 154.372 FAILURE TO OFFER CONDITIONS.
   The village shall not require an owner to offer conditions as a requirement
for rezoning. The lack of an offer of conditions shall not affect an owner’s
rights under this chapter.
LEGAL STATUS
§ 154.385 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Conflicting laws of a more restrictive nature are not affected or
repealed by this chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall be considered as
minimum. Conflicting laws of a less restrictive nature, or those conflicting in
other ways than the degrees of restrictiveness, are hereby repealed.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate or annul any easement,
covenant or other private agreement, provided that where any provision of this
chapter is more restrictive or imposes a higher standard or requirement than
such easement, covenant or other private agreement, the provisions of this
chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 9.1)
§ 154.386 VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare any part of this
chapter to be invalid, such ruling shall not affect any other provisions of
this chapter not included in said ruling.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular land, parcel, lot,
district, use, building or structure, such ruling shall not affect the
application of said provision to any other land, parcel, lot, district, use,
building or structure not specifically included in said ruling.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 9.2)
§ 154.387 PERIOD OF EFFECTIVENESS.
   This chapter shall remain in full force and effect henceforth unless
repealed.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 9.3)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Uses of land and dwellings, buildings or structures, including tents and
mobile homes, used, erected, altered, razed or converted in violation of any
provision of this chapter are hereby declared to be a nuisance per se. The
court shall order such nuisance abated, and the owner and/or agent in charge of
such dwelling, building, structure, tent, trailer coach or land shall be
adjudged of maintaining a nuisance per se. Anyone violating the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more
than $500 and the costs of prosecuting thereof, or imprisonment in the County
Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any
sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-18-1991, § 6.7)
APPENDIX A: REGULATING PLAN AND ZONING MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cc0aa480fd92c3f44a211e415c5f3ca0ff333618/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1092.png]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS
MCL Section Code Section
MCL Section       Code Section
15.231 et seq.    112.04;
                  112.17
                  34.01;
28.451 et seq.    98.01;
                  98.05
54.211            153.05
                  31.01—
61.1 et seq.      31.04;
                  32.12;
                  34.04
117.5b            10.01
125.401 et seq.   154.005
125.581 et seq.   30.03
125.1501 et seq.  150.01;
                  154.075
125.2301 et seq.  154.096
                  30.02;
                  30.03;
125.3101 et seq.  154.001;
                  154.310;
                  154.346;
                  154.371
125.3308          154.363
125.3405          154.360;
                  154.368
125.3801 et seq.  30.02
125.4101 et seq.  33.02
                  33.02;
125.4201 et seq.  33.05;
                  33.08;
                  33.09
141.101 et seq.   50.25;
                  50.35
141.103           50.26
141.121           50.28
141.421 et seq.   31.03
205.701 et seq.   32.22
247.61 et seq.    91.02
247.651 et seq.   112.03;
                  112.13
257.301 et seq.   70.02
257.648           70.03
257.657a(1)       70.03
333.26421 et seq. 96.01;
                  96.02
333.27101 et seq. 96.02
333.27951 et seq. 96.02
400.701 et seq.   154.005
436.651 et seq.   154.005
436.1405          154.005
436.1407          154.005
436.1537          154.005
484.2102          112.03
484.2251          112.04
484.3101 et seq.  112.01;
                  112.03
484.3103          112.03;
                  112.04
484.3104(2)       112.16
484.3104(3)       112.07
484.3105(3)       112.04
484.3105(4)       112.04
484.3106(1)       112.04;
                  112.05
484.3106(2)       112.04;
                  112.05
484.3106(5)       112.04
484.3106(6)       112.05
484.3106(7)       112.08
484.3106(8)       112.08
484.3108          112.10—
                  112.12
484.3110(4)       112.13
484.3110(5)       112.14
484.3113(1)       112.11
484.3113(4)       112.11
484.3113(5)       112.12
484.3113(6)       112.15
484.3115          112.05
484.3115(2)       112.18
484.3115(3)       112.05
484.3115(4)       112.05
484.3115(5)       112.09
493.51 et seq.    33.06
559.101 et seq.   154.275,
                  154.276
559.108           154.278
559.140           154.277
559.166           154.277
559.171           154.278
560.101 et seq.   153.02
560.108           153.03
560.109           153.03
560.267           153.99
600.8396          10.12;
                  96.07
600.8701 et seq.  10.02
600.8709          10.99
722.111 et seq.   154.005
764.9c            10.10
                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2023 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2023 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.05              10.05
10.06              10.06
10.07              10.07
10.08              10.08
10.09              10.09
10.10              10.10
10.11              10.11
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.03
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.03              31.03
32.01              32.01
32.02              32.02
32.03              32.03
32.04              32.04
32.05              32.05
32.06              32.06
32.07              32.07
32.08              32.08
32.09              32.09
32.10              32.10
32.11              32.11
32.12              32.12
32.13              32.13
32.14              32.14
32.15              32.15
32.16              32.16
32.17              32.17
32.18              32.18
32.19              32.19
32.20              32.20
32.21              32.21
32.22              32.22
32.23              32.23
32.24              32.24
32.25              32.25
32.26              32.26
32.27              32.27
32.28              32.28
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
33.03              33.03
33.04              33.04
33.05              33.05
33.06              33.06
33.07              33.07
33.08              33.08
33.09              33.09
35.01              35.01
35.02              35.02
35.03              35.03
35.04              35.04
50.01              50.01
50.02              50.02
50.03              50.03
50.04              50.04
50.05              50.05
50.06              50.06
50.07              50.07
50.08              50.08
50.09              50.09
50.10              50.10
50.11              50.11
50.12              50.12
50.13              50.13
50.14              50.14
50.25              50.25
50.26              50.26
50.27              50.27
50.28              50.28
50.29              50.29
50.30              50.30
50.31              50.31
50.32              50.32
50.33              50.33
50.34              50.34
50.35              50.35
50.99              50.99
Ch. 50, Appx. A    Ch. 50, Appx. A
Ch. 50, Appx. B    Ch. 50, Appx. B
51.01              51.01
51.02              51.02
51.03              51.03
52.01              52.01
52.02              52.02
52.03              52.03
52.04              52.04
52.05              52.05
52.99              52.99
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.07              90.07
90.11              90.20
90.12              90.21
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.02
91.02              91.03
91.03              91.04
91.04              91.05
91.05              91.06
91.99              91.99
92.01              92.01
92.15              92.15
92.16              92.16
92.18              92.18
92.19              92.17
92.20              92.19
92.21              92.22
92.22              92.23
92.23              92.21
92.24              92.23
92.25              92.24
92.35              92.40
92.36              92.41
92.37              92.42
92.38              92.43
92.39              92.44
92.40              92.45
92.41              92.46
92.42              92.47
92.99              92.99
93.01              93.01
93.02              93.02
93.03              93.03
93.04              93.04
93.05              93.05
93.06              93.06
93.07              93.07
93.99              93.99
94.01              94.01
94.02              94.02
94.03              94.03
94.04              94.04
94.05              94.05
94.06              94.06
94.07              94.07
94.99              94.99
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.05             110.05
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
111.08             111.08
111.09             111.09
111.10             111.10
111.11             111.11
111.12             111.12
111.13             111.13
111.14             111.14
111.15             111.15
111.16             111.16
111.17             111.17
111.18             111.18
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.06             112.06
112.07             112.07
112.08             112.08
112.09             112.09
112.10             112.10
112.11             112.11
112.12             112.12
112.13             112.13
112.14             112.14
112.15             112.15
112.16             112.16
112.17             112.17
112.18             112.18
112.99             112.99
130.01             130.01
130.02             130.02
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
150.03             150.03
150.05             150.04
150.06             30.04;
                   150.05
150.07             150.06
150.20             150.20
150.21             150.21
150.22             150.22
150.99             150.99
151.01             151.01
151.02             151.02
151.99             151.99
152.01             152.01
152.02             152.02
152.03             152.03
152.04             152.04
152.05             152.05
152.06             152.06
152.07             152.07
152.08             152.08
152.09             152.09
152.10             152.10
152.11             152.11;
                   152.99
153.01             153.01
153.02             153.02
153.03             153.03
153.04             153.04
153.05             153.05
153.06             153.06
153.07             153.07
153.08             153.08
153.99             153.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             - -         31.04
                          95.01—
-             - -         95.10;
                          95.99
                          97.01—
37            - -         97.08;
                          97.99
-             2-6-1990    33.01—
                          33.09
                          154.001—
                          154.006;
                          154.020;
                          154.021;
                          154.023;
                          154.024;
                          154.042;
                          154.081;
                          154.083;
                          154.095;
                          154.165—
                          154.167;
                          154.169—
                          154.172;
                          154.185;
-             6-18-1991   154.187;
                          154.225;
                          154.227—
                          154.234;
                          154.245—
                          154.248;
                          154.290—
                          154.296;
                          154.310—
                          154.313;
                          154.325—
                          154.331;
                          154.345—
                          154.347;
                          154.385—
                          154.387;
                          154.999 
20            7-20-1993   32.01—
                          32.28
23            9-7-1993    111.01—
                          111.18
                          50.01—
21            10-19-1993  50.14;
                          50.99
22            10-19-1993  50.25—
                          50.35
-             12-7-1993   30.01;
                          30.03
                          154.005;
-             1-7-1994    154.275—
                          154.278 
-             2-15-1994   90.01
                          93.01—
10            2-15-1994   93.07;
                          93.99
                          151.01;
11            2-15-1994   151.02;
                          151.99
12            2-15-1994   130.01;
                          130.99
13            2-15-1994   130.02;
                          130.99
15            2-15-1994   92.01;
                          92.99
16            2-15-1994   51.01—
                          51.03
                          52.01—
18            2-15-1994   52.05;
                          52.99
                          92.15—
26            3-1-1994    92.24;
                          92.99
22            8-15-1994   50.30
-             10-6-1994   154.005;
                          154.083
-             12-8-1994   154.005
21            3-7-1995    50.05
-             9-7-1995    154.005
                          92.16;
                          92.18;
26            11-6-1995   92.19;
                          92.22;
                          92.24
-             2-15-1996   154.193
                          153.01—
28            10-20-1997  153.08;
                          153.99
                          30.04;
5             4-6-1998    150.01—
                          150.06;
                          150.99
17            7-6-1998    33.06
98-1          7-6-1998    153.99
29            1-16-1999   35.01—
                          35.04
                          154.005;
                          154.140—
-             9-27-1999   154.151;
                          154.168;
                          154.189;
                          154.190 
                          154.005;
                          154.041;
-             1-17-2000   154.082;
                          154.110—
                          154.113 
33            2-21-2000   31.01
                          92.40—
-             10-3-2000   92.47;
                          92.99
                          154.186;
                          154.188;
-             12-30-2000  154.226;
                          154.260;
                          154.261 
34            5-1-2001    31.02
-             8-18-2002   154.005
                          112.01—
35            4-15-2003   112.18;
                          112.99
                          154.025;
-             3-1-2004    154.026;
                          154.192
                          91.02—
36            12-20-2005  91.06;
                          91.99
37            9-18-2007   31.03
38            10-16-2007  32.19;
                          32.22
                          154.005;
                          154.022;
                          154.040;
                          154.055;
                          154.056;
                          154.058;
-             5-20-2009   154.060;
                          154.061;
                          154.077;
                          154.078;
                          154.083;
                          154.174;
                          154.189;
                          154.329
                          152.01—
39            1-19-2010   152.11;
                          152.99
                          94.01—
40            11-2-2010   94.07;
                          94.99
                          154.005;
                          154.057;
                          154.059;
-             11-16-2010  154.075;
                          154.079;
                          154.096;
                          154.097
-             6-21-2011   30.02
                          90.01;
-             2-7-2012    90.20;
                          90.21;
                          90.99
-             9-2-2014    90.08
-             9-15-2015   154.189
                          154.058;
                          154.075;
                          154.186;
-             12-15-2015  154.191;
                          154.194;
                          154.205—
                          154.212 
-             6-21-2016   113.01—
                          113.11
                          154.056;
-             7-17-2018   154.057;
                          154.076;
                          154.262
91.101        6-4-2019    91.01
                          154.005;
-             9-17-2019   154.057;
                          154.078
                          154.005;
-             11-23-2019  154.080;
                          154.096
-             7-1-2020    10.12;
                          10.99
2021-01-19-01 1-19-2021   113.25—
                          113.34
2021-04-06-01 4-20-2021   113.25—
                          113.34
-             11-16-2021  50.36
                          70.01—
-             11-16-2021  70.05;
                          70.99
                          96.01—
-             12-21-2021  96.07;
                          96.99
31.04         2-15-2022   31.06
                          114.01—
07192022.1    7-19-2022   114.13;
                          114.99
-             12-19-2023  154.078
                          154.005;
                          154.057;
-             12-19-2023  154.058;
                          154.075;
                          154.096;
                          154.186
                          154.005;
                          154.075;
                          154.096;
-             12-19-2023  154.097;
                          154.186;
                          154.189;
                          154.232
                         
 
 
