VILLAGE OF HOMER, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2023 S-9, current through:
Ordinance 2023-01, passed 8-7-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance 09-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF HOMER, REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF HOMER DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE
OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of
Homer are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the Village of Homer to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, the Village of Homer council has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the Village of Homer of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF HOMER:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Village of Homer as revised,
amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and
shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Homer."
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in section 1 shall consist
of the following ttles:
   TITLE I:   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE III:   ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V:   PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII:   TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX:   GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI:   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII:   GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV:   LAND USAGE
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   I.   Zoning Map Changes
   II.   Franchises
PARALLEL REFERENCES
INDEX
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Village Council and the Clerk of the Village of
Homer is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Village Council of the Village of Homer on this 4th
day of May, 2009.
First reading and adoption.
May 4, 2009
Ayes: Burkwalt, George, Michael, Sherman, Warner, and Miller
Nays: None
Absent: Robison
Christopher L. Miller /s/       Teresa R. Hayes /s/
President            Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the Homer Village Code.
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CODE.  The Homer Village Code, as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Calhoun, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code
or any other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions,
including, without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be
ordered, as authorized by M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through 600.8735, as amended. A
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense of any criminal
offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of the Village of
Homer, Michigan." Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the
village is assigned any duty, or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the village and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      VILLAGE.  The Village of Homer, Michigan.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL or COUNCIL.  The Village Council of the Village of Homer.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or
division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code, and all the
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set out at length in this code:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village or any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the
village;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
      (10)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any
village officers or employees;
      (12)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones,
specific speed zones, parking meter zones, and specific stop or yield
intersections or other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
      (13)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
      (14)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
   (B)   The ordinances are on file in the Village Clerk's office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done; offense committed; right accruing, accrued, or acquired; or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: " That Section _____ of the Homer Village Code,
is hereby amended to read as follows: . . ." The new provisions shall then be
set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: " That the Homer Village Code is hereby
amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which the section reads as
follows: . . ." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words " this ordinance " or words of the same meaning to
" this chapter, "   " this subchapter, "   " this division, " and the like, as
the case may be, or to " §§ _____ through _____ " (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9(a) et seq., as amended, when the public servant has
reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed an offense in violation
of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Health Officer;
   (B)   Building Inspector;
   (C)   Fire Marshal;
   (D)   Fire Chief;
   (E)   Police Officer; and
   (F)   Code Enforcement Officer.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances repealed not reenacted, see §
10.07
   Prior rights, offenses, and the like, see §
10.06
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and, in that event, the greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty is
reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
         
31.   ELECTION AND COMPENSATION OF TRUSTEES
         
32.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
33.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
         
34.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT PLAN
         
35.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
         
36.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
30.01   Definitions
   
30.02   Commencement of action; procedure
   
30.03   Citation contents
   
30.04   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
30.05   Enforcement official
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 through 600.9948, as amended.
   AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. A police officer, code enforcement officer, or
other personnel of the village authorized to issue municipal civil infractions.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which a person is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized village official, directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation
by the person cited.
(Prior Code, § 122.01) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 30.02 COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Commencement of municipal civil infraction action. A municipal civil
infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance, by an authorized village
official, of a municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court.
(Prior Code, § 122.02)
   (B)   Issuance and service of municipal civil infraction citations.
Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by authorized
village officials as follows.
      (1)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
      (2)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the
District Court.
      (3)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a
form approved by the State Court Administrator. The original citation shall be
filed with the District Court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the
village and issued to the alleged violator as provided by M.C.L.A. § 600.8705.
      (4)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
village official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged
in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the citation
and if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date
and signature of the official: " I declare under the penalties of perjury that
the statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and
belief. "
      (5)   An authorized village official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
      (6)   An authorized village official may issue a citation to a person if:
         (a)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
         (b)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction and if the Village Attorney approves, in writing, the issuance
of the citation.
      (7)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an
authorized village official as follows.
         (a)   Except as provided by division (B)(7)(b) below, an authorized
village official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
         (b)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building, or any other structure, a copy of the citation
does not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be
served upon an owner or occupant of the land, building, or structure by posting
the copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In
addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner
of the land, building, or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Prior Code, § 122.03)
§ 30.03 CITATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name of the
municipality, the name and address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil
infraction alleged, the place where the alleged violator shall appear in court,
the telephone number of the court, and the time at or by which the appearance
shall be made.
   (B)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator that he or she may
do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction " with
explanation " by mail, in person, or by representation, at or by the time
specified for appearance; or
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
District Court Magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the village;
or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   If the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility " with
explanation " in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply
to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance;
      (2)   If the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the alleged
violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by
representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is specified on
the citation;
      (3)   A hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing is
requested by the alleged violator or the village;
      (4)   At an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge or District Court Magistrate, without the opportunity of being
represented by an attorney; and
      (5)   At a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear before a
judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall also contain a notice in boldfaced-type that the
failure of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the
citation or at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor
and will result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on
the municipal civil infraction.
(Prior Code, § 122.04)
§ 30.04 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Establishment. The village hereby establishes a Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau (the Bureau), as authorized under M.C.L.A. § 600.8396, to
accept admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infractions in response
to municipal civil infraction violation notices issued and served by authorized
village officials, and to collect and retain civil fines and costs as
prescribed by this code or any other ordinance and to require abatement of all
violations of this code and any ordinance.
   (B)   Location; supervision; employees; rules and regulations. The Bureau
shall be located at Village Hall and shall be under the supervision and control
of the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk, subject to the approval of Council,
shall adopt rules and regulations for the operation of the Bureau and appoint
any necessary qualified village employee to administer the Bureau.
   (C)   Disposition of violations. The Bureau may dispose only of municipal
civil infraction violations for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a
municipal civil infraction violation notice (in contrast to a citation) has
been issued. The fact that a fine has been scheduled for a particular violation
shall not absolve any person of the responsibility for abatement. Nothing in
this section shall prevent or restrict the village from issuing a municipal
civil infraction citation for any violation or from prosecuting any violation
in a court of competent jurisdiction. No person shall be required to dispose of
a municipal civil infraction violation at the Bureau and may have the violation
processed before the Tenth District Court. The unwillingness of any person to
dispose of any violation at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person or in any
way diminish the person’s rights, privileges, and protection accorded by law.
   (D)   Scope of authority. The scope of the Bureau's authority shall be
limited to accepting admissions of responsibility for municipal civil
infractions and collecting and retaining civil fines and costs and causing the
repair and/or corrections cited in the violation, as a result of those
admissions. The Bureau shall not accept payment of a fine from any person who
denies having committed the offense or who admits responsibility with
explanation, and in no event shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to an alleged
violation.
   (E)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices. In addition to any other
information required by this code and any other ordinance, the notice of
violation shall indicate the time by which the alleged violator must appear at
the Bureau, the methods by which an appearance may be made, the address and
telephone number of the Bureau, the hours during which the Bureau is open, the
amount of the fine scheduled for the alleged violation, the repair and or
corrections to be made to abate the cited violation, and the consequences for
failure to appear and pay the required fine within the required time.
   (F)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs. An alleged violator receiving
a municipal civil infraction violation notice shall appear at the Bureau and
pay the specified fine and costs at or by the time specified for appearance in
the municipal civil infraction violation notice. An appearance may be made by
mail, in person, or by representation.
   (G)   Appearance; abatement to repair and/or correct. An alleged violator
receiving a municipal civil infraction violation notice may appear at the
Bureau and admit responsibility to the alleged violation and agree to repair
and/or correct the cited violations by the specified time on the violation
notice and not be assessed fines or costs.
   (H)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid.
If an authorized village official issues and serves a municipal civil
infraction violation notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made
and the civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines set
forth in this chapter for the violation, are not paid at the Bureau, a
municipal civil infraction citation may be filed with the Tenth District Court,
and a copy of the citation may be served by first-class mail upon the alleged
violator at the alleged violator's last known address. The citation filed with
the Court does not need to comply in all particulars with the requirements for
citations as provided by M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8705 and 600.8709, but shall consist
of a sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the municipal civil
infraction violation notice and shall inform the alleged violator how to
respond to the citation.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 6-16-2008) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.05 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   If provisions of this code do not directly name a village official who is
responsible for carrying out enforcement provisions, the Village Manager may
direct any one of his or her employees, officers, or another agency to perform
the stated enforcement provisions.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless a violation of this section or any ordinance of the village is
specifically designated in the section as a municipal civil infraction, the
violation shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor.
   (B)   A violation includes any act which is prohibited or made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense by this code or any ordinance, or any omission or
failure to act whether the act is required by this code or any ordinance.
   (C)   Each day on which any violation of this code or any ordinance
continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or
sanctions as a separate offense.
   (D)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the village may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain,
prevent, or abate any violation of this code or any village ordinance.
   (E)   The penalty for a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not exceeding
$500, plus costs of prosecution, or imprisonment not exceeding 93 days, or
both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the violation by this
section or any ordinance.
   (F)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by this code or any ordinance,
plus any costs, damages, expenses, injunctive relief, and other sanctions, as
authorized under Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et
seq., and other applicable laws.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation by this code or any ordinance, the civil fine for a
violation shall be not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs, injunctive
relief, and other sanctions, for each infraction. Costs shall include all
expenses, direct and indirect, to which the village has been put in connection
with the municipal civil infraction.
      (2)   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations by a
person of any requirement or provision of this code or any ordinance. As used
in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal
civil infraction violation of the same requirement or provision committed by a
person within a six-month period (unless some other period is specifically
provided by this code or any ordinance), and for which the person admits
responsibility or is determined to be responsible (unless otherwise
specifically provided by this code or any ordinance) for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation, the increased fine for a repeat offense shall be as
herein described.
   (G)   The schedule of civil fines and penalties is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 120.10) (Ord. 2008-01, passed 6-16-2008)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTION AND COMPENSATION OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
31.01   Biennial elections; term of office
   
31.02   Compensation
§ 31.01 BIENNIAL ELECTIONS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Three of the Trustees shall be elected at each biennial village
election for the term of four years and until their successors are qualified.
   (B)   The President shall be elected at each biennial village election for
the term of two years and until his or her successor has been qualified.
(Ord. 05-01, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   The President shall receive the sum of $100 per month, but the full amount
to be paid to the President shall not exceed the amount of $1,200 for any one
year of service as the member. Each Trustee shall receive the sum of $50 per
month, but the full amount to be paid to each Trustee shall not exceed the sum
of $600 for any one year of service as the member. No member of the Village
Council or the Council President shall receive (unless authorized by a majority
vote of the members thereof) any part of the pay or compensation for any month
in which he or she does not attend the regular meeting(s) or during any part of
the year or term during which he or she may hold the Office of President or
Trustee unless excused by a majority vote of the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 140.01)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Village Manager
   
32.01   Office established
   
32.02   Appointment
   
32.03   Acting Village Manager
   
32.04   Compensation
   
32.05   Duties
   
32.06   Purchasing authority
   
32.07   Interference with duties prohibited
Street Commissioner
   
32.20   Custody and care of equipment
   
32.21   New equipment recommendations
   
32.22   Annual inventory
   
32.23   Annual report
VILLAGE MANAGER
§ 32.01 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with the authority for the appointment of any village officers
as the Council shall deem necessary for the execution of the powers granted to
the village contained in M.C.L.A. §§ 62.2 and 65.8, as amended, which is the
Charter of the village, there is hereby established the Office of Village
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 160.01)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The President shall, with the concurrence of four or more Trustees,
appoint a Village Manager for an indefinite term and the Council may, by
contract, enter into any other terms and conditions as the Manager and Council
deem appropriate. The Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and
may be removed by the affirmative vote of four or more Trustees, but only after
a hearing before the Council. The President may, for cause, suspend the Manager
with full pay until the hearing. The action of the Council in removing the
Manager shall be final.
   (B)   The Manager shall be selected solely on the basis of administrative
and executive abilities with special reference to training and experience.
   (C)   The Manager need not be a resident of the village at the time of
appointment but must reside within 20 miles of the corporate limits of the
village or become a village resident within 180 days from the date of the
appointment with extensions permitted upon approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 160.02)
§ 32.03 ACTING VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   The President, with the concurrence of four or more Trustees, shall
appoint or designate an Acting Manager during a vacancy in the Office of
Village Manager and shall make a permanent appointment within 180 days from the
effective date of the vacancy.
   (B)   A Village Manager, appointed in accordance with §
32.02, shall be deemed to be the Acting Manager from the date of appointment
until the appointee becomes a resident, if residency is deemed to be a
qualification for the appointment.
(Prior Code, § 160.03)
§ 32.04 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Manager shall receive any compensation as the Council determines
annually by resolution or contract.
(Prior Code, § 160.04)
§ 32.05 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall be chief administrative officer of the
village and shall be responsible to the Village Council for the efficient
administration of all affairs of the village and shall exercise management
supervision over all departments, except the Fire Department, and over all
public property belonging to the village.
   (B)   The Manager shall have the following functions and duties:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the Village Council and committees thereof
and take part therein, but without a vote;
      (2)   Be responsible for personnel management and shall issue, subject to
Council approval, personnel rules applicable to all village employees. The
Manager shall have the following responsibilities:
         (a)   To appoint, suspend, or remove all appointed administrative
officers and department heads, except Fire Department, subject to Council
approval. The Manager shall recommend to the Council the salary or wages to be
paid each official; and
         (b)   To appoint, suspend, or remove all other employees of the
village. All these actions shall be based on merit and taken pursuant to
personnel rules approved by the Council. The Manager shall fix the salaries or
wages of all the employees.
      (3)   Exercise supervisory control over all departments, including the
Police Department and the Department of Public Works. The Chief of Police and
Street Commissioner shall be subject to the direction of the Manager;
      (4)   Exercise supervisory responsibility over the accounting, budgeting,
personnel, purchasing, and related management functions of the Village Clerk
and Village Treasurer;
      (5)   Shall be authorized to attend all meetings of village boards and
commissions, including the Planning Commission, with the right to take part
therein, but without a vote;
      (6)   Prepare and administer the budget as provided for in the Uniform
Budgeting and Accounting Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 141.421 through 141.440(a), as
amended;
      (7)   Be the purchasing agent of the village;
      (8)   Prepare and maintain an administrative code defining the duties and
functions of the several officers and department of the village, subject to
approval by the Council;
      (9)   Investigate all complaints concerning the administration of the
village, and shall have authority at all times to inspect the books, records,
and papers of any agent, employee, or officer of the village;
      (10)   Make recommendations to the Council for the adoption of any
measures as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the improvement or
betterment of the village; and
      (11)   Perform other duties required from time to time by the Village
Council.
(Prior Code, § 160.05)
§ 32.06 PURCHASING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall act as purchasing agent for all village
offices and departments. The Manager may delegate some or all of the duties as
purchasing agent to another officer or employee, provided that the delegation
shall not relieve the Manager of the responsibility for the proper conduct of
those duties.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any product
or service the cost of which does not exceed $1,500, provided that funds have
been appropriated. The cost of the product or service shall not exceed the
unencumbered balance of the appropriation for that account. Except as
hereinafter provided, the Village Manager shall not purchase any product or
service the cost of which exceeds the above dollar amount without prior
approval of the Village Council. The Village Manager may promulgate rules
governing the purchase of products or services.
   (C)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any product
or service regardless of its cost when the purchase is necessitated by an
emergency condition. EMERGENCY CONDITION is defined to mean any event which
presents an imminent threat to the public health or safety or any event which
would result in the disruption of a village service which is essential to the
public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 160.06)
§ 32.07 INTERFERENCE WITH DUTIES PROHIBITED.
   Neither the Council nor the Village President shall attempt to influence the
employment of any person by the Village Manager or in any way interfere in the
management of departments under the jurisdiction of the Manager. Except for
purpose of inquiry, the President and Council and its members shall deal with
departments under the jurisdiction of the Village Manager through the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 160.07)
STREET COMMISSIONER
§ 32.20 CUSTODY AND CARE OF EQUIPMENT.
   The Village Street Commissioner shall have the custody of all tools,
equipment, and vehicles of every kind purchased and owned by the village and he
or she shall provide proper care for same.
(Prior Code, § 162.01)
§ 32.21 NEW EQUIPMENT RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to purchase new tools, equipment, and
vehicles, the tools, vehicles, and equipment shall be purchased only upon the
recommendation of the Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 162.02)
§ 32.22 ANNUAL INVENTORY.
   On or before April 1 of each year, the Street Commissioner shall make and
file in his or her office a complete inventory of the property which shall
contain a careful and correct estimate of the value of each separate article
and, in case any new articles have been purchased during the preceding year,
the inventory shall state the collective amount of the purchases.
(Prior Code, § 162.03)
§ 32.23 ANNUAL REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to read the inventory before
the Village Council at the first regular meeting held during the month of April
of each year and report his or her actions thereon, and also at any other times
as the Village Council may direct. All actions upon the provisions of this
subchapter shall be subject to the judgement of the Village Council relative to
the purchase of new tools, equipment, and vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 162.04)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Downtown Development Authority
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Creation
   
33.04   Downtown District boundaries
   
33.05   Board of Directors
   
33.06   Powers
   
33.07   Fiscal year
   
33.08   Termination
Planning Commission
   
33.20   Planning Commission established
   
33.21   Members; term; voting rights; compensation; removal; vacancies
   
33.22   Organization; meetings; rules; records
   
33.23   Employees; contract authority and limits
   
33.24   Statutory functions
   
33.25   Delegated functions
   
33.26   Master plan
   
33.27   Standards and purpose
   
33.28   Adoption procedure
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 197. Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through
125.1681, as now in effect or hereafter amended.
   AUTHORITY. The Downtown Development Authority of the Village of Homer
created by this subchapter.
   BOARD or BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors of the Authority.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The Downtown District designated herein or as hereafter
amended.
   PRESIDENT. The President of the Village of Homer.
   VILLAGE MANAGER. The Village Manager of the Village of Homer.
(Prior Code, § 180.01)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   The Village Council hereby determines and finds that it is in the best
interest of the village to create a public body corporate in order to halt
property value deterioration and increase property tax evaluation where
possible in the Downtown District, eliminate the causes of that deterioration,
and to promote economic growth pursuant to Act 197.
(Prior Code, § 180.02)
§ 33.03 CREATION.
   There is hereby created pursuant to Act 197 a Downtown Development Authority
for the village. The Authority shall be a public body corporate and shall be
known and exercise its powers under title of " Downtown Development Authority
of the Village of Homer. " The Authority may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued
in any court of this state, and shall possess all powers necessary to carry out
the purpose of its incorporation, as provided herein and in Act 197. The
enumeration of a power herein or in Act 197 shall not be construed as
limitation of the general powers of the Authority.
(Prior Code, § 180.03)
§ 33.04 DOWNTOWN DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Downtown District in which the Authority shall exercise
its powers, as provided by Act 197, shall consist of the property in the
village described on Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance and made a part
herein, subject to changes as may hereinafter be made pursuant to this
subchapter and Act 197.
   (B)   Original boundaries.
   (C)   Authority District boundaries. Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 25, 26, 27, 28,
29, 30,31, 32, 33,107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118,
119, 120, 121, 122, 123, and 124 of the village, according to the plat thereof
recorded in Liber 1 of Plats, on page 3, in the office of the Register of Deeds
for the county.
   (D)   Amended boundaries.
      (1)   Parcel 1. Lot No.7 of the "Original Plat of the Village of Homer,"
according to the plat thereof recorded in Liber 1 of Plats, on page 3, in the
office of the Register of Deeds for the county;
      (2)   Parcel 2. The following lots, all part of the "Original Plat of the
Village of Homer," according to the plat thereof recorded in Liber 1 of Plats,
on page 3, in the office of the Register of Deeds for the county: 34, 35, 36,
53, 54, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, and 66;
      (3)   Parcel 3. The following lots or portions of lots, all part of the
"Original Plat of the Village of Homer," according to the plat thereof recorded
in Liber 1 of Plats, on page 3, in the office of the Register of Deeds for the
county: 125, 126 (except for the east 48 feet), 132, 169, 170, 171, 175, 176,
177, 178, 179, 180, and 181; and
      (4)   Parcel 4. The following lots or portions of lots, all part of the
Village Assessor’s Plat No.1, according to the plat thereof recorded in Liber
9A of Plats, on page 11, in the office of the Register of Deeds for the county:
13, 14, the north 40.25 feet of the east one-half of 19, and the north 40.25
feet of 20.
      (5)   Parcel 5. The following lots or portions of lots, all part of the
Village Assessor’s Plat No.l, according to the plat thereof recorded in Liber 1
of Plats, on page 3, in the office of the Register of Deeds for the county:
127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 20, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54,
133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 182, 183, 184, 185, 186, 139, U, X, Y, Z, AA, BB,
CC, DD, EE and FF; and all of Mahany’s addition, along with property listed as;
HOMER VILLAGE T4S R4W SECTION 6 COMM CENTER OF SECTION S 00*37'30" E 1018.09
FT, S 89*22'30" W 33.00 FT TO W LINE 24-1/2 MILE RD AND POB, S 00*37'30" E
656.36 FT ALONG 24-1/2 MILE RD, TO N LINE M-60, S 88*22'30" E 660.87 FT TO POB
10.00 AC +/-.
(Prior Code, § 180.04) (Am. Ord. 10-01, passed 2-1-2010)
§ 33.05 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board
consisting of the President or Village Manager and 12 members. The members
shall be appointed by the President subject to approval of the Council.
Eligibility for membership on the Board in terms of office shall be as provided
in Act 197. Each member shall hold office until the member’s successor is
appointed.
(Prior Code, § 180.05)
§ 33.06 POWERS.
   The Authority shall possess all of the powers necessary to carry out the
purposes of its incorporation and shall have all provided by Act 197.
(Prior Code, § 180.06)
§ 33.07 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall begin on January 1 of each year and end on December 31
of the same, or any other fiscal year may hereafter be adopted by the village.
(Prior Code, § 180.07)
§ 33.08 TERMINATION.
   Upon completion of its purposes, the Authority may be dissolved by an
ordinance duly adopted by the Village Council. The property and assets of the
Authority, after disillusion and satisfaction of its obligations, shall revert
to the village.
(Prior Code, § 180.08)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.20 PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created the Village Planning Commission to serve as a
municipal planning commission as provided in Public Act 285 of 1931, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through 125.45, as amended. The Village Planning Commission
shall be a public body and shall exercise its statutory powers and duties
together with any other responsibilities as may be delegated to it by this or
other codes or resolutions of the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 182.01)
§ 33.21 MEMBERS; TERM; VOTING RIGHTS; COMPENSATION; REMOVAL; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission shall consist of up to seven members
as follows: one member shall be a member of the Village Council and shall be
selected by resolution of the Council to serve as a member ex officio; and the
remaining members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the Village
President as further provided in this section. The minimum number of voting
members shall be three, meeting the criteria as described previously in this
division.
   (B)   An appointment by the Village President shall be subject to approval
of the Village Council by majority vote. All appointed members of the Planning
Commission may be compensated at a rate to be determined by the Village
Council. An appointed member shall not hold another municipal office, except
that one appointed member shall be a member of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
or Appeals. The term of the ex officio member shall be determined by the
Village Council and shall be stated in the resolution selecting the ex officio
member, but the term shall not exceed the member's term of office as a member
of the Village Council. The term of each appointed member shall be for three
years or until his or her successor takes office, except that the respective
terms of two of the members first appointed shall be for one year and two for
two years. An ex officio member appointed under this division (B) shall have
full voting rights.
   (C)   After a public hearing, a member other than the ex officio member may
be removed by the Village President for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or
malfeasance in office. The Village Council may for like cause remove the ex
officio member.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006; Am. Ord. -, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 33.22 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; RULES; RECORDS.
   The Village Planning Commission shall elect its Chairperson from amongst the
appointed members and create and fill any other of its offices as it may
determine. The term of Chairperson shall be one year, with eligibility for
reelection. The Village Planning Commission shall meet as needed. It shall
adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations, which record shall be
a public record.
(Prior Code, § 182.03) (Am. Ord. -, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 33.23 EMPLOYEES; CONTRACT AUTHORITY AND LIMITS.
   The Village Planning Commission may appoint any employees as it may deem
necessary for its work, whose appointment, promotion, demotion, and removal
shall be subject to the same provisions of law as govern other corresponding
civil employees of the village. The Village Planning Commission may also
contract with municipal planners, engineers, architects, and other consultants
for any services as it may require. The expenditures of the Village Planning
Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for
that purpose by the Village Council, which shall provide the funds, equipment,
and accommodations necessary for the Village Planning Commission's work.
(Prior Code, § 182.04)
§ 33.24 STATUTORY FUNCTIONS.
   The Village Planning Commission shall exercise all statutory authority and
carry out all statutory duties as set forth in M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through
125.45, as amended, and M.C.L.A. §§ 125.51 through 125.55, as amended,
including the review and approval of proposed public works and public
improvements and the review and approval of proposed plats.
(Prior Code, § 182.08)
§ 33.25 DELEGATED FUNCTIONS.
   The Village Planning Commission, subject to the provisions of Public Act 207
of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 through 125.590, as amended, and other
applicable statutes, shall review applications and proposals and provide
recommendations to the Village Council and other appropriate officials with
regard to all matters of land use, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Requests for changes in the zoning map;
   (B)   Requests for amendments to the zoning code;
   (C)   Requests for site plan approval;
   (D)   Requests for special land use permits;
   (E)   Requests for land division approval;
   (F)   Requests for wetlands and flood plain use permits;
   (G)   Other land use matters referred to the Village Planning Commission by
the Village Council; and
   (H)   Other land use matters on which the Village Planning Commission wishes
to submit a recommendation to the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 182.09)
§ 33.26 MASTER PLAN.
   The Village Planning Commission shall make and adopt a master plan for the
physical development of the village, including any areas outside of its
boundaries which, in the Village Planning Commission's judgment, bear relation
to the planning of the village. The plan, with the accompanying maps, plats,
charts, and descriptive matter, shall show the Village Planning Commission's
recommendations for the development of the territory, including, among other
things, the general location, character, and extent of streets, viaducts,
subways, bridges, waterways, flood plains, waterfronts, boulevards, parkways,
playgrounds, and open spaces; the general location of public buildings and
other public property; and the general location and extent of public utilities
and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned or operated, for water,
light, sanitation, transportation, communication, power, and other purposes;
also the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment,
change of use, or extension of any of the foregoing ways, grounds, open spaces,
buildings, property, utilities, or terminals; the general location, character,
layout, and extent of community centers and neighborhood units; and the general
character, extent, and layout of the replanning and redevelopment of blighted
districts and slum areas; as well as a zoning plan for the control of the
height, area, bulk, location, and use of buildings and premises. As the work of
making the whole master plan progresses, the Village Planning Commission from
time to time may adopt and publish parts thereof, any such part to cover one or
more major sections or divisions of the village or one or more of the aforesaid
or other functional matters to be included in the plan. The Village Planning
Commission from time to time may amend, extend, or add to the plan.
(Prior Code, § 182.05)
§ 33.27 STANDARDS AND PURPOSE.
   In the preparation of the plan, the Village Planning Commission shall make
careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of present conditions and future
growth of the village and with due regard to its relation to the neighboring
territory. The plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the
village and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future
needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity, and
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development; including, among other things, adequate provision for traffic, the
promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light
and air, the promotion of the healthful and convenient distribution of
population, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement, wise and
efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate provision of public
utilities and other public requirements.
(Prior Code, § 182.06)
§ 33.28 ADOPTION PROCEDURE.
   The Village Planning Commission may adopt the plan as a whole by a single
resolution or may by successive resolutions adopt successive parts of the plan,
the parts corresponding with major geographical sections or divisions of the
village or with functional subdivisions of the subject matter of the plan, and
may adopt any amendment or extension thereof or addition thereto. Before the
adoption of the plan or any such part, amendment, extension, or addition, the
Village Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing thereon,
notice of the time and place of which shall be given, not less than 15 days
prior to the hearing, by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village and in the official gazette, if any, of the village, and by
registered United States mail to each public utility company and to each
railroad company owning or operating any public utility or railroad within the
geographical sections or divisions of the village affected. The adoption of the
plan or of any such part, amendment, extension, or addition shall be by
resolution of the Village Planning Commission carried by the affirmative vote
of not less than six members of the Village Planning Commission. The resolution
shall refer expressly to the maps and descriptive and other matter intended by
the Village Planning Commission to form the whole or part of the plan, and the
action taken shall be recorded on the map and plan and descriptive matter by
the identifying signature of the Chairperson and/or Secretary of the Village
Planning Commission. An attested copy of the plan or part thereof shall be
certified to the Village Council and to the County Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 182.07)
CHAPTER 34: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Development plan adopted
   
34.03   Considerations
   
34.04   Public purpose
Financing
   
34.15   Base year assessment confirmation
   
34.16   Annual base year assessment roll
   
34.17   Establishment, approval of Project Fund depository
   
34.18   Taxes deposited into Project Fund
   
34.19   Annual Project Fund report
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1681, as
amended.
   BASE YEAR ASSESSMENT ROLE. The base year assessment roll prepared by the
Assessor in accordance with §§
34.15 and
34.16.
   CAPTURED ASSESSED VALUE. The amount in any one year by which the current
assessed value as finally equalized of all taxable property in the Development
Area exceeds the initial assessed value.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA. The Development Area as described in §§
33.01 through
33.08.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The development and tax increment financing plan prepared
by the Authority and included in the plan approved by the Village Council on 9-
20-1993.
   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, DDA, and AUTHORITY. The Village Downtown
Development Authority.
   INITIAL ASSESSED VALUE. The most recently assessed value as finally
equalized of all the taxable property within the boundaries of the Development
Area at the time of the adoption of this code.
   TAXING JURISDICTION. Each unit of government levying an ad valorem property
tax on property in the Development Area.
(Prior Code, § 440.01)
§ 34.02 DEVELOPMENT PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Development Plan, as amended by the Village Council, is hereby approved
and adopted. A copy of the Development Plan and all amendments thereto shall be
maintained on file in the Village Clerk's office.
(Prior Code, § 440.02)
§ 34.03 CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. As required by M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1681, the
Village Council has, in reviewing the Development Plan, taken into account the
following considerations.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The Plan meets the requirements set forth in M.C.L.A. § 125.1667
(2).
      (2)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and
the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
      (3)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1681.
      (4)   The land included within the Development Area to be acquired, if
any, is reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the Plan and of
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1681 in an efficient and economically
satisfactory manner.
      (5)   The Development Plan is in reasonable accord with the Master Plan
of the village.
      (6)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities,
are or will be adequate to service the Development Area.
      (7)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections, and
utilities, to the extent required by the Plan, are reasonably necessary for the
projects described therein and for the village.
(Prior Code, § 440.03)
§ 34.04 PUBLIC PURPOSE.
   The Village Council hereby determines that the Development Plan constitutes
a public purpose, and hereby determines that it is in the best interests of the
public, in order to halt property value deterioration in the business district,
to eliminate the causes of that deterioration, and to promote economic growth,
to adopt the Development Plan.
(Prior Code, § 440.04)
FINANCING
§ 34.15 BASE YEAR ASSESSMENT CONFIRMATION.
   The base year assessment roll shall be prepared, confirmed, and transmitted
in accordance with M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1681.
(Prior Code, § 440.05)
§ 34.16 ANNUAL BASE YEAR ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Each year, within 15 days following the final equalization of property in
the Development Area, an updated base year assessment roll showing the
information required in the initial base year assessment roll and, in addition,
the captured assessed value for that year shall be prepared in accord with
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1681 and the Development Plan.
(Prior Code, § 440.06)
§ 34.17 ESTABLISHMENT, APPROVAL OF PROJECT FUND DEPOSITORY.
   The Treasurer of the Authority shall establish a separate fund, to be known
as the Project Fund, which shall be kept in a depository bank account or
accounts in a bank or banks approved by the Board of the Authority. All moneys
received by the Authority shall be deposited in the Project Fund. All moneys in
the Project Fund and earnings thereon shall be used only in accordance with the
Plan.
(Prior Code, § 440.07)
§ 34.18 TAXES DEPOSITED INTO PROJECT FUND.
   The Village Treasurer, Township Treasurer, and the County Treasurer shall,
as ad valorem taxes are collected on the property in the Development Area, pay
that portion of the taxes, except for penalties and collection fees, that the
captured assessed value bears to the initial assessed value, to the Treasurer
of the Authority for that deposit into the Project Fund. The payments shall be
made on the date or dates on which the Village Treasurer, Township Treasurer,
and the County Treasurer are required to remit taxes to each of the taxing
jurisdictions.
(Prior Code, § 440.08)
§ 34.19 ANNUAL PROJECT FUND REPORT.
   Within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year, the Authority shall submit
to the Village Council, with copies to each taxing jurisdiction, a report on
the status of the Project Fund. The report shall include the amount and source
of revenue in the account, the amount and purposes of expenditures from the
account, the amount of principal of and interest on any outstanding
indebtedness, the amount in any bond reserve account, the initial assessed
value of the Development Area and the amount of captured assessed value
retained by the Authority, the tax increments received and the amounts of any
surplus from the prior year, and any additional information requested by the
Village Council or deemed appropriate by the Authority. The Secretary of the
Authority shall cause a copy of the report to be published once in full in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village.
(Prior Code, § 440.09)
CHAPTER 35: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   General power
   
35.02   General procedure
   
35.03   Cost estimates
   
35.04   Cost defined
Assessment Procedure
   
35.20   Special assessment roll resolution
   
35.21   Assessor's duties
   
35.22   Special assessment roll certification
   
35.23   Public hearing on necessity
   
35.24   Deficiency assessment roll
   
35.25   Public hearing on deficiency assessment roll
   
35.26   Review of special assessments
   
35.27   Necessity determination
   
35.28   Confirmation of deficiency assessment roll
Post Assessment
   
35.40   Incontestable after 30 days
   
35.41   Installment payments
   
35.42   Land division apportionment
   
35.43   Report to Assessor
   
35.44   Direct collection
   
35.45   Delinquent assessments
   
35.46   Delay to contest validity
   
35.47   Excess assessments
   
35.48   Intent to issue bonds
Cross-reference:
   Downtown Development Plan, see
Ch. 34
   Village Policies, see
Ch. 36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 GENERAL POWER.
   The Village Council shall have the power to assess and reassess the cost, or
any portion thereof, of any public improvement to a special district as
provided in Chapter 8 of the Village Charter, in accordance with the procedures
established by the Charter and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 442.01)
§ 35.02 GENERAL PROCEDURE.
   The Village Council shall determine to make any public improvement and
defray the whole and/or any part of the costs and expense thereof by special
assessment, they shall so declare by resolution, stating the improvement, and
what part or proportion of the expenses thereof shall be paid by special
assessments, and what part, if any, from the general funds of the village and
shall designate the district or land and premises upon which the special
assessment shall be levied. The Council may, in its discretion, divide any
improvement into parts or sections and provide for the separate construction or
the part or sections, and may establish a special assessment district for each
part or section, and may issue bonds against the separate districts.
(Prior Code, § 442.02)
§ 35.03 COST ESTIMATES.
   Before ordering any public improvement, when part or all of the expense is
to be defrayed by special assessment, the Village Council shall cause plans and
cost estimates to be made by the adoption of Standard Resolution No.1, which
shall be in the following form:
"WHEREAS, the Village Council deems it necessary and proposes to make the
following described public improvement:
AND WHEREAS, it appears that all or part of the cost of said public improvement
shall be defrayed by special assessment.
NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved that:
1)   The matter of said public improvement is referred to the Village Manager
who shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans showing the improvement and
the location thereof, an estimate of the cost thereof, and also maps and plans
of the work.
2)   Upon completion of the same, the same shall be presented to the Village
Council."
(Prior Code, § 442.03)
§ 35.04 COST DEFINED.
   Cost and expenses of any improvement which may be defrayed by special
assessment shall include the cost of surveys, maps, plans, all expenses
incident to the special assessment proceedings, the cost of acquiring any lands
and rights-of-way necessary therefor, cost of construction, and all other costs
incurred in making the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 442.04)
ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
§ 35.20 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL RESOLUTION.
   When any special assessment is to be made pro rata upon the lots and
premises in any special district according to benefits, the Village Council
shall direct the same to be made by the Village Assessor by the adoption of
Standard Resolution No.2, which shall be made in the following form:
"WHEREAS, the Village Council has ordered the Village Manager to prepare or
cause to be prepared plans showing the improvement and location thereof and an
estimate of the cost thereof, and also master plans of the work of the
following described public improvement:
AND WHEREAS, the Village Manager has prepared the same and has presented the
same to the Village Council.
NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved that:
1)   Plans and estimate of the cost of said public improvement in the amount of
$____ and other materials pertaining to said public improvement prepared by the
Village Manager are hereby adopted and approved.
2)   The Village Council hereby determines to proceed regarding making the
public improvement described in the preamble hereto.
3)   The Village Council determines that $____ of the cost of said public
improvement, if ordered to be made, shall be defrayed by special assessment to
be levied against each and every lot and parcel of land in the assessment
district hereinafter set forth.
4)   The Village Council hereby determines that the following described lots
and parcels of land constitute the special assessment district against which
the special assessment for said public improvement, if ordered to be made,
shall be levied:
5)   The Village Assessor is hereby ordered and directed to prepare a Special
Assessment Roll and shall assess against the lots and parcels of land in the
special assessment district, as herein established, that portion of the cost of
said public improvement to be paid from special assessments as herein
determined. The Village Assessor, in preparing said Special Assessment Roll,
shall assess the amount to be assessed against the Special Assessment district
according to the benefit. In preparing said Special Assessment Roll the Village
Assessor shall follow the procedures and requirements established by the
provisions in this chapter as amended.
6)   The Village Assessor, when he/she shall have completed said Special
Assessment Roll, shall report the same with his/her certificate attached
thereto to the Village Council."
(Prior Code, § 442.05)
§ 35.21 ASSESSOR'S DUTIES.
   (A)   Upon receiving the orders and direction, the Village Assessor shall
make out an assessment roll, entering and describing therein all the lots,
premises, and parcels of land to be assessed, with the name of the person(s),
if known, chargeable with the assessments thereon; and shall levy thereon and
against the property the amounts to be assessed in the manner directed by the
Village Council and provisions of this chapter applicable to the assessment. In
all cases where the ownership of any description is unknown to the Village
Assessor, he or she shall, in lieu of the name of the owner(s), insert the word
"unknown" and if by mistake, or otherwise, any person(s) shall be improperly
designated as the owner(s) of any lot or parcel of land or premises, or if the
same shall be assessed without the name of the owner(s) or the name of any
person(s) other than the owner(s), the assessment shall not for any cause be
vitiated, but shall in all respects be as valid upon and against the lot,
parcel of land or premises as though assessed in the name of the property owner
(s), and when the assessment has been confirmed, it shall be a lien on the lot,
parcel of land, or premises and collected as provided by Charter and this
chapter.
   (B)   If the assessment is required to be according to frontage, the Village
Assessor shall assess to each lot or parcel of land the relative portion of the
whole amount to be levied as the length or front of the premises abutting upon
the improvement bears to the whole frontage of all lots to be assessed, unless
on the account of the shape or size of any lot an assessment for a different
number of feet would be more equitable. If the assessment is directed to be
according to some other benefit, then he or she shall assess upon each lot the
relative proportion of the whole sum to be levied as shall be proportionate to
the estimated benefit resulting to the lot from the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 442.06)
§ 35.22 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL CERTIFICATION.
   When the Village Assessor shall report the same to the Village Council, the
report shall be signed by the Village Assessor and may be in the form of a
certificate endorsed on the assessment roll as follows:
"State of Michigan   )
               )   ss.
Village of Homer      )
To the Council of the Village of Homer:
I hereby certify and report that the foregoing is a special assessment made by
me pursuant to a resolution of the Council of said Village adopted (give date)
for the purpose of paying that part of the cost which the Village Council
decided should be borne and paid by special assessment for the (object of the
assessment); that in making such assessment I have as near as may be, according
to my best judgment, conformed in all things to the directions contained in the
resolution of the Village Council herein before referred to, and the Charter of
the Village relating to such assessment.
______________      ____
Village Assessor      Date"
(Prior Code, § 442.07)
§ 35.23 PUBLIC HEARING ON NECESSITY.
   (A)   Before ordering any public improvement, when any part of the expense
is to be defrayed by special assessment, and before confirming the assessment
roll, the Village Council shall set a date for the review of the necessity for
the proposed improvement and assessment and shall cause a notice to be given to
each owner of an interest in the property to be assessed, whose name(s) appear
upon the last local tax assessment records, by first-class mail addressed to
the owner(s) at the address shown on the tax records, at least ten days before
the date of the hearing, and shall cause a notice to be published once, not
less than ten days prior to the date set for the review, in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village. Any person objecting to the proposed
improvement and the assessment against lands owned by him or her may file
objections thereto, in writing, with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Notice of public hearing shall be issued after the Village Council
adopts Standard Resolution No.3, which shall be in the following form:
"WHEREAS, the Village Council has ordered the Assessor to prepare a Special
Assessment Roll for the purpose of defraying the special assessment district's
share of the cost of the following described public improvement:
AND WHEREAS, the Assessor has prepared said Special Assessment Roll and has
reported the same to the Village Council with his/her certificate attached
thereto.
NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved that:
1)   Said Special Assessment Roll shall be filed in the Office of the Village
Clerk.
2)   The Village Council and the Village Assessor shall meet at the Village
Municipal Building on ________, 20__, at ____ o'clock P.M. for the purpose of
hearing any person objecting to the necessity for improvement and the
assessment against lands owned by such person.
3)   The Village Clerk is hereby ordered to cause notice of the hearing of
necessity and to review the Special Assessment Roll to be published in the
newspaper of general circulation in the Village at least once, not less than
ten (10) full days prior to the date set for the hearing of necessity and for
reviewing said Special Assessment Roll, and shall cause a notice to be given to
each owner of an interest in property to be assessed whose name appears upon
the last local tax assessment records by first class mail to such owner at the
address shown on the tax records, at least ten (10) days before such hearing.
4)   The notice of the hearing of necessity and review of the Special
Assessment Roll shall be in substantially the following form:
MEETING TO REVIEW THE NECESSITY FOR ________ AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL NUMBER
__ AND TO HEAR OBJECTIONS TO THE NECESSITY OF THE PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT AND SAID
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS ASSESSED AGAINST SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT NUMBER __ THE
VILLAGE OF HOMER, MICHIGAN:
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the Village Council will meet at the Village Municipal
Building on the ____ day of ________ , 20__ at __ o'clock P.M. for the purpose
of reviewing the necessity for ________ and said Special Assessment Roll Number
__ and of hearing any and all objections to the necessity of the public
improvement and said special assessments made in the matter of construction of
the following described improvement:
The Assessment Roll is on file in the Office of the Village Clerk for public
examination. The special assessments therein contained have been assessed
according to the law against the parcels of land constituting Special
Assessment District Number __ which district is described as follows:
The above assessment and all proceedings upon which they are based shall not be
contestable, unless suit to contest the validity thereof is instituted within
thirty (30) days after the date of confirmation of said Special Assessment Roll
Number __."
(Prior Code, § 442.08)
§ 35.24 DEFICIENCY ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Upon receiving information that any special assessment is insufficient to
pay for the improvement for which it was levied, the Council shall direct the
Village Assessor to prepare a deficiency special assessment roll and certify
it, using the same procedures as outlined in §§
35.21 and
35.22.
(Prior Code, § 442.09)
§ 35.25 PUBLIC HEARING ON DEFICIENCY ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   Before confirming the deficiency special assessment roll, the Council
shall set a date for the review of the assessment and shall cause a notice to
be given to each owner of an interest in the property to be assessed, whose
name(s) appear upon the last local tax assessment records, by first-class mail
addressed to the owner(s) at the address shown on the tax records at least ten
days before the date of the hearing and shall cause a notice to be published
once not less than ten days prior to the date set for the review in a newspaper
of general circulation in the village. Any person objecting to the deficiency
assessment against lands owned by him or her may file objections thereto, in
writing, with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   In the case of a deficiency roll, Standard Resolution No. 3A shall be
adopted and shall be in the following form:
"WHEREAS, the Village Council has ordered the Village Assessor to prepare a
Special Assessment Roll for the purpose of defraying the Special Assessment
District's share of the cost of the following described public improvement:
Construction of ____________ in the following district and streets, to-wit:
AND WHEREAS, the Village Assessor has prepared Special Assessment Roll and has
reported the same to the Village Council with his/her certificate attached
thereto;
AND WHEREAS, all other required special assessment procedures have been carried
out;
AND WHEREAS, improvements have been completed in said District Number __;
AND WHEREAS, the cost of improvements constructed in said District Number __
has exceeded the original cost estimate of the work by ________ leaving a
deficiency in the special assessment construction funds set up for the
district;
AND WHEREAS, the Village Assessor has prepared a deficiency Special Assessment
Roll to cover the additional costs in said District Number __ and the Village
Assessor has reported the same to the Village Council with his/her certificate
attached hereto;
NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved that:
1)   Said Deficiency Special Assessment Roll shall be filed in the Office of
the Village Clerk.
2)   The Village Assessor and the Village Council shall meet at the Village
Municipal Building on ____ at __:__ o'clock P.M. for the purpose of hearing any
person objecting to the deficiency assessment against lands owned by such
person.
3)   The Village Clerk is hereby ordered to cause notice of the hearing to
review the Deficiency Special Assessment Roll to be published in the newspaper
of general circulation in the Village at least once, not less than ten (10)
full days prior to the date set for reviewing said Deficiency Special
Assessment Roll, and shall cause a notice to be given to each owner of an
interest in property to be assessed whose name appears upon the last local tax
assessment records by first class mail to such owner at the address shown on
the tax records, at least ten (10) days before such hearing.
4)   The notice of the hearing to review the Deficiency Special Assessment Roll
shall be in substantially the following form:
MEETING TO REVIEW DEFICIENCY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL NUMBER __ AND TO HEAR
OBJECTIONS TO THE DEFICIENCY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ASSESSED AGAINST SPECIAL
ASSESSMENT DISTRICT NUMBER __ IN THE VILLAGE OF HOMER, MICHIGAN.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the Village Council will meet in the Village Municipal
Building on ____, 20__ at __ o'clock P.M. for the purpose of reviewing said
Deficiency Special Assessment Roll No. __ and of hearing any and all objection
to the Deficiency Special Assessment as assessed in said roll No. __ made in
the matter of constructing the following described improvement:
District No. __ Street: ____ From: ____ To: ____
The assessment roll is on file in the office of the Village Clerk for public
examination. The Deficiency Special Assessments herein contained have been
assessed according to law against all the parcels of land constituting the
Special Assessment District No. __ which district is described as follows:
The above assessment and all proceedings upon which they are based shall not be
contestable, unless suit to contest the validity thereof is instituted within
thirty (30) days after the date of confirmation of said Deficiency Special
Assessment Roll No. __."
(Prior Code, § 442.10)
§ 35.26 REVIEW OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   At the time and place appointed for the purpose aforesaid, the Village
Council and Village Assessor shall meet and there or at some adjourned meeting
review the assessments and hear any objections to any assessment which may be
made by any person deeming himself or herself aggrieved thereby; and the
Village Council shall correct the same if necessary, and confirm it as reported
or as corrected; or they may refer the assessment back to the Village Assessor
for revision, or annul it and direct a new assessment, in which case the same
proceedings shall be had as in respect to the previous assessment. When a
special assessment shall be confirmed, the Village Clerk shall make an
endorsement showing the date of confirmation.
(Prior Code, § 442.11)
§ 35.27 NECESSITY DETERMINATION.
   When any special assessment roll shall be confirmed by the Village Council,
it shall be final and conclusive. The Village Council shall confirm a roll by
the adoption of Standard Resolution No.4, which shall be in the following form:
"WHEREAS, the Village Council is satisfied that the following described public
improvement is necessary:
AND WHEREAS, the Village Council has caused Special Assessment Roll No. __ to
be prepared for the purpose of defraying the Special Assessment District's
portion of the following described public improvement in the Village of Homer:
AND WHEREAS, the Village Council and the Village Assessor have met after due
legal notice and have reviewed the Special Assessment Roll and have heard all
persons interested in said Special Assessment Roll appearing at said hearing;
AND WHEREAS, the Village Council is satisfied with said Special Assessment Roll
as prepared by the Village Assessor;
NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved that:
1)   The public improvement described above shall be made.
2)   Said Special Assessment Roll No. __ in the amount of $____ is hereby
confirmed as prepared by the Village Assessor.
3)   Said Special Assessment Roll shall be divided into ____ annual
installments, the first installment to be due and payable on ______ and the
subsequent _____ installments to be due and payable on of each and every year
thereafter, until the entire amount is paid in full.
4)   The installments of said Special Assessment Roll shall bear interest at
the rate of six (6) percent per annum; provided, however, in the event bonds
are issued in anticipation of collection of said special assessment, interest
on said Special Assessment Rolls shall be at a rate of interest which is not
greater than one (1) percent in excess of the rate of interest borne by said
bonds; said interest to be payable on the due date of each installment of said
Special Assessment Roll and said interest to commence on the due date of the
first installment."
(Prior Code, § 442.12)
§ 35.28 CONFIRMATION OF DEFICIENCY ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   In the case of a deficiency special assessment roll being confirmed by the
Village Council, Standard Resolution No.4A shall be adopted and shall be in the
following form:
"WHEREAS, the Village Council has caused Deficiency Special Assessment Roll No.
__ to be prepared for the purpose of defraying Special Assessment District's
portion of the following described public improvement in the Village of Homer:
AND WHEREAS, the Village Council and Village Assessor have met after due legal
notice and have reviewed said Deficiency Special Assessment Roll and have heard
all persons interested in said Deficiency Special Assessment Roll appearing at
said hearing;
AND WHEREAS, the Village Council is satisfied with said Deficiency Special
Assessment Roll as prepared by the Village Assessor;
NOW, THEREFORE be it resolved that;
1)   Said Deficiency Special Assessment Roll No. __ in the amount of $____ is
hereby confirmed as prepared by the Village Assessor.
2)    Said Special Assessment Roll shall be divided into ____ annual
installments, the first installment to be due and payable on ______ and
subsequent installments to be due and payable on _______ of each and every year
thereafter, until the entire amount is paid in full.
3)   The installments of said Deficiency Special Assessment Roll shall bear
interest at a rate of six (6) percent per annum, said interest to be payable on
the due date of each installment of said Deficiency Special Assessment Roll and
said interest to commence on the due date of the first installment."
(Prior Code, § 442.13)
Cross-reference:
   Deficiency assessment roll, see §
35.24
   General procedure, see §
35.02
   Review of special assessments, see §
35.26
POST ASSESSMENT
§ 35.40 INCONTESTABLE AFTER 30 DAYS.
   The special assessments, and all proceedings upon which the special
assessments are based, shall be incontestable unless a suit to contest the
validity thereof is instituted within 30 days after the date of confirmation of
the special assessment roll.
(Prior Code, § 442.14)
§ 35.41 INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   At the same meeting at which the special assessment roll is confirmed by the
Village Council, Council shall by resolution determine the number of annual
installments, if any, into which all assessments levied in the roll shall be
divided for collection, not exceeding 20 in number, at the time of the year as
the Council shall determine with the annual interest at a rate of 6% per annum,
unless bonds are issued in anticipation of collection of the special
assessment, and, in that case, the rate of interest shall be no greater than 1%
in excess of the rate of interest borne by the bonds, as set by resolution of
the Council. In either event, no interest shall be charged until 30 days after
confirmation, and no individual principal payment, except the last installment,
may be for less than $20. The balance or any additional portion of the
assessment may be paid to the Village Treasurer at any time after confirmation
of accrued interest thereon.
(Prior Code, § 442.15)
§ 35.42 LAND DIVISION APPORTIONMENT.
   Should any lots or land be divided after a special assessment thereon has
been confirmed and divided into installments, and before the collection of all
installments, the Village Council may require the Village Assessor to apportion
the uncollected amounts on the several parts of lots and lands so divided. The
report of the apportionment, when confirmed, shall be conclusive upon all the
parties and all assessments thereafter made upon the lots or lands shall be
according to the division.
(Prior Code, § 442.16)
§ 35.43 REPORT TO ASSESSOR.
   Whenever any special assessment shall be confirmed and be payable, the
Village Council may direct the Village Clerk to report to the Village Assessor
a description of the lots and premises as are contained in the roll with the
amount of the assessment levied upon each and the name of the owner or occupant
against whom the assessment was made, and direct the Village Assessor to levy
the several sums so assessed respectively. The Village Assessor shall levy the
sums therein mentioned upon the respective lots and premises to which they are
specially assessed and against the persons chargeable therewith as a tax in the
general tax roll next thereafter to be made, in a column for special
assessments, and thereupon, the amounts levied in the tax roll shall be
enforced and collected with the other taxes in the tax roll, and in the same
manner; and shall continue to be a lien upon the premises assessed until paid,
and when collected, shall be paid into the village treasury.
(Prior Code, § 442.17)
§ 35.44 DIRECT COLLECTION.
   (A)   Collection from assessment roll. Whenever any special assessment roll
shall be confirmed, the Council, instead of requiring the assessments therein
to be reported to the Village Assessor as provided in §
35.42, may direct the assessments to be collected directly from the special
assessment roll, together with any interest that may become due thereon; and
thereupon, the Village Clerk shall attach his or her warrant to the special
assessment roll, commanding the Village Treasurer to collect the amount
assessed against each lot, premises, or parcels of land described in the roll,
together with any interest which may become due thereon, at the time and in the
manner as prescribed by the law and by resolution of the Village Council. The
warrant shall require the Village Treasurer, on April 1 following the date that
the assessments or any installments thereof have become due, to submit to the
Village Council a sworn statement setting forth the description of the lots,
premises, and parcels of land, and the amount of accrued interest computed to
April 1 of the year.
(Prior Code, § 442.18)
   (B)   Collection by Treasurer. Upon receiving the special assessment roll
and warrant, the Village Treasurer shall proceed to collect the amount assessed
therein.
(Prior Code, § 442.19)
§ 35.45 DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall report delinquent assessments and installments
thereof as required in the warrant to the Village Clerk. The Village Council
shall then certify the same to the Village Assessor, who shall reassess the
same on the next annual village tax roll in a column headed "Special
Assessment," with interest to April 1 of the year, and an additional penalty in
the amount as allowed by law, and the total amount, when so reassessed on the
tax roll, shall be collected in all respects as provided for the collection of
village taxes. Unpaid special assessments reassessed upon the village tax roll
shall be returned to the County Treasurer for collection at the same time and
in the same manner as village taxes.
(Prior Code, § 442.20)
§ 35.46 DELAY TO CONTEST VALIDITY.
   Should any of the proceedings authorized to be taken under the provisions of
this chapter be delayed by reason of any suit or action to contest the validity
thereof, then the proceedings shall be taken as soon as the delay has ended.
(Prior Code, § 442.21)
§ 35.47 EXCESS ASSESSMENTS.
   Should a larger amount have been collected through the special assessment
process than was necessary to pay the cost of the public improvement, the
excess shall be refunded on a pro rata basis to those by whom it was paid,
provided that, when the excess is less than 5% of the total amount of the
special assessment roll, the excess may be placed in the General Fund of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 442.22)
§ 35.48 INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS.
   When the Village Council intends to issue bonds, it shall adopt a standard
resolution and notice of intent which shall be in the following form:
"WHEREAS, the Council of the Village of Homer, County of Calhoun, Michigan,
intends to authorize the issuance and sale of said Special Assessment Bonds in
the amount of $____ in anticipation of special assessments to be levied for the
purpose of defraying the special assessment district’s share of the following
described public improvement:
AND WHEREAS, M.C.L.A. § 117.5(g), as amended, requires that notice of intent to
issue bonds be published at least thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of any
resolution authorizing the issuance and sale of bonds;
NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved that the Village Clerk of the Village of Homer
is hereby directed to cause notice of intent to issue bonds to be published in
a newspaper of general circulation in the Village of Homer, within ten (10)
days from the date of adoption of this resolution, said notice to be in
substantially the following form:
NOTICE OF INTENT TO ISSUE BONDS BY THE VILLAGE OF HOMER, COUNTY OF CALHOUN,
MICHIGAN.
Take notice that the Council of the Village of Homer, County of Calhoun,
Michigan, intends to adopt a resolution authorizing the issuance and sale of
the following described bonds: Special Assessment Bonds $____.
Said bonds are to be issued for the purpose of defraying the special assessment
district’s portion of the following described public improvement:
Said Special Assessment bonds shall be payable through special assessments and
shall also be a general obligation of the Village of Homer.
This notice is given pursuant to Section 5(g) of Act 279, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1909, as amended."
(Prior Code, § 442.23)
CHAPTER 36: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Emergency response expense liability
   
36.04   Police and fire emergency response cost recovery
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enable the village to require
reimbursement from those responsible (both intentionally or accidentally) for
the leaking, spilling, or otherwise allowing of certain dangerous or hazardous
substances or materials to escape containment, thereby requiring cleanup and
disposal by the village or its agents.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS or HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES or MATERIALS. Any substance which is
spilled, leaked, or otherwise released from its container, which in the
determination of the ranking fire, police, emergency management, or Building
Department official, or other duly authorized personnel or official in charge
of the scene, is dangerous or harmful to the environment or human or animal
life, health, safety, or welfare, and shall include, but is not limited to,
substances such as chemicals and gases, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiologic (biologic) agents,
flammables, and corrosives.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing, sending, and/or utilizing of public
service, police, firefighting, rescue service, or any other agent of the
village, at or to an incident involving the leakage, spillage, or any other
dissemination of dangerous or hazardous substances or materials.
   EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The direct and reasonable costs incurred
by the village, or by a private person, corporation, or other entity operating
at the request of or direction of the village, when making an emergency
response to the incident, including the costs of providing police,
firefighting, and rescue service at the scene of the incident. These costs
further include, but are not limited to: all of the salaries, wages, worker's
compensation benefits, and fringe benefits of the village personnel responding
to the incident; all salaries, wages, worker’s compensation benefits, and
fringe benefits of the village personnel engaged in investigation, supervision,
and report preparation; all costs connected with the administration and
provision of chemical tests; all costs related to any prosecution of the person
or entity causing the incident; cost of the equipment operation; cost of
materials obtained directly by the village; and cost of any contract labor or
materials.
(Prior Code, § 600.02)
§ 36.03 EMERGENCY RESPONSE EXPENSE LIABILITY.
   (A)   Duty to clean up. It shall be the duty of any person or entity which
causes or controls leakage, spillage, or any other dissemination of dangerous
or hazardous substances or materials to immediately notify the village of the
spillage and to immediately remove same and clean up the area of the spillage
in the manner that the area involved is fully restored to its condition before
the happening. The Fire Department will inspect the site to make sure the
cleanup is in compliance with local, state, and federal guidelines.
   (B)   Failure to remove and clean up. Any person or entity failing to comply
with division (A) above shall be liable to and shall pay the village for
damages in the amount of its costs and expenses, as defined in §
36.02.
   (C)   Failure to pay; procedure to recover costs. Any failure, by the person
described in this chapter as liable for the expenses of an emergency response,
to pay the bill within 30 days of service shall be considered a default. In
case of default, the village may commence a civil suit to recover the expenses
and any costs allowed by law, including, but not limited to, the assessing of
costs against any real estate the person may own within the village in the
manner provided for in the Village Charter, or through an agent of the village.
(Prior Code, § 600.03)
§ 36.04 POLICE AND FIRE EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
   (A)   Purpose. In order to protect the village from extraordinary expenses
resulting from the utilization of village resources in response to certain
police or fire emergency incidents, this section authorizes the imposition of
charges to recover actual costs incurred by the village in responding to such
incidents.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
meaning of the terms used in this section shall be as follows:
      ASSESSABLE COSTS. Those costs for services incurred by the village in
connection with a response to a public safety or fire emergency incident,
including but not limited to, the actual labor and material costs of the
village (including, without limitation, employee wages, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, costs of equipment, costs of equipment operation,
costs of materials, costs of  transportation, costs of material disposal and
costs of contracted labor), whether or not the services are provided by the
village or by a third party on behalf of the village; service charges and
interest; attorneys’ fees, litigation costs and any costs charges, fines or
penalties to the city imposed by any court or state or federal government
entities.
      BOMB THREAT. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device that, if discharged as threatened, would violate a federal, state or
local law.
      EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Emergency medical, police, fire and civil defense
services.
      EXCESSIVE REQUEST FOR EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Any request for emergency
assistance made to a particular location or premises, if such location or
premises has requested emergency assistance more than five times in the
preceding 30 days.
      FALSE ALARM. Any automated or manual device designed to request or summon
emergency assistance, which device is activated intentionally or otherwise, in
the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The determination that
there was no actual need for emergency assistance shall be made by the most
senior person responding to a false alarm. Provided, however, a FALSE ALARM
shall not be deemed to have occurred if it :
         (a)   Was caused by an act of God, i.e., a lightning storm;
         (b)   Originates from a motor vehicle alarm system; or
         (c)   Has not occurred more frequently than three times in a calendar
month or four times in a calendar year.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY.  Any occurrence, incident,
activity, accident or emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs
or is reasonably imminent, and where the Fire Chief, or his or her designee,
has so declared such activity, accident or emergency a HAZARDOUS MATERIAL
INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Those elements, substances, wastes or byproducts,
including but not limited to, combustible liquid, flammable gas, explosives,
flammable poisons, organic peroxides, oxidizers, pyrophorics, unstable reactive
matter, water-reactive matter, petroleum products, anti-freeze, polychlorinated
biphenyls and asbestos, which are or are potentially harmful to the environment
or human or animal life, or which pose an unreasonable or imminent risk to
life, health or safety of persons or property, or to the ecological balance of
the environment, as determined by the Fire Chief or the senior fire official of
the city in charge at the scene.
      ILLEGAL FIRE. A fire set or determined to have been set in a violation of
a federal, state or local law, and shall include an arson fire and a fire set
in violation of a no burning ban or order. An ILLEGAL FIRE does not include an
unintentional fire or fire caused by an act of God, i.e., a lightning storm.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled or towed vehicle designed or used on
the public streets, roads and highways to transport passengers or property,
which is required to be registered for use upon such public streets, roads and
highways and, for the purposes hereof, all trailers or appurtenances attached
to any motor vehicle.
      POLICE OR FIRE EMERGENCY INCIDENT. 
         (a)   An excessive request for emergency assistance;
         (b)   A false alarm;
         (c)   A hazardous material incident or emergency;
         (d)   An illegal fire;
         (e)   A bomb threat;
         (f)   A threat of harm to oneself or others;
         (g)   A structure demolition; or
         (h)   A utility line failure.
      RELEASE. Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injection, leaching, dumping or disposing into
the environment, including but not limited to, the air, soil, groundwater and
surface water.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or
any other legal entity responsible for a police or fire emergency incident, or
any owner, tenant, occupant or party in control of real and personal property
from which, onto which, or related to which there is a police or fire emergency
incident, and their heirs, estates, successors and assigns.
      STRUCTURE DEMOLITION. The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire
that must, in the opinion of the Fire Chief or his or her designee, be promptly
demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
      THREAT OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS. The verbal or written threat of
physical harm to oneself or another or another’s property that, if carried out,
would violate of federal, state or local law.
      UTILITY LINE FAILURE. The disabling of any transmission or service line,
cable, conduit, pipeline, wire or the like used to provide, collect or
transport electricity, natural gas, communication or electronic signals
(including, but not limited to, telephone, computer, cable television and
stereo signals or electronic impulses), water or sanitary or storm sewage, if
the owner or party responsible for the maintenance of such utility line does
not respond within one hour to a request to repair or correct such failure.
   (C)   Cost recovery authorization and procedure.
      (1)   The village may recover all assessable costs in connection with a
police or fire emergency incident from any or all responsible parties, jointly
and severally.
      (2)   The Village Manager, or his or her designee, shall determine the
total assessable costs and shall consult with the other village personnel
involved in responding to a police or fire emergency incident to determine
whether to assess any, all or part of such costs against any of the responsible
parties. In making such determination, the following shall be considered:
         (a)   The total assessable costs;
         (b)   The risk the police or fire emergency incident imposed on the
village, its residents and their property;
         (c)   Whether there was any injury or damage to person or property;
         (d)   Whether the police or fire emergency incident required
evacuation;
         (e)   The extent the police or fire emergency incident required an
unusual or extraordinary use of the village personnel and equipment; and
         (f)   Whether there was any damage to the environment.
      (3)   After consideration of the factors in division (C)(2) immediately
above, the Village Manager may allocate assessable costs among and between
responsible parties, including allocating all or some of such costs jointly and
severally against more than one responsible party, regardless of whether the
responsible party has other legal liability therefor or is legally at fault.
      (4)   If the Village Manager determines not to assess all or a part of
the assessable costs against a responsible party, such determination shall not
in any way limit or extinguish the liability of the responsible party to other
parties.
   (D)   Billing and collection of assessable costs.
      (1)   After determining to assess assessable costs against the
responsible party, the Village Treasurer shall mail an itemized invoice to the
responsible party at its last known address.
      (2)   The invoice shall be due and payable within 30 days of the date of
mailing, and any amounts unpaid after such date shall bear the late payment fee
equal to 1% per month or fraction thereof that the amount and any previously
imposed late payment fee remains unpaid.
      (3)   If a responsible party shall appeal assessable costs pursuant to
division (E), such costs, if upheld, in whole or part, shall be due and payable
30 days from the date of determination of the appeal, and any late payment fees
shall apply thereafter.
   (E)   Procedure for appealing assessable costs.
      (1)   Any responsible party who receives an invoice for assessable costs
shall have an opportunity to meet with the Village Manager, or his or her
designee, to request a modification of assessable costs.
      (2)   The responsible party shall request in writing such meeting within
seven calendar days of the date of the invoice assessing the assessable costs.
      (3)   If, after meeting with the Village Manager or his or her designee,
the responsible party is still not satisfied, he or she may request an
opportunity to appear before the Village Council to further request a
modification of assessable costs. A responsible party who desires to appear
before the Village Council:
         (a)   Must first meet with the Village Manager or his or her designee
as provided above; and
         (b)   Shall file a written request to appear before the Village
Council with the Village Clerk within seven calendar days of the date of the
meeting with the Village Manager.
      (4)   Upon receipt of such request, the Village Clerk will place the
responsible party on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled Village Council
meeting, which meeting is at least 14 calendar days after the date on which the
responsible party files the request to appear.
         (a)   Any filed request to appear shall specifically identify and
explain all reasons why the responsible party believes the assessed costs
should be modified.
         (b)   Any reasons, basis or argument for modification of assessable
costs not set forth in the request to appear shall be deemed waived by the
responsible party.
         (c)   Failure to timely file a written request to appear shall
constitute a waiver of the responsible party’s right to appear before the
Village Council, and shall further constitute the responsible party’s agreement
to pay the assessable costs invoiced.
      (5)   After a responsible party has been given an opportunity to appear
before the Village Council, the Village Manager shall promptly determine
whether to confirm, modify or void the payment of assessable costs invoiced.
   (F)   Assessable costs a lien upon property.
      (1)   Assessable costs assessed against a responsible party not paid when
due, including late payment fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real
property of the responsible party in the village, from which, upon which or
related to which the police or fire emergency incident occurred.
      (2)   The lien shall be of the same character and effect as the lien
created by the Village Charter for city real property taxes, and shall include
accrued interest and penalties.
      (3)   Prior to March 1 of each year, the Village Treasurer shall certify
to the Village Assessor the fact that such assessable costs are delinquent and
unpaid.
      (4)   The Village Assessor shall then enter the delinquent amount on the
next general ad valorem tax roll as a charge against the affected property, and
the lien thereon shall be enforced in the same manner as provided and allowed
by law for delinquent and unpaid real property taxes.
   (G)   Other remedies. In addition to the remedy set forth above in this
section, the village shall be entitled to pursue any other remedy or may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent
jurisdiction, as permitted by law, to collect assessable costs from a
responsible party.
   (H)   No limitation of liability. The recovery of assessable costs pursuant
hereto does not limit the liability of a responsible party under applicable
local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 12-01, passed 3-5-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   WATER REGULATIONS
         
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
         
52.   SEWER RATES
         
53.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Rules and regulations
   
50.03   Connections to village water supply
   
50.04   Connections for fire purposes
   
50.05   Fire protection line tap
   
50.06   Authority to turn on water service
   
50.07   Limitations on water usage
   
50.08   Waste of water prohibited
   
50.09   Tampering with or injuring facilities
   
50.10   Fire hydrant usage; permit
   
50.11   Repairs; liability
Water Meters
   
50.25   Usage of meter
   
50.26   Meter access
   
50.27   Responsibility for meter
   
50.28   Tampering
   
50.29   Meter return
   
50.30   Accuracy; testing
Inspections and Warnings
   
50.45   Cross-connections
   
50.46   Inspections; frequency
   
50.47   Right of entry
   
50.48   Backflow prevention assemblies
   
50.49   Discontinuance of service; notice
   
50.50   Potable water supply
   
50.51   Supplementary to state
Rates and Charges
   
50.65   Generally
   
50.66   Due date; penalty
   
50.67   Free service prohibited
   
50.68   Inaccurate meters; meter failure; adjustments
   
50.69   Collection remedies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works.
   WATER CONNECTION.
      (1)   The part of the water distribution system connecting the water main
with the premises served.
      (2)   The connection ends at the curb box, provided, however, that the
water meter shall be the property of the village.
   WATER MAIN. The part of the water distribution system located within
easement lines or streets designed to supply more than one water connection.
(Prior Code, § 540.01)
§ 50.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director may make and issue additional rules and regulations concerning
the water distribution system, connection thereto, meter installations and
maintenance, connection and meter installation fees, hydrants and water mains,
and the appurtenances thereto, not inconsistent herewith. The rules and
regulations shall be effective upon approval by the Village Manager and
adoption by the Village Council. The rules and regulations now in effect shall
continue until changed in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 540.02)
§ 50.03 CONNECTIONS TO VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY.
   An application for a water connection shall be made to the Village Clerk on
forms prescribed and furnished by the Department. Water connections and water
meters shall be installed in accordance with rules and regulations of the
Department and upon payment of the required connection fee and meter
installation fee. All meters and water connections shall be the property of the
village. Connection fees shall not be less than the cost of materials,
installation, and overhead attributable to the installations. The fees and
charges shall be as established by resolution of the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 540.03)
§ 50.04 CONNECTIONS FOR FIRE PURPOSES.
   Upon application to the Village Manager, and under his or her direction or
his or her authorized representative's direction, proprietors of manufacturing
institutions, lumber yards, halls, stores, elevators, warehouses, hotels, and
public buildings wishing to lay large pipes with hydrant and hose coupling, to
be used only in case of fire, will be permitted to connect with the street
mains at their own expense, and will be allowed the use of water for fire
purposes, upon payment of standby charges as established by resolution of the
Village Council. All the pipes must be provided with a suitable valve, which
must be sealed by the village, and a stop and waste cock attached at the bottom
on the inside of the building. When the seal is broken for the extinguishment
of fire, the owner or party or proprietor shall immediately give notice to the
Village Manager, and in case the seal shall have been broken for any other
purpose, the party so offending shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A stand pipe
will not be allowed on any premises where the water is taken for other than
fire purposes, unless the consumption is metered and the meter charge paid.
(Prior Code, § 540.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 FIRE PROTECTION LINE TAP.
   No tap shall be made in any fire protection line unless special written
permission be secured from the Village Manager. Should there be evidence that
water is being illegally used from the fire lines, the village reserves the
right to turn off the water or demand that a meter be placed on the line.
Owners of the lines shall be liable for the payment of back water fees for
water unlawfully used from the lines.
(Prior Code, § 540.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 AUTHORITY TO TURN ON WATER SERVICE.
   No person, other than an authorized employee of the Department, shall turn
on or off any water service, except that a licensed plumber may turn on water
service for testing his or her work (after which it must be immediately turned
off), or, upon receiving a written permit from the Department, water may be
turned on for construction purposes only, prior to the granting of a
certificate of occupancy for the premises, and upon payment of the charges
applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 540.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 LIMITATIONS ON WATER USAGE.
   The Director may, when the public health and safety require it, regulate,
limit, or prohibit the use of water for any purpose. The regulations shall
restrict less essential water uses to the extent deemed necessary to assure an
adequate supply for essential domestic and commercial needs and for
firefighting. No regulations, limitations, or prohibitions shall be effective
until 24 hours after the publication thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village. Any person violating any such rule or regulation
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 540.07)
§ 50.08 WASTE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   The owner of the premises upon which a water meter is installed shall
prevent all unnecessary waste water.
(Prior Code, § 540.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 TAMPERING WITH OR INJURING FACILITIES.
   No person shall willfully or carelessly break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface, or tamper with any meter, seal, stop cock, curb box, service pipe,
hydrant, or other apparatus of the village water distribution system, or
prevent any water meter belonging to the village from duly registering the
quantity of water passing through the same, or in any way hinder or interfere
with its proper action or just registration, or attach any line or pipe to any
line belonging to the village. No person, unless he or she is a firefighter or
an authorized village employee, shall willfully open or tamper with a fire
hydrant. No person other than the Director or an employee of the Department
shall turn on water at the curb box or elsewhere after the same shall be turned
off by the Department.
(Prior Code, § 540.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 FIRE HYDRANT USAGE; PERMIT.
   No person, except an employee of the village in the performance of his or
her duties, shall open or use any fire hydrant, except in case of emergency,
without first securing a written permit from the Department and paying any
charges as may be prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 540.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11 REPAIRS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Repairs. In case of damage due to freezing, breakage, or leaking, the
village shall repair that portion of the water distribution line between the
main and the curb box, and the owner or tenant of the adjoining premises shall
be responsible for the repair of the line from the curb box to his or her
premises.
(Prior Code, § 540.11)
   (B)   Liability of village for broken pipes and the like. No claims shall be
made against the village by reason of freezing or breaking of any service
pipes, stop cocks, or other apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 540.12)
WATER METERS
§ 50.25 USAGE OF METER.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code, or otherwise authorized by the
Department, no person shall use, or cause to be used, any water supplied by the
village unless the same passes through a meter located and installed under the
direction of the Director or his or her authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 540.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.26 METER ACCESS.
   The Department shall have the right to shut off the supply of water to any
premises where the Department is not able to obtain access to the meters. Any
qualified employee of the Department shall, at all reasonable hours, have the
right to enter the premises where the meters are installed for the purpose of
reading, testing, removing, or inspecting same and no person shall hinder,
obstruct, or interfere with the employee in the lawful discharge of his or her
duties in relation to the care and maintenance of the water meter.
(Prior Code, § 540.14)
§ 50.27 RESPONSIBILITY FOR METER.
   The owner of the premises upon which a meter is installed is hereby made
responsible for the meter. If by any manner the meter is damaged or stolen, the
incident must be reported to the Director at once. It shall be the duty of the
village to make all meter repairs and charge same to the party made responsible
for the meter. If any damage occurs to the meter through the fault of the water
mains, repair will be made at the expense of the village. The village shall not
be responsible for any loss of water due to the freezing of any water meter.
(Prior Code, § 540.15)
§ 50.28 TAMPERING.
   No person, except an authorized Department employee, shall break or injure
the seal or change the location of, alter, or interfere in any way with the
water meter.
(Prior Code, § 540.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.29 METER RETURN.
   No person shall fail to deliver forthwith to the Village Clerk any water
meter after he or she shall have removed the same from the premises of a
consumer.
(Prior Code, § 540.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.30 ACCURACY; TESTING.
   (A)   A consumer may require that the water meter be tested. If the meter is
found accurate, a charge in an amount established by the Village Council will
be made. If the meter is found defective, it shall be repaired or an accurate
meter installed and no charge shall be made.
   (B)   A meter shall be considered accurate if, when tested, it registers not
to exceed 2% more or 2% less than the actual quantity of water passing through
it. If a meter registers in excess of 2% more than the actual quantity of water
passing through it, it shall be considered “fast” to that extent. If a meter
registers in excess of 2% less than the actual quantity of water passing
through it, it shall be considered "slow" to that extent.
   (C)   When the Department, on its own initiative, makes a test of a water
meter, it shall be done without cost to the consumer, other than his or her
paying the amount due the village for water used by him or her as provided in
this chapter, if the meter is found to be "slow."
(Prior Code, § 540.18)
INSPECTIONS AND WARNINGS
§ 50.45 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   The village adopts by reference the water supply cross-connection rules of
the State Department of Environmental Quality, being R325.11401 through
R325.11407.
(Prior Code, § 540.19) (Ord. 06-03, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 50.46 INSPECTIONS; FREQUENCY.
   It shall be the duty of the Department to cause inspections to be made of
all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections with
the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the Department and as approved by the State Department of
Environmental Quality.
(Prior Code, § 540.20) (Ord. 06-03, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 50.47 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The representative of the Department shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems
thereof for cross-connections. On request, the owners, lessees, or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the Department any pertinent
information regarding the piping systems on the property. The refusal of the
information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of
the presence of cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § 540.21)
§ 50.48 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   All testable backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested upon
installation to be sure that the device is working properly. Subsequent testing
of assemblies shall be conducted on an annual basis as required by the village
and in accordance with the State Department of Environmental Quality
requirements. Only individuals that are approved and state-certified shall be
qualified to perform the testing.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 50.49 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; NOTICE.
   The village is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service
after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in violation of
this code exists, and to take any other precautionary measures deemed necessary
to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply system.
Water service to the property shall not be restored until the cross-connection
has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 540.22)
§ 50.50 POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   The potable water supply made available to the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this code and by the State Plumbing Code. Any water outlet which could be
used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable
system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as: "WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING."
(Prior Code, § 540.23) (Ord. 06-03, passed 7-17-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.51 SUPPLEMENTARY TO STATE.
   This subchapter does not supercede the State Plumbing Code, but is
supplementary to it.
(Prior Code, § 540.24) (Ord. 06-03, passed 7-17-2006)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.65 GENERALLY.
   Persons using or otherwise desiring service from the village's water system
shall pay to the village the rates, charges, and fees established by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 540.25)
§ 50.66 DUE DATE; PENALTY.
   Water bills shall become due and payable on the date specified in the bill,
and for bills not paid by the due date, a 10% penalty shall be added.
(Prior Code, § 540.26)
§ 50.67 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No free service shall be furnished by the water system to any person, public
or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Prior Code, § 540.27)
§ 50.68 INACCURATE METERS; METER FAILURE; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   If a water meter has been tested at the request of a consumer and
shall have been determined to register "fast," the village shall credit the
consumer with a sum equal to the percent "fast" multiplied by the amount of all
bills incurred by the consumer within the three months prior to the test, and
if a meter so tested is determined to register "slow," the Department may
collect from the consumer a sum equal to the percent "slow" multiplied by the
amount of all the bills incurred by the consumer for the prior three months.
   (B)   If any meter shall fail to register properly, the Department shall
estimate the consumption on the basis of former consumption and bill
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 540.28)
§ 50.69 COLLECTION REMEDIES.
   (A)   Charges for water and sewer services may be a lien on the premises
served of water and sewer charges. Those eligible charges which are delinquent
for six months or more shall be certified on April 1 of each year by the
village officials in charge of their collection to the tax assessing officer of
the village, who shall enter the lien on the next tax roll against the premises
to which the services have been rendered, and the charges shall be collected
and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided for the
collection of general village taxes assessed upon the roll and the enforcement
of the lien for the general village taxes.
   (B)   The village may discontinue water service or sewage system service
from the premises against which the lien created by this section has accrued if
a person fails to pay the rates, assessment charges, or rentals for the
respective service and after notice of a hearing as provided in division (C)
below, or may institute an action for the collection of the same in any court
of competent jurisdiction. However, the village's attempts to collect the
sewage system or water rates, assessments, charges, or rentals by any process
shall not invalidate or waive the lien upon the premises. Water and sewer
services so discontinued shall not be restored until all sums then due and
owing shall be paid, plus a turn-on charge in an amount established by
resolution.
   (C)   Notice of intent to terminate water service shall be mailed to the
owner/occupant of the dwelling. The notice shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Number of months delinquent and amount owing;
      (2)   Intention of village to terminate service; and
      (3)   Owner's/occupant’s rights to appeal.
   (D)   Any person receiving notice of intent to terminate water service shall
have the right of appeal to the Village Manager. The appeals shall be made by
filing with the Village Clerk, within 14 days after notice has been mailed, a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The water
shall not be shut off while an appeal is pending. At the appeal hearing,
testimony may be given and evidence may be presented. After the hearing, the
Village Manager shall make a determination of facts and recommendations for
consideration by the Village Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
The Village Council shall make a final determination on the matter.
(Prior Code, § 540.29)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose; scope
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Management of POTW
Disposal
   
51.15   Wastewater disposal
   
51.16   Sewers; connections
Discharge
   
51.30   General prohibitions
   
51.31   Specific prohibitions
   
51.32   Pretreatment
   
51.33   Permit to discharge
   
51.34   Inspections
   
51.35   Reporting and information requirements
   
51.36   Spill prevention
   
51.37   Surcharges
Enforcement
   
51.50   Village Director
   
51.51   Authority to set fees; charges; penalties
   
51.52   Administrative enforcement procedures
   
51.53   Collection of fees
   
51.54   Saving clause
Cross-reference:
   Sewer Rates, see
Ch. 52
   Water Regulations, see
Ch. 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards, rules,
and regulations with respect to the use of the POTW; to provide for equitable
distribution of the costs of the POTW facilities; to improve the opportunity to
recycle and reclaim wastewater and sludge from the system; to protect POTW
personnel who may be affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their
employment; and to provide procedures for complying with the requirements
contained herein and to protect the environment from pollution.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   This chapter shall apply to the village and to persons outside the
village who, by contract or agreement with the village, discharge into the
POTW. Any other governing unit that discharges into the POTW shall adopt an
ordinance which is substantially identical to this chapter and which is
approved by the village as being sufficiently identical.
      (2)   This chapter provides for the regulation of discharges into the
POTW through the issuance of permits to significant industrial users and
through enforcement of the chapter's requirements against all dischargers into
the POTW. This chapter authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities and
requires discharger reporting.
      (3)   This chapter provides for the investigation of instances of pass-
through or interference, the notification of the responsible industry, and the
appropriate enforcement actions.
(Prior Code, § 542.01)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 451 of 1994, §§ 3101 through 3119, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.3101 through 324.3119, as amended.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing and Materials.
   B.O.D. or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the wastewater plumbing facilities of a
building or premises to the public sanitary sewer.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or FCPS. Any regulation containing
pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the E.P.A. in accordance with §§ 307
(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317, which apply to a specific
category of nondomestic users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N (1990), Parts 405-471.
   C.F.R. Shall refer to the chapter of the Code of Federal Regulations as
published by the United States government. All definitions, terminology, and
references to 40 C.F.R. shall be in accordance with its latest revisions.
   C.O.D. or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The measure of the oxygen consuming
capacity of inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater,
expressed as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a
specified test; it does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic
matter, and thus does not necessarily correlate with B.O.D.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM. All of the common sewers, lift stations, pumps, and other
equipment of the village and of a municipality which has a contract with the
village for discharge to the POTW treatment plant which are primarily installed
to receive wastewater and pollutants directly from users for transmission to
the POTW treatment plant.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any sewer designed or intended to receive both storm water
and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL or CLASS II USER. Any premises occupied by a user not within the
definition of an INDUSTRIAL USER or RESIDENTIAL USER, and which is connected to
the POTW.
   CONNECTION PERMIT. A permit issued by the village for the connection of a
building sewer into the POTW.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment (including contractual obligations to purchase the facilities or
equipment) at the premises where the equipment will be used, including
preparation work at the premises, if the equipment will in any way actually or
potentially affect the quality or quantity of discharges or the measurement or
analysis of a discharge.
   DAILY AVERAGE. The sum of the concentrations of a constituent for the
measurement period divided by the number of days on which the discharge was
sampled and analyzed in the period. The concentrations which are added are
single numbers for single days for all days for which analyses are obtained
(whether by the user or the village), but the concentrations may be based upon
a sample or samples taken over either all or part of that day and upon single
or multiple analyses for that day as determined by the village.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The concentration which shall not be exceeded on any single
calendar day.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the POTW which is either
intentional or unintentional.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source which is not a NEW SOURCE, as defined in this
section.
   FCPS or FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. See CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   GROUNDWATER. Water which is pumped or otherwise captured from the ground and
which is not used in a process. Mere treatment of GROUNDWATER is not use in a
process.
   INDUSTRIAL or CLASS III USER. Any user identified in Divisions A, B, D, E,
or I of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual. CLASS III shall also
include any user, industrial or otherwise, which discharges wastewater
containing toxic or poisonous substances, or any substance(s) which cause
interference to the conveyance or treatment process or any user designated as a
categorical industry in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER LINES. Those lines whose basic function is to collect
wastewater from two or more separate trunk sewer lines and to transport the
wastewater to the POTW treatment plant.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal; and
      (2)   Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the NPDES permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the following
statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued thereunder (or more
stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq. (including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)), and including state regulations
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D
of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 2681 et seq., and the Marine
Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and
33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   MDEQ or DEQ. The State Department of Environmental Quality, or its
successor.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter, or ppm.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the Clean
Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c), which will be applicable to the source if
the standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section,
provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge at an
existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE, as defined under this definition, has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USER. Any user not defined under RESIDENTIAL or CLASS I USER.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System for the discharge of wastewater into the surface waters of
the state.
   ORGANIC CHEMICALS. Compounds composed of carbon and hydrogen or their
derivatives which are human-made or byproducts of human-made or natural
substances which include, but are not limited to, synthetic fibers, plastics,
rubber, medicinals, solvents, surface-active agents, pesticides, and other
agricultural chemicals and lubricating oil additives or other petroleum
derivatives.
   OWNER. Owners of record of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, or other person in control of a building.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERMIT TO DISCHARGE or PTD. A control document issued by the village that
controls the wastewater discharges from nonresidential users into the publicly
owned treatment works.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, municipality, company, association, society,
corporation, partnership, or group, including their officers and employees, who
have responsibility for or actual involvement in the matters regulated by this
chapter.
   pH. The negative logarithm of the concentration of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any material which is discharged to the POTW or is proposed for
discharge to the POTW. The term also includes properties of the materials such
as pH and heat.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The POTW exclusive of the collection system.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land, or building, having any connection,
direct or indirect, to the POTW.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in sewage
to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing the pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes, process changes; or by
other means, except for the use of dilution, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. A nonresidential user waste control program which is
required in a publicly owned treatment works’ wastewater discharge permit or
order of the Department of Environmental Quality and which is developed in
accordance with R323.2306.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. The treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1292, which are owned by the
village and the collection system. The term also means the village or its
authorized representative. This term includes any devices, processes, and
systems used by or for the village in the storage, treatment, recycling, or
reclamation of wastewater or sludge from the treatment works or the collection
system.
   RESIDENTIAL or CLASS I USER. Any premises used only for human residency and
which is connected to the wastewater facilities.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted, and which may include pumping
stations, metering stations, and other appurtenances.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities of a user which causes them to become all or partially
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY
DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. Any user of the POTW that:
      (1)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day of process
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blow down
wastewater);
      (3)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more of the
average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW; or
      (4)   Is designated as such by the POTW on the basis that the user has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. A violation which meets one or more of the
following criteria specified in R323.2302(dd):
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant taken during
a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or
the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for B.O.D., TSS,
fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants, except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer-term average) which the POTW determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority under R323.2306(a)(vi) to halt or prevent
such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a permit to discharge or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and/or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the POTW
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. A discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-routine batch discharge.
   SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility, vehicle, or installation from
which there is or may be a discharge to the POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION or SIC. A code number used to identify
specific industrial classifications.
   STATE DIRECTOR. The Director of the State Water Pollution Control Agency.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters, and drainage of waters which are not wastewater.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or S.S. Solids that either float on the surface of, or in
suspension in, wastewater and which can be removed by standard laboratory
procedures.
   ug/l. Micrograms per liter, or ppb.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards or other limits
applicable to the user because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   U.S.E.P.A. or E.P.A. The United States Environmental Protection Agency, or
its successor.
   USER. A person who discharges, either directly or indirectly, into the POTW
and a municipality whose collection system discharges into the POTW.
   VILLAGE DIRECTOR or DIRECTOR. The person designated by the village as the
Director of Public Works.
   WASTEWATER. Water discharged to the POTW by a user which may or may not
contain other pollutants.
   WEF. Water Environment Federation.
(Prior Code, § 542.02)
§ 51.03 MANAGEMENT OF POTW.
   (A)   Management of the POTW. The POTW shall be and remain under the
management, supervision, and control of the village. The Village Director shall
administer the facility and the village may employ any others as the village
deems advisable to carry out the management, operation, and administration of
the POTW.
   (B)   Standards, rules, orders, and regulations. The village may make any
rules, orders, or regulations as deemed advisable and necessary to assure the
proper management, operation, and administration of the POTW. The standards,
rules, orders, and regulations established in or pursuant to this chapter are
for the preservation of the public health, safety, welfare, and to fulfill the
obligations of the village with respect to state and federal law and all rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and to provide for proper management,
operation, and administration of the POTW.
   (C)   Deny or condition. The village may deny or condition connection to or
use of the POTW in accordance with federal, state, and local laws.
(Prior Code, § 542.03)
DISPOSAL
§ 51.15 WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Wastewater discharges to natural outlets. It shall be unlawful to
discharge any waters or wastes other than nonregulated storm water without an
NPDES permit to any natural outlet within the village, or in any area under its
jurisdiction, either directly or through a village storm sewer.
   (B)   Wastewater disposal. Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
      (1)   It shall not be unlawful for the owner of a house, building, or
property to construct or maintain any privy or privy vault where the owner is
the village and the house, building, or property is presently a public park or
is designated as or is being developed by the village for a public park.
      (2)   Temporary activities such as construction projects, special events,
and similar activities not serviced by approved permanent wastewater disposal
systems shall be provided with approved temporary sanitary toilet facilities,
such as commercial portable sanitary privies for use by persons working at or
visiting the site of the temporary activity. The facilities shall be maintained
in a sanitary condition throughout the permitted period. Sponsors of the
activities may not begin activities without first obtaining a permit for a
period not to exceed six months, and paying the required fee.
   (C)   Private system required. All houses, buildings, or properties which
are required by other authority to have sanitary or industrial wastewater
facilities and are located where the POTW is not available or required, as
specified by the provisions of division (E) below, shall be equipped at the
owner's expense with suitable wastewater facilities connected to a private
wastewater disposal system which complies with the provisions of this section,
and all applicable requirements of the State Department of Public Health and
the County Sanitation Code. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet. Before commencement of
construction of a private sanitary disposal system, the owner shall first
obtain a written permit from the village. The application for such a permit
shall be made on a form furnished by the village, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed
necessary by the Director. A permit and inspection fee in the amount as shall
be determined by resolution of the Village Council shall be paid to the Village
Clerk at the time the application is filed.
   (D)   Sanitary operation required. The owner shall operate and maintain
private wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times in
accordance with applicable state requirements and at no expense to the village.
The facilities shall be subject to inspection by the village at reasonable
times.
   (E)   Connection to wastewater sewer required. The owner of any house,
building, or property which is used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, or other purposes, and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-
way in which the POTW is available, is required at the owner's expense to
install suitable wastewater disposal facilities therein, and to connect the
facilities directly to the POTW in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 180 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that
the POTW is within 100 feet of the property line, or if required by the County
Health Department. Any septic tanks, cesspools, or similar wastewater disposal
facilities shall, upon connection to the POTW, be emptied of wastes and either
removed or refilled with suitable material to prevent collapse as ordered by
the Village Director or other applicable authorities. This division (E) shall
not apply to any persons served by a privately constructed, owned, operated,
and maintained wastewater sewer and wastewater treatment facility which
discharges directly to a natural outlet in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and applicable state and federal laws. This division (E) shall
likewise not apply where the owner is the village and the house, building, or
property is presently a public park or is designated as or is being developed
by the village for a public park.
   (F)   Further requirements. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
health officials or other applicable authorities.
(Prior Code, § 542.04) (Ord. 02-02, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 SEWERS; CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Connection permit.
      (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, use, alter, disturb, or make
any connections with the POTW or a storm sewer, nor shall any person discharge
any substance into the POTW or storm sewer without possessing a valid
connection permit of a class appropriate to the use of the premises and the
discharges to the POTW therefrom. All persons presently using the POTW shall be
deemed to possess a valid connection permit.
      (2)   There shall be three classes of permits for connections to the
POTW: Class I, residential users; Class II, commercial users; and Class III,
industrial users. In all cases, the owner shall make application on a form
furnished by the village for a permit of the applicable class to connect to the
POTW or storm sewer. The application shall be supplemented by any wastewater
information as required by the village to administer this chapter. A permit and
inspection fee in the amount as shall be determined by resolution of the
Village Council shall be paid to the village at the time an application is
filed.
      (3)   Prior to obtaining a permit to connect to the POTW, all
nonresidential users shall file a nonresidential user survey form with the
POTW. Upon receipt of the nonresidential user survey form, a review and
determination will be made concerning the need for the nonresidential user to
apply for and obtain a permit to discharge.
      (4)   The village may deny a connection permit if the application for
permit shows that anticipated discharges will be harmful to the POTW or storm
sewer, will violate the provisions of this chapter, or in any other way will
hamper the operations of the POTW or storm sewer. The village may require, as a
condition to granting the permit, that the applicant obtain a permit to
discharge as set forth in §
51.33.
      (5)   The village shall not issue a connection permit for any applicant
unless there is sufficient capacity, not legally committed to other users, in
the POTW or storm sewer to convey and adequately treat the quantity and quality
of wastewater which the required connection will add to the POTW or storm
sewer. The village may allow the permit if there are legally binding
commitments to provide the needed capacity.
      (6)   A violation of any provision or requirement contained in a
connection permit is a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Building sewer connection and maintenance.
      (1)   The owner shall be responsible for the actual physical connection
to the POTW or storm sewer. The costs and expenses incidental to the building
sewer installation and connection to the POTW or storm sewer shall be borne by
the owner. The connection charge shall be borne by the owner and shall be
established by resolution.
      (2)   The owner shall also be responsible for the maintenance of the
building sewer and the costs of the maintenance shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (3)   Sewer clean out responsibilities.
         (a)   Village’s responsibility. From the main out.
         (b)   Property owner’s responsibility.
            1.   Lateral lines from the house to the main.
            2.   If the blockage requires the street/sidewalk to be torn up:
               a.   A permit shall be issued by the village, the same as
repaving a driveway;
               b.   The owner is responsible for obtaining the permit and
contracting out the work; and
               c.   A final inspection shall be done by the Department of
Public Works to approve the final work.
   (C)   Separate connections required. A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building, except that where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, courtyard, or driveway, the building sewer in the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
The village assumes no responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from
any single building sewer which serves two buildings.
   (D)   Existing building sewers. Existing building sewers may be used for
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the village, to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Building sewer design. The size, slope, alignment, construction
materials, trench excavation and backfill methods, pipe placement, jointing,
and testing methods used in the construction and installation of the building
sewer shall conform to the building and plumbing codes or other applicable
requirements of the village. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WEF shall apply.
   (F)   Building sewer elevation. Whenever practicable, the building sewer
shall be brought to a building at an elevation below the basement floor. In
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
POTW or storm sewer, as the case may be, wastewater carried by the building
drain shall be lifted by an approved means, at the expense of the owner, and
discharged to a building sewer draining to the POTW or storm sewer.
   (G)   Conformance to applicable chapters and village requirements.
      (1)   The connection of a building sewer into the POTW or storm sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other
applicable requirements of the village. In the absence of code provisions or in
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WEF shall apply. The connections shall be made
gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved in writing by the village
before installation.
      (2)   The connection of a surface runoff or groundwater drain to a storm
sewer or natural outlet designed to transport surface runoff or groundwater
drainage shall conform to the requirements of the applicable building code or
other applicable requirements of the village. The connection of any such drain
to the POTW under a permit to discharge shall conform to the requirements
specified by the village as a condition of approval of the PTD.
      (3)   The Village Director, either at the time of the connection of the
building sewer to the POTW or at a later time, shall have the authority to
require installation of a monitoring or sampling manhole, grease or sand
interceptors, or any other facilities which, in his or her opinion, shall be
necessary for the protection and/or proper operation of the POTW. The type,
installation, and design of these facilities shall be subject to the approval
of the Village Director.
   (H)   Connection inspection. The applicant for a connection permit shall
notify the village when the sewer or drainage connection is ready for
inspection. The Village Director shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction. Prior to its connection to the POTW or storm sewer, and
upon payment of any fees required by the village, inspection and testing as
deemed necessary by the village, and as required by village building or
plumbing codes, shall be conducted at the expense of the owner.
   (I)   Excavation guards and property restoration. Excavations for building
sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as
to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other
public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a
manner satisfactory to the village and at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 542.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
DISCHARGE
§ 51.30 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   The regulations contained in this section and §
51.31 are generally intended to:
   (A)   Prohibit the discharge to the POTW of wastewater which may cause
interference or could have detrimental effects on the physical structures or
operating personnel of the POTW, or on the general public; and
   (B)   Restrict the discharge to the POTW of storm water, groundwater
(contaminated and uncontaminated), and non-contact cooling water.
(Prior Code, § 542.06)
§ 51.31 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. No user shall discharge, cause to be discharged, or allow
to be discharged into the POTW any of the following:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, pollutants with a closed cup flashpoint of less
than 140°F (60°C), as determined by a Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester, using
the test method specified in ASTM standard D-93-79 or D-93-80k (incorporated by
reference) or a Setaflash Closed Cup Tester, using the test method specified in
ASTM Standard D-3278-78 (incorporated by reference) and pollutants which cause
an exceedance of 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) at any point within the
POTW;
      (2)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute or chronic health and
safety problems for workers;
      (3)   Pollutants which cause or may cause corrosive structural damage to
the POTW but in no case wastewater with pH lower than six and one-half or
higher than nine and one-half;
      (4)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which could cause or do
cause either obstruction to flow or interference in the POTW;
      (5)   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding pollutants, released in a
discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which will cause or may
cause interference in the POTW;
      (6)   Pollutants which may cause:
         (a)   Impairment of the strength or durability of structures in the
POTW;
         (b)   Restriction of hydraulic capacity of structures in the POTW; and
         (c)   Unsafe conditions to personnel in the inspection or maintenance
of structures of the POTW or unsafe conditions to the general public, with
respect to the collection system.
      (7)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in the quantities that the
temperature at the point of discharge exceeds 65°C (150°F) or that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40°C (104°F) unless the State
Director, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature limits;
      (8)   Pollutants which cause or may cause pass-through or interference,
including petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that cause or may cause interference or pass-through;
      (9)   Any pollutants which exceed the limitations set forth in a
categorical pretreatment standard;
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance;
      (11)   Any pollutant introducing colors not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (12)   Any unpolluted water, non-contact cooling water, storm water,
groundwater (contaminated and uncontaminated), or surface water;
      (13)   Any radioactive wastes in harmful quantities as such quantities
are defined by applicable state and federal regulations;
      (14)   Any solvent extractables (grease, fat, oils) in excess of a daily
average of 75 mg/l;
      (15)   Any grease, oil, or other pollutants that will become solid or
viscous at a temperature of 50°C or below after being discharged into the POTW;
      (16)   Any insoluble substance retained by a standard No. 8 sieve or
having any dimension greater than one-half inch or one and twenty-seven
hundredths centimeters;
      (17)   Insoluble substances having a specific gravity greater than two
and sixty-five hundredths;
      (18)   Improperly shredded garbage;
      (19)   Any water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable
to treatment or reduction by the processes employed by the POTW or would upset
the treatment process or are amenable to treatment only to such a degree that
the POTW effluent cannot meet the requirements of any state or federal agency
having jurisdiction over the discharge by the POTW to the receiving waters;
      (20)   Sludge which results from a treatment process unless the Village
Director has determined that it is amenable to treatment by the POTW without
application of unusual means or expense; and/or
      (21)   Discharges greater than the concentrations of specific pollutants
as provided for in division (C) below.
   (B)   Trucked wastes. No wastes or wastewater shall be discharged by any
user into the POTW from a vehicle which transported the waste or wastewater to
the point of discharge, unless the discharge is approved in writing, by the
Village Director, prior to the discharge. No wastes or wastewater shall be
discharged by any user if the waste or wastewater was at any time transported
by a vehicle (such as a tank truck) from its point of generation prior to
discharge to the POTW, unless the discharge is approved in writing by the
Village Director prior to the discharge. The Village Director may specify which
location must be used and any other terms and conditions for the discharges.
   (C)   Local limitations on wastewater discharges. All users of the POTW
shall be subject to limitations as to concentration, mass, and/or volume for
wastewater discharges. These limitations shall be adopted by resolution and
kept on file at the POTW. They shall be revised from time to time as required
by discharge limitations imposed on the POTW by any state, federal, or other
public agency having jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters,
and the final disposal of residual solids from the treatment process, or for
any reason the POTW deems necessary. The limitations referred to in this
division (C) shall henceforth be referred to as local limits and shall be
deemed pretreatment standards in accordance with R323.2303 Rule 3(4)(d).
   (D)   Right of revision. The village may revise local discharge limitations
in accordance with applicable laws as necessary to prevent interference with
POTW treatment processes, residual solids disposal practices, or effluent to
the waters of the state.
   (E)   Bypass.
      (1)   Bypass notice. If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass,
it shall submit prior notice to the POTW, if possible at least ten days before
the date of the bypass. A user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable categorical pretreatment standards and other
applicable limits to the POTW within 24 hours from the time the user becomes
aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five
days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission
shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the
bypass, including exact dates and times; and, if the bypass has not been
corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or
planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW
may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has
been received within 24 hours.
      (2)   Prohibition of bypass. Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW may take
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (E)(1)
above.
      (3)   POTW-approved bypass. The POTW may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the POTW determines that it will meet
the three conditions listed in subparagraph (E)(2) above.
   (F)   Upset.
      (1)   Upset liability. In the event of an upset, the user shall not be
liable for the fines or civil penalties provided for in this chapter, but the
user is still liable to the village for surcharges and damages. In any
enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the occurrence of an
upset shall have the burden of proof by clear and convincing evidence.
      (2)   Conditions necessary for a demonstration of upset. A user who
wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate, through
properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence
that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
            1.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   User responsibility in case of upset. The user shall control
production or all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards and other applicable limits upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided.
   (G)   Categorical pretreatment standards. A user shall comply with all
categorical pretreatment standards and any other pretreatment requirements
established under §§ 307(b), 307(c), or 402(b)(8) of the Clean Water Act, being
33 U.S.C. §§ 1317(b), 1317(c) and 1342(B)(8), respectively, that are applicable
to that user. If a categorical pretreatment standard and another limit
contained in this chapter regulate the same pollutant, then the more
restrictive of the two shall apply.
   (H)   Future conditions. Future conditions imposed on the village by
government agencies with proper jurisdiction may require subsequent amendment
of these regulations by the village. Where federal or state promulgated
pretreatment standards require limits on parameters not covered in this
regulation or limits more stringent than those specified in the regulation, the
state or federal limits shall have precedence and take effect with respect to
the applicable user on the later of their promulgation date, or the date
specified for compliance with the standards.
   (I)   Dilution prohibited. No discharger shall increase the use of potable
or process water in any way, for the purpose of diluting a discharge as a
partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment before discharge to the
POTW to achieve compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (J)   Special agreements. No statement contained in this chapter shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement between the village and any
industrial user whereby an industrial waste containing compatible pollutants,
up to levels which are within treatment capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, may be accepted, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern,
provided the agreement shall not violate E.P.A. guidelines or NPDES
requirements, and provided user charges and surcharges as provided in this
chapter are agreed to in the agreement.
(Prior Code, § 542.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.32 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Federal categorical pretreatment.
      (1)   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
shall be subject to the rules, regulations, and requirements of the Michigan
General Rules Part 23 governing Pretreatment R323.2301 to 323.2317.
      (2)   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged to the POTW,
wastewaters containing substances subject to an applicable federal categorical
pretreatment standard promulgated by E.P.A. or any other discharge limitation
set by the village under §
51.31(C), whichever is lower, in excess of the quantity prescribed in the
applicable pretreatment standards or discharge limitations except as otherwise
provided in this section. Compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards
or discharge limitations shall be within the time set by E.P.A. or by the
village, whichever is less.
   (B)   Existing sources.
      (1)   Existing sources shall comply with categorical pretreatment
standards within three years of the date the standard is effective unless a
shorter compliance time is specified in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N.
      (2)   Existing sources which become significant industrial users
subsequent to promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
shall be considered existing industrial users, except where the sources meet
the definition of a new source as defined in §
51.02.
   (C)   New sources.
      (1)   Compliance with categorical pretreatment standards and local limits
for new sources shall be as follows.
         (a)   New sources shall install and have in operating condition, and
shall start up all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
pretreatment standards and local limits before beginning to discharge.
         (b)   Within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days) new
sources shall meet all applicable categorical pretreatment standards and local
limits.
      (2)   New sources, and sources that become significant industrial users
subsequent to the promulgation of categorical standards shall submit a baseline
monitoring report (BMR) to the Village Director at least 90 days prior to the
commencement of any discharge. The BMR shall include information as specified
in §
51.35.
      (3)   All industrial users shall comply with the reporting requirements
including compliance schedule progress reports, 90-day compliance reports and
periodic compliance reports for existing and new sources as outlined in §
51.35.
   (D)   Wastewaters with special characteristics.
      (1)   While the village may initially rely upon the federal categorical
pretreatment standards to protect the POTW or receiving waters, if any
wastewater which contains substances or possesses characteristics in excess of
those established under this section, §
51.31(C), or which constitutes a public nuisance or hazard, is discharged or is
proposed for discharge to the wastewater sewers, the POTW may:
         (a)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition prior to
discharge to the POTW;
         (b)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge into
the POTW;
         (c)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastewaters not covered by existing fees or charges;
         (d)   Require the development of compliance schedules to meet any
applicable pretreatment requirements; and/or
         (e)   Require the submission of reports necessary to assure compliance
with applicable pretreatment requirements:
            1.   Carry out all inspections, surveillance, and monitoring
necessary to determine compliance with applicable pretreatment requirements;
            2.   Obtain remedies for noncompliance by any user. The remedies
may include those specified in §§
51.50 through
51.52; and/or
            3.   Reject the wastewater.
      (2)   When considering the above alternatives, the POTW shall assure that
conditions of the POTW’s NPDES permit are met. The POTW shall also take into
consideration cost effectiveness and the economic impact of the alternatives on
the user. If the POTW allows the pretreatment or equalization of wastewater
flows, the installation of the necessary facilities shall be subject to review
and approval by the village. The POTW shall review and recommend any
appropriate changes to the program within 60 days of submittal.
      (3)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are approved or
required for any wastewater, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the user.
   (E)   Compliance with pretreatment requirements. users required to pretreat
wastewater in accordance with this chapter, shall be required to submit reports
on compliance with pretreatment requirements in accordance with §
51.35. When so directed by the POTW, industrial users shall provide, at their
expense, the pretreatment as may be necessary to comply with the concentration,
mass and/or volume limitations established in this chapter; and furthermore,
limit the discharge of the regulated pollutants so as not to cause interference
with the POTW treatment processes, residual solids disposal practices or
effluent quality discharged to the waters of the state.
   (F)   Removal credits. Upon application by an industrial user or upon its
own initiative the POTW shall review any limitations on substances specified in
the applicable pretreatment standards and may modify the limitations to reflect
historic removal of the substances by the POTW treatment facility if the
requirements contained in R323.2313(a) are fulfilled and prior approval from
the MDEQ is obtained. Revised discharge limitations for specified substances
shall be derived in accordance with R323.2313(a) governing removal credits.
   (G)   Fundamentally different factors. Upon application by an industrial
user, the POTW shall review and may adjust any limitation on substances
specified in the applicable pretreatment standards to consider factors relating
to the user which are fundamentally different from the factors considered by
E.P.A. during the development of the pretreatment standard. Request for and
determination of a fundamentally different adjustment shall be in accordance
with R323.2313(b) governing variance from categorical pretreatment standards
for fundamentally different factors.
   (H)   Net/gross calculation. Any industrial user may seek an adjustment in
the categorical pretreatment standards to reflect the presence of pollutants in
the users’ intake water. The POTW may allow a credit in accordance with
R323.2313(c) governing net/gross calculations.
   (I)   Equivalent mass/concentration based limits. If in establishing
discharge restrictions, discharge limits, or pretreatment requirements pursuant
to this chapter, the POTW establishes concentration limits to be met by an
industrial user, the POTW, in lieu of concentration limits, may establish mass
limits of a comparable or more stringent nature. The POTW may impose mass
limitations on industrial users which use dilution to meet applicable discharge
limits or in other cases where the imposition of mass limitations is
appropriate. If the limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass pollutant per unit of production, the POTW may convert
the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant
discharged per day or effluent concentration limits for the purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual categorical
industries. Equivalent limitations calculated in accordance with this section
shall be deemed pretreatment standards for the purposes of § 307(d) of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(d), and this section. Industrial users
will be required to comply with the equivalent limitations in lieu of the
promulgated categorical standards from which the equivalent limitations were
derived.
   (J)   Combined waste stream.
      (1)   Where process effluent is mixed prior to treatment with wastewaters
other than those generated by the regulated process, fixed alternative
discharge limits may be derived by the POTW, as defined in R323.2313(e) and
R323.2311(7).
      (2)   These alternative limits shall be applied to the mixed effluent.
   (K)   Notification. The POTW shall notify any user affected by the
provisions of this section and establish an enforceable compliance schedule for
each.
(Prior Code, § 542.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.33 PERMIT TO DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Control through permit to discharge. The POTW shall control through
the issuance of a permit to discharge (PTD), the contribution to the POTW by
industrial users to ensure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements.
   (B)   Permit application. In accordance with the provisions of §
51.16, a determination concerning the need for a permit to discharge (PTD) will
be made by the POTW for each nonresidential connection to the POTW. The POTW
shall provide forms and receive applications for a PTD from all users subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   The POTW shall identify and locate all possible existing users
which may be subject to these rules and regulations.
      (2)   Each existing or new nonresidential user shall file a
nonresidential user survey form for each connection to the sanitary sewer. If
determined applicable, users shall, within 60 days following notification by
the POTW, file an application for a PTD.
      (3)   The POTW shall attempt to notify all existing industrial users of
the requirements and provisions of this chapter, including permitting
requirements, within 60 days following adoption of this chapter.
      (4)   The application for a PTD shall contain any information as
determined necessary by the POTW and shall include a statement of pollutants
expected in wastewater discharged to the POTW. A new application showing
updated information shall be filed for each renewal of a PTD.
      (5)   The POTW shall act on all applications within 60 days. If the POTW
issues a request for further information within the stated time, the POTW shall
have 30 days in which to act after receipt of all requested information.
   (C)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   PTDs may be issued with conditions for compliance and stipulated
schedules for achieving compliance. PTDs may alternatively require the user to
submit (within 30 days of issuance of a conditional PTD) a schedule or
schedules for achieving compliance.
      (2)   Permittees shall furnish to the POTW as required by permit
conditions: compliance data reports, compliance progress reports, periodic
compliance reports and reports on changes in process that affect the strength
or content of wastewater discharges. Reports shall conform to §
51.35 or permit conditions, whichever is more stringent.
      (3)   The permit to discharge issued by the POTW shall contain, at a
minimum, the following conditions:
         (a)   Statement of duration;
         (b)   Statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Effluent limits based on applicable general pretreatment
standards, categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and state and
local law;
         (d)   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record
keeping requirements, including an identification of the pollutants to be
monitored, sampling location, and sample type; and
         (e)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violations.
   (D)   Permit term. A permit to discharge shall be issued for a term not to
exceed five years. The Village Director may issue the permit for a shorter
period. A permittee shall apply for reissuance of a permit by submitting a
complete application at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the existing
permit. If a permittee complies with the preceding sentence, the existing
permit shall continue until final action is taken by the Village Director on
the application for renewal.
   (E)   Permit modification.
      (1)   The Village Director shall have the right to amend any permit
issued hereunder in order to:
         (a)   Assure compliance by the POTW with applicable laws, regulations,
and the POTW's NPDES permit;
         (b)   Account for substantial changes in discharges by the user;
         (c)   Account for new information concerning the pollutants discharged
by the user;
         (d)   Reflect changes in federal or state laws and regulations or in
village codified ordinances;
         (e)   Account for any operational changes at the POTW that as
determined by the Village Director, require the revision of the permit; or
         (f)   Modify or terminate any special agreement provision contained in
a permit.
      (2)   The user shall be informed of any changes in the permit at least 30
days prior to the effective date of change, unless a shorter time is necessary
to meet applicable law or to protect human health or the environment.
   (F)   Permit fees. Significant industrial users shall pay a fee for a permit
to discharge to the village in amounts to reimburse the village for its costs
of processing the application, in administering the permit once it has been
issued, and in processing renewal application. These fees shall be established
by resolution of the Village Council.
   (G)   Permit revocation.
      (1)   The Village Director may revoke a permit during its term or deny a
permit renewal if:
         (a)   The permittee has failed to comply with any condition of the
permit;
         (b)   The permittee fails, in the permit application or during the
permit issuance process, to disclose fully all relevant facts, or the permittee
misrepresents any relevant fact at any time;
         (c)   The Village Director determines that the permitted discharge
endangers human health or the environment and the threat can only be abated by
revocation of the permit;
         (d)   There is a change in any condition that requires either a
temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the discharge;
         (e)   The permittee is in default, after having received written
notice of the default, in the payment of fees or other amounts owed to the
village related to wastewater matters; and/or
         (f)   The permitted use is in noncompliance with any provision of this
chapter.
      (2)   Upon revocation of its permit, a user shall immediately terminate
its discharge to the POTW.
   (H)   Compliance with permit. A user shall comply with all of the provisions
of its permit. A violation of any provision of a permit is a violation of this
chapter, subject to the penalty, damage, and other enforcement provisions of
this chapter.
   (I)   Transferability. PTDs are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation at a specific location and are not assignable to another user or
transferable to any other location. This provision shall not apply to minor
changes in stock ownership, but shall apply to mergers, sales, or other events
in which the corporate name or identity is changed.
(Prior Code, § 542.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.34 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Authority of inspectors.
      (1)   The Village Director or other duly authorized representative
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter
private or public properties at any reasonable time for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, and/or sampling of the user's discharge.
The inspection shall be conducted for the purposes of determining that the
discharge to the POTW is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and
to obtain remedies for noncompliance.
      (2)   Representatives of the village must be permitted to enter any
private or public properties at any hour during or following emergencies,
spills, plant upsets, or to investigate real or suspected violations of this
chapter.
      (3)   Inspections may be announced or unannounced.
   (B)   Safety rules of users.
      (1)   While on the property of the user, the authorized representative of
the village shall observe all reasonable safety rules applicable to the
premises established by the user.
      (2)   Users of the public or private property in which sanitary sewers
are located shall maintain the sanitary sewer and the surrounding area in a
safe condition free from obstacles, obstructions, and deterioration.
   (C)   Other inspections. Inspection by state or federal representatives
pursuant to law shall not relieve a user from inspection by village
representatives, and inspection by the village representatives shall not
relieve any user from compliance with lawful inspection by state and federal
representatives.
(Prior Code, § 542.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.35 REPORTING AND INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required submittal of information.
      (1)   All industrial users shall file with the POTW wastewater
information deemed necessary by the POTW for determination of compliance with
this chapter, the POTW's NPDES permit, and state and federal law. The
information shall be provided by completion of a questionnaire designed and
supplied by the POTW and by supplements thereto as may be necessary.
Information requested in the questionnaire and designated by the user as
confidential is subject to the conditions of confidentiality as set forth in
division (K) below.
      (2)   Where an industrial user owns, operates, or occupies properties at
more than one location, separate information submittals shall be made for each
location as may be required by the POTW.
   (B)   Provisions for monitoring.
      (1)   When required by the POTW, the user of any premises serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastewater discharges shall provide suitable
access and the necessary meters, monitoring facilities, and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of
the wastewater. The access shall be in a readily and safely accessible location
and shall be provided in accordance with plans approved by the POTW. The
access, metering and monitoring facilities, and appurtenances shall be provided
and maintained at the user’s expense so as to be safe and accessible at
reasonable times.
      (2)   The POTW shall consider factors such as the volume and strength of
discharge, rate of discharge, quantities of toxic materials in the discharge
and wastewater treatment facility removal capabilities in determining whether
or not access and equipment for monitoring industrial wastewater discharges
shall be required.
      (3)   Where the POTW determines access and equipment for monitoring or
measuring industrial wastewater discharges is not practicable, reliable, or
cost-effective, the POTW may specify alternative methods of determining the
characteristics of the wastewater discharge which will, in the POTW’s
judgement, provide an equitable measurement of the characteristics.
      (4)   The type of equipment, methods, and frequency used for metering,
sampling, and analysis shall be subject to the approval of the POTW. All
monitoring and analytical instrumentation and related equipment shall be
periodically calibrated and maintained by the user at intervals to ensure
accuracy of measurements.
      (5)   When required by the POTW, any industrial user who discharges
wastewaters subject to the requirements of this chapter, shall install a
suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and the measurement of waste. The manholes, when required, shall be
accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the POTW. The manhole shall be installed and maintained by
and at the expense of the industrial user.
   (C)   Determination of wastewater characteristics.
      (1)   Measurements, tests, and analyses of the wastewater characteristics
shall be made in accordance with 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 and amendments thereto.
Where 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for
the pollutant in question, or where the Administrator determines that the 40
C.F.R. pt. 136 sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed by using
validated analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical
procedures including procedures suggested by the POTW or other parties approved
by the Administrator.
      (2)   The tests as are herein specified shall be determined upon
representative samples taken at the control manhole provided for in division
(B)(5) above. In the event that no manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the
sanitary sewer.
      (3)   Sampling methods, locations, times, durations, and frequencies are
to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval of the POTW. The
user shall have the option to use, at his or her own expense, more complete
sampling methods, locations, times, durations, and frequencies than specified
by the POTW.
      (4)   Measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
wastewater required by this chapter shall be performed by a qualified
laboratory approved by the Village Director. When the analyses are required of
a user, the user may make arrangements with the POTW, or any other qualified
laboratory, including that of the user, to perform the analyses.
      (5)   Monitoring of wastewater characteristics necessary for
determination of compliance with applicable pretreatment standards shall be
conducted on the basis of a schedule established by E.P.A. unless more frequent
monitoring is required by the Village Director. The POTW may, in its judgement,
determine that the characteristics of the specific discharge warrant a more
stringent frequency of monitoring and require additional monitoring and
analysis in a permit to discharge.
      (6)   Upon demonstration by any user that the characteristics of the
wastewater discharged by that user are consistent, the POTW may reduce the
established monitoring frequency except in no case shall the frequency of
monitoring be less than semi-annual for the determination of compliance with
pretreatment standards.
      (7)   In determining discharge characteristics, factors such as
continuous or batch, seasonal operation and the information or requirements of
other provisions of this chapter shall be considered by the POTW. The POTW may
obtain wastewater samples as required to verify the consistency of discharge
characteristics.
      (8)   Fees for any given measurement, test, or analyses of wastewater
required by this chapter and performed by the POTW shall be the same for all
users, regardless of the quantity or quality of the discharge and shall reflect
direct and indirect costs. Costs of analyses performed to determine compliance
with pretreatment standards shall be borne directly by the user.
      (9)   Sampling for "daily average" or "daily maximum" shall be 24-hour
flow proportioned composite samples except that a minimum of four grab samples
shall be taken in lieu of a 24-hour flow proportioned composite sample for a
single day for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile
organic compounds. If it is not feasible to obtain a flow-proportioned
composite sample, a time proportioned composite sample or a minimum of four
grab samples may be used in lieu of the flow-proportioned sample if the user
demonstrates to the Village Director that representative samples will be
obtained.
   (D)   Self-monitoring.
      (1)   Any user who discharges wastewater subject to the requirements of
this chapter may be required to provide self-monitoring for determination of
continuing compliance. The frequency of monitoring, including sampling and
reporting, shall be determined by the POTW and specified in a permit to
discharge.
      (2)   The date when a sample is taken, start time, stop time, sample
location, sampler programming information, and persons involved in the sampling
shall be recorded by the user if the user is self-monitoring.
      (3)   Flow measurements shall be taken to record the daily discharge
volume.
      (4)   All analytical results for each calendar month shall be submitted
to the POTW by the fifteenth day of the following month.
      (5)   A user who is performing self-monitoring shall contract with an
independent company to maintain, repair, and calibrate the sampling and flow
measurement equipment and instruments used to monitor that user's discharge.
The maintenance, repair, and calibration shall be performed as necessary so
that monitoring data is accurate and representative, but in no case less
frequently than twice in a calendar year at reasonable intervals. The village
may inspect and test a user's monitoring equipment at reasonable times. The
user shall maintain complete records of equipment maintenance.
      (6)   Users may request not to perform self-monitoring, in which case the
village, at its discretion, may agree to obtain samples using composite flow
proportioned sampling or may contract with an independent firm for the
sampling. The user shall pay a sampling fee to the village to fully reimburse
the village for the sampling, including administrative and overhead costs. If
the village contracts with an independent firm for the sampling, the user shall
fully reimburse the village for amounts paid by the village to the firm. It is
the user’s sole responsibility to provide self-monitoring. The village will use
its own discretion in determining whether or not to take on the burden of self-
monitoring if requested.
      (7)   Samples shall be analyzed at the sole cost of the user. If a user
does its own sampling or causes its samples to be taken, then the user shall
submit the samples to a laboratory, which may be the user’s own laboratory,
approved by the Village Director, for analysis. If the user utilizes its own
laboratory, that user shall send a split sample to an independent laboratory,
at a frequency determined by the POTW, as a quality control check. If a user
does its own sampling and/or analyses, the village may also take and have
analyzed up to four daily composites or up to four grab samples per day for
four days at the sole cost of the user in any calendar month. If the village
takes the samples, the village, at its sole discretion, may analyze the samples
at its own laboratory or contract with an independent laboratory for the
analyses.
   (E)   Reporting requirements.
      (1)   The POTW may require any industrial user to submit periodic reports
which shall include information on the quality and quantity of wastewater and
pollutants discharged to the POTW. The report shall include the volume of
wastewater and concentration of pollutants, and be related to pretreatment
standards as shall be required by the POTW. The names of all persons
responsible for operating and maintaining any pretreatment equipment,
pretreatment process, or responsible for wastewater management at the user’s
facilities shall be listed in the report with a brief description of each
person's duties. The POTW may also require additional information from the
users as to materials or substances which may cause interference or pass-
through.
      (2)   Within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final administrative decision is
made upon a category determination submission under R323.2311(2), whichever is
later. Existing industrial users subject to the categorical pretreatment
standards and currently discharging or scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall
be required to submit a report to the POTW which contains the information
listed in division (E)(4) below.
      (3)   At least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge, new sources,
and sources that become industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical standard, shall be required to submit to the POTW a
report which contains the information listed in divisions (E)(4)(a) through (E)
(4)(e) below. New sources shall also be required to include in this report
information on the method of pretreatment the user intends to use to meet
applicable pretreatment standards. New sources shall give estimates of the
information requested in divisions (E)(4)(d) and (e) below. Industrial users
shall report any changes in the Baseline Monitoring Report to the POTW within
60 days.
      (4)   Informational requirements for submittal of required reports:
         (a)   Identifying information. The user shall submit the name and
address of the facility including the name of the operator and owners;
         (b)   Permits. The user shall submit a list of any environmental
permits held by the facility;
         (c)   Description. The user shall submit a brief description of the
nature, average rate of production, and Standard Industrial Classification of
the operation(s) carried out by the industrial user. This description shall
include a schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the
POTW from the regulated process;
         (d)   Flow measurement. The user shall submit information showing the
measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW
from regulated process streams and other streams as necessary to allow the use
of the combined waste stream formula. The POTW may allow for verifiable
estimates of these flows where justified by cost or feasibility considerations;
         (e)   Measurement of pollutants. The user shall submit the results of
sampling and analysis identifying the nature and concentration of regulated
pollutants from each regulated process. Both daily maximum and average
concentrations shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and sampling shall be performed in accordance with division (C)
above;
         (f)   Certification. The user shall submit a statement, reviewed by an
authorized representative of the user, as defined in division (F) below and
certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether Pretreatment
Standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional
operation and maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet
applicable Pretreatment Standards and requirements; and
         (g)   Compliance schedule. If additional operation and maintenance or
pretreatment will be required to meet Pretreatment Standards, the shortest
feasible schedule by which the user will provide the pretreatment shall be
developed and submitted to the POTW. The completion date in this schedule shall
not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
Pretreatment Standard. The following conditions shall apply to the contents of
the compliance schedule.
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment.
            2.   No increment shall exceed nine months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW including at a minimum whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this
increment, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the user to
return the construction to the established schedule. In no event shall more
than nine months elapse between the progress reports to the POTW.
      (5)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards or in the case of new sources
following the commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit a report
containing the information described in divisions (E)(4)(d) through (E)(4)(f)
above.
      (6)   Any user subject to categorical pretreatment standards, after the
compliance date of the pretreatment standard, shall submit to the POTW during
the months of June and December, unless required more frequently, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent. In
addition, this report shall include a record of measured or estimated average
and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
      (7)   All industrial users shall notify the POTW immediately of all
discharges that could cause problems to the POTW, including any slug
discharges.
      (8)   Significant noncategorical industrial users shall submit to the
POTW at least once every six months (on dates specified by the POTW) a
description of the nature, concentration, and flow of the pollutants required
to be reported by the POTW.
      (9)   The reports required in this section shall be based upon data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, which data is representative of conditions occurring
during the reporting period. All analysis shall be performed in accordance with
division (C) above.
      (10)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user
shall notify the POTW within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. The
user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of the
repeat analysis to the POTW within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation.
      (11)   The village shall notify the user that it is required to submit
reports.
      (12)   Each user that has been notified of its obligation to submit
reports shall file an initial report within 60 days from the date the notice is
served upon the user.
      (13)   Each user, so notified by the Village Director may be required to
file monthly reports by the fifteenth day of the month for the preceding month.
      (14)   If any user subject to categorical limits monitors, in accordance
with approved methods, any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW,
the results of that monitoring shall be included in the periodic compliance
reports.
      (15)   All users shall promptly notify the POTW in advance of any
substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants in its discharge,
including groundwaters purged for remedial action programs, groundwaters
containing pollutants that infiltrate into the sewers, and the hazardous wastes
for which the user has submitted initial notification in accordance with
division (J) below.
   (F)   Signatory requirements. All reports required in this chapter shall be
signed as follows:
      (1)   By a responsible corporate officer, if the user submitting the
reports is a corporation. A responsible corporate officer means:
         (a)   A president, secretary, treasurer, or vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions of the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons, if authority to sign
documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures;
      (2)   By a general partner or proprietor if the user submitting the
reports is a partnership or sole proprietorship respectively;
      (3)   By a duly authorized representative of the individual designated in
this section if:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described
in divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above;
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates, such as the position of general manager, or a position of
equivalent responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the Village Director.
      (4)   If an authorization under division (F)(3) above is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
division (F)(3) above must be submitted to the Village Director prior to or
together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative; and
      (5)   The submission of any report(s) required under a permit to
discharge or any provision of this chapter shall include the following
certification statement as set forth in R323.2310(11): "I certify under penalty
of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction
or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified
personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my
inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons
directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted
is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am
aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information,
including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
   (G)   Notice of exceedance. All users shall promptly notify the village, as
soon as possible, of a discharge which exceeds a limit in this chapter.
   (H)   Notice of significant user status. All users shall notify the village
of a change in discharge which may convert the user into a significant
industrial user. Where a change in discharge may convert the user into a
significant industrial user, the user shall promptly submit an application for
a permit to discharge to the POTW.
   (I)   Emergency or accidental discharges. All users shall report to the POTW
as soon as possible any discharges which are known to exceed the limits
established by this chapter, in a permit to discharge, in any other special
agreement, in a FCPS, or in any other applicable law or regulation.
      (1)   The notice shall be given in advance whenever possible and contain
available information regarding the intended or accidental discharge, volume,
duration, constituents, loading, and concentrations, and any other available
information as may be necessary to determine the impact the discharge may have
on the POTW.
      (2)   The following is the emergency contact point which may be used to
convey the information:
         (a)   Normal office hours - Village Director; and
         (b)   After normal office hours - Village Police Department.
   (J)   Notification regarding wastes which are otherwise hazardous.
      (1)   Any user that discharges to the POTW any substance which, if
disposed of other than by discharge to the POTW, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 C.F.R. § 261 or under the rules promulgated under the Michigan Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, being Public Act 451 of 1994,
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.1101 et seq.("Michigan Rules") shall notify the Village
Director, the U.S.E.P.A. Region V Waste Management Division Director, and the
Chief of the Waste Management Division of the MDNR of the discharge. The notice
shall be given within 180 days after the discharge first occurs. The notice
shall be in writing and shall include the name of the hazardous waste set forth
in 40 C.F.R. § 261 or the state rules and the type of discharge (continuous,
batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of the waste
per calendar month to the POTW, the notice shall also contain the following
information to the extent the information is known and readily available to the
user:
         (a)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
         (b)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of the constituents
in the discharge during that calendar month; and
         (c)   An estimation of the mass of constituents expected to be
discharged during the following twelve months.
      (2)   Notification under this division (J) must be submitted once for
each hazardous waste discharged. Notification under this division (J) is not
required for pollutants already reported under self-monitoring by industrial
users under FCPS reporting requirements. An industrial user is exempt from
notification under this division (J) during a calendar month in which the user
discharges no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous wastes unless the wastes are
acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). In
the case of a new regulation which first regulates a substance as a hazardous
waste after the effective date of this chapter, notification under this
division (J) shall be made within 90 days of the effective date of the
regulation. In any notice submitted under this division (J), the user shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree the user has determined to be
economically practical.
   (K)   Confidentiality. The following confidentiality provisions shall apply.
      (1)   All information and data submitted to the POTW relating to matters
regulated in this chapter are presumed not to be confidential. Information
submitted by a user shall be clearly marked on each page as to the portion or
portions considered by the user to be confidential and accompanied by a written
explanation of why the user considers the information confidential. Mere
marking of the page as “confidential” does not necessarily mean that the
information on that page must be kept confidential.
      (2)   Information furnished to the POTW on the volume or characteristics
of wastewater or pollutants discharged or proposed to be discharged into the
POTW shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction. When requested by the user furnishing information, the portions of
the information submitted which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to
this chapter, the NPDES permit, state disposal system permit, and/or
pretreatment programs; provided, however, all the information shall be
available for use by the state, and any state agency or the village in judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the user furnishing the
information. The village shall notify a user, who has requested and is entitled
to confidentiality for information furnished by the user to the village, that
the village has sent the confidential information to another governmental
agency that has made a written request for it.
      (3)   Where a user has mass based limits as allowed by certain
categorical pretreatment standards on a production basis, the production data
necessary to determine compliance must also be provided by the user to the
village, and be available to the public. Where application of the combined
waste stream formula is necessary to apply categorical pretreatment standards
to a user, the flow measurements and other data used in the calculation must be
provided to the village, and be available to the public.
      (4)   Observations made by POTW inspectors are subject to the
confidentiality provision of this section as if they were in writing if the
user specifies in writing to the village the observations made by the POTW
inspector for which the user seeks confidentiality.
   (L)   Records retention. Any nonresidential user subject to the sampling,
analysis, or reporting requirements of this chapter, including reports under
R323.2310, shall maintain copies of the reports and records pertaining to those
reports. The reports and records shall be retained by the user, and by the
village if the reports and records have been submitted to the village, for at
least three years. This period shall be extended during the course of any
unresolved litigation regarding the discharges of the user or the POTW
pretreatment program or when requested by the Village Director, the State
Director, or U.S.E.P.A. All nonresidential users who have records regarding
their generation, treatment, storage, or disposal of hazardous waste or solid
waste shall maintain the records for the period and make them available to the
village for inspection and copying, subject to the provisions contained in
division (K) above regarding confidential information. The terms HAZARDOUS
WASTE and SOLID WASTE shall have the same definition as provided in the
Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, being Public Act
451 of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.1101 et seq., as amended, and rules promulgated
thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 542.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.36 SPILL PREVENTION.
   (A)   Protection of the POTW. The POTW must be protected against the
uncontrolled discharge of pollutants including any slug discharge. To achieve
this goal, the POTW has adopted a spill prevention program in which the POTW
and industrial or Class III users or users who are storers of hazardous or
toxic materials (as defined in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261 et seq. of the chapter of
Federal Regulations or listed in MDEQ’s Critical Materials Register) shall
cooperate to establish adequate spill prevention control measures.
   (B)   Required implementation of spill prevention. The POTW may require the
submittal and implementation of a spill and slug discharge prevention plan
conforming to applicable state, federal, or local requirements as a stipulation
of any permit issued to any industrial user. A Pollution Incident Prevention
(PIP) Plan approved by MDEQ may be accepted by the POTW. Industrial users with
identified spill prevention needs shall apply for a permit to discharge from
the POTW.
   (C)   Right of access. Employees of the POTW may enter onto the premises of
any industrial user during reasonable hours to inspect for potential of
uncontrolled discharges or for inspection of spill prevention facilities.
Employees of the POTW may enter the premises at any hour during or following
any emergency or suspected spill for purposes of inspection of spill prevention
facilities. The inspection may be announced or unannounced.
   (D)   Maintenance of spill prevention facilities. Spill prevention
facilities shall be maintained in good repair and in operable condition at all
times at the expense of the user.
   (E)   POTW Spill Response Program. The POTW shall prepare a spill response
program including a spill response manual.
   (F)   Evaluation of slug control. The POTW may evaluate each significant
industrial user and other industrial users as necessary, to determine whether
the user needs a plan to control slug discharges. If the POTW decides that a
slug control plan is needed, the plan shall contain, at a minimum, the
following elements:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug discharges,
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §§
51.30 and
51.31 with procedures to follow-up, including written notification within five
days; and
      (4)   If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental
spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site
runoff; worker training, building containment structures or equipment, measures
for containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures
and equipment for emergency response.
   (G)   Notification of accidental discharges. In the case of accidental
discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to inform the POTW immediately,
including any slug discharges by the user. Where the information is given
orally, a written follow-up report thereof shall be filed by the user with the
POTW within five days.
(Prior Code, § 542.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.37 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Imposition of surcharges.
      (1)   Any users discharging waters or wastes conforming to the
limitations of §§
51.30 through
51.32, and exceeding only the limitations of this section regarding biological
oxygen demand (B.O.D.), suspended solids (S.S.), and phosphorous (P), may be
allowed, at the discretion of the POTW, to discharge the waste into a sanitary
sewer. The users shall be charged for the treatment of extra-strength
wastewater according to the following formula: Total Charges = (M1)V+
(M2)B.O.D.+(M3)S.S.+(M4)P+Meter Charge
      (2)   Where:
         (a)   V = Volume of waste in million gallons;
         (b)   B.O.D. = Pounds of B.O.D. in excess of the local limit;
         (c)   S.S. = Pounds of suspended solids in excess of the local limit;
         (d)   P = Pounds of total phosphorus in excess of the local limit; and
         (e)   Meter Charge = As provided for in the rate resolution as adopted
by the Village Council.
      (3)   The multiplying constants (M1, M2, M3, M4) shall be calculated
annually.
      (4)   Billings will be rendered on a quarterly basis. The volume will be
actual as metered. Loadings of B.O.D., S.S., and P will be actual as calculated
from the analysis taken during the preceding month(s).
   (B)   Monitoring, reporting, and billing. Users shall be required to submit
regular reports to the POTW relative to the discharge of their waste. The
reports shall contain the information as strength of B.O.D., S.S., P, pH,
volume discharged, and other data that might be required by the POTW. This data
may be used for the basis for billing under the above formula; however, the
POTW at their discretion, may conduct analysis of representative samples taken
by the POTW as means of verifying the results as submitted, and the POTW may
use their own results of analysis for billing purposes. The type of equipment,
methods, and frequency used for metering, sampling, and analysis shall be
subject to approval of the POTW.
   (C)   Pretreatment required. When plant loadings approach the design
capacity of the POTW to receive and treat B.O.D., S.S., and P, pretreatment may
be required of industrial users unless additional capacity is added to the
POTW.
(Prior Code, § 542.12)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.50 VILLAGE DIRECTOR.
   The Village Director is hereby empowered to, either directly or through
others:
   (A)   Supervise the implementation and enforcement of this chapter;
   (B)   Institute administrative actions against all users violating this
chapter and, with the Village Attorney, institute necessary legal proceedings
to prosecute violations of this chapter and compel the prevention and abatement
of violations of this chapter, any regulations promulgated thereunder or
nuisances arising therefrom;
   (C)   Review the plans for pretreatment equipment, submitted by users;
   (D)   Conduct inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered pretreatment equipment to determine
compliance with provisions of this chapter;
   (E)   Investigate complaints of violations of this chapter, conduct
inspections, make observations of discharges, and record any investigations,
complaints, inspections, and observations;
   (F)   Issue orders requiring compliance with this chapter;
   (G)   Impose civil penalties for violations of this chapter;
   (H)   Recommend to the Village Attorney the initiation of proceedings in a
court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with the provisions of
this chapter or any determination or order which may be promulgated or issued
pursuant to this chapter; and
   (I)   Perform other actions, including emergency suspension of service,
necessary or advisable for the management and operation of the POTW and the
enforcement of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 542.13)
§ 51.51 AUTHORITY TO SET FEES; CHARGES; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Village Council shall by resolution establish fees, charges, and
penalties appropriate to provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The village may recover any costs associated with the administration,
operation, and/or enforcement of provisions of this chapter from the users of
the POTW.
   (C)   Fees for PTDS shall be collected from the applicant at the time
application is made.
   (D)   Fees and charges for services may be collected in advance from the
user requesting services.
   (E)   All fees and charges payable under the provisions of this chapter
shall be immediately due and payable upon receipt of notice of the fees, and
shall be paid to the village. Fees and charges unpaid for a period of 30 days
from the date of the invoice or other notice of the charges shall accrue
interest as may be established from time to time by the village. Failure to pay
may result in a revocation of a PTD.
(Prior Code, § 542.14)
§ 51.52 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Established procedures. The POTW shall establish procedures to be
followed in the event of noncompliance, including notice of violation,
establishing compliance schedules, show cause hearings, and proceedings. The
procedures shall be in accordance with this chapter, the POTW's industrial
pretreatment program administrative compliance guidance manual, and applicable
state and federal regulations.
   (B)   Notice of violations. Whenever the POTW finds any user has violated or
is violating this chapter, PTD, or any limitation or condition for compliance,
the POTW may serve the person a written notice stating the nature of the
violation. Within the time stipulated in the notice, a plan for corrective
action shall be submitted to the POTW by the user in accordance with the POTW’s
industrial pretreatment program administrative compliance guidance manual.
   (C)   Orders to users.
      (1)   Generally. Whenever the Village Director has determined that any
user has violated this chapter or other applicable laws or regulations which
the village is authorized to enforce, the Village Director may issue an order
to take actions deemed appropriate by the Village Director under the
circumstances.
      (2)   Types of orders. The following types of orders may be issued by the
Village Director:
         (a)   Compliance order. An administrative order directing a user to
achieve or restore compliance by a date specified in the order;
         (b)   Consent order. An administrative order embodying a legally
enforceable agreement between the POTW and a user designed to restore the user
to compliance status;
         (c)   Cease and desist order. An administrative order directing a user
to halt illegal or unauthorized discharges; and
         (d)   Show cause order. An administrative order directing a user to
appear before the Village Director or a hearing officer in order to explain its
noncompliance and show cause why more severe enforcement actions should not be
taken.
      (3)   Content of orders. Any order issued by the Village Director shall
contain the facts and reasons and grounds for its issuance, and the remedial
action ordered as well as the time within which the action shall be taken. No
order shall be deemed insufficient, however, for inconsequential errors and
omissions in the facts and reasons and ground for the order. If any user deems
the content of the order to contain insufficient information, it may ask the
Village Director for additional information. Multiple orders may be issued
simultaneously or in combination as a single order by the Village Director with
respect to a single user.
   (D)   Civil violations.
      (1)   Civil citations. The Village Director may issue a civil citation
with or without an order against any user deemed to be in violation of this
chapter and determine the civil administrative penalty, if any, to be imposed
consistent with the provisions of division (H) below.
      (2)   Service. The citation shall be served upon the user either by
personal delivery or by first-class mail addressed to the user, except that an
immediate cease and desist order may be written or oral, and may be served by
telephone.
      (3)   Content of citation. The citation shall specify the following:
         (a)   Date and time of issuance;
         (b)   Date(s), time(s), and place(s) of violation, the nature of the
violation, the substances discharged, where ascertainable, and the volume of
the discharge, where applicable;
         (c)   Reference to the pertinent section of this chapter under which
the violation is charged;
         (d)   Reference to the pertinent section of this chapter establishing
penalties for the violation;
         (e)   The amount of the penalty, if any; and
         (f)   The right of the alleged violator to present to the Village
Director written explanations, information, or other materials in answer to the
citation, including any defenses.
      (4)   Notice to municipality. Any citation issued pursuant to this
section upon any user within the corporate limits of any contract municipality
shall be served upon the municipality in the manner provided by division (D)(2)
above and the municipality shall be given notice, also in the manner provided
in division (D)(2) above of all meetings, hearings, and proceedings
subsequently conducted pursuant to the citation.
   (E)   Informal conference. An informal conference with the Village Director
may be requested, in writing, by any user deeming itself aggrieved by any
notice of violation, or other administrative enforcement action by the Village
Director within five calendar days after the notice of the violation or notice
of other enforcement action has been served upon the user. The purposes of the
informal conference are to discuss the matter by which the user deems itself
aggrieved and to attempt to reach a settlement of the matter agreeable to the
user and the village. The Village Director is not required to reach any
conclusion or provide a decision as a result of an informal conference. If such
a request is received, the Village Director shall hold the informal conference
within ten calendar days of receipt of the request. A user is not required to
request or participate in an informal conference as a pre-condition to
requesting and participating in a hearing under division (G) below, nor is a
user required to request or participate in a hearing under division (G) below,
as a precondition to requesting and participating in an informal conference. If
a hearing is held under division (G) below, the hearing is not an appeal from
an informal conference.
   (F)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The Village Director may order any user who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to enter the POTW to show cause why proposed enforcement
action shall not be taken.
         (a)   This shall be accomplished by issuance of a written order as
permitted by division (C)(2)(d) above specifying the time and place of the
hearing, the nature of the violation, reasons for taking the proposed action,
the proposed enforcement action and directing the user to appear before the
village to show cause why the proposed action should not be taken.
         (b)   Notice of hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of the user.
      (2)   The Village Director may designate a hearing officer to:
         (a)   Issue notices regarding attendance and testimony of witnesses
and production of evidence;
         (b)   Take evidence; and
         (c)   Transmit a report and transcript of the hearing together with
evidence and recommendations to the Village Director.
      (3)   All testimony must be given under oath and recorded verbatim.
      (4)   After reviewing the transcripts and evidence, the Village Director
may issue an order to the user requiring that specific corrective action be
taken and specifying a time schedule for any such action. Further orders and
directions may be issued by the Village Director as the Village Director shall
deem appropriate.
   (G)   Violation hearing.
      (1)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   A hearing before a hearing officer may be requested, in writing,
by any user deeming itself aggrieved by any notice of violation, or other
enforcement action within 30 calendar days after the notice of violation or
other enforcement action has been served upon the user. If an informal
conference has not been requested by the user, the request for a hearing shall
be made within 15 days of service of the notice or citation.
         (b)   A hearing fee of $250 must accompany any request for a hearing
filed under this division (G)(1).
         (c)   If a hearing is not demanded within the time period provided
herein, the action taken by the Village Director shall be deemed final. In the
event the hearing is demanded, the action shall be suspended until the hearing
is completed; provided, however, that cease and desist orders issued pursuant
to this chapter shall not be suspended.
      (2)   Time. The hearing shall be promptly scheduled to commence at the
earliest practicable date, but not later than 30 days after receipt of the
request unless extended by mutual written agreement.
      (3)   Content for request for hearing. Any written request for a hearing
shall be signed by the user requesting the hearing or by a duly authorized
officer, agent, or attorney, shall be directed to the Village Director, and
shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the user requesting the hearing;
         (b)   A copy of the notice of violation, order, or the notice of any
surcharge, penalty, or action on a PTD; and
         (c)   A statement of the defenses and issues to be raised at the
hearing.
      (4)   Selection of hearing officer. The Village Manager shall appoint the
hearing officer who shall be a person who shall not be the Village Director or
any person who shall be a direct subordinate of the Village Director.
      (5)   Procedure for conduct of hearing. Hearings on any notice of
violation, order, notice of surcharge, penalty, or action on a permit issued by
the Village Director shall be conducted under the procedure set forth in this
division (G)(5).
         (a)   Rules. Hearings shall be informal and need not be conducted
according to the strict technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses.
         (b)   Oral evidence. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.
         (c)   Hearsay evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose
of supplementing or explaining any direct evidence.
         (d)   Admissibility of evidence. Any relevant evidence shall be
admitted if it is the type of evidence upon which responsible persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs.
         (e)   Exclusion of evidence. Irrelevant and unduly repetitious
evidence shall be excluded.
         (f)   Rights of parties. At the hearing, each party shall have the
following rights:
            1.   To call and examine witnesses on any matter relevant to the
issues of the hearing;
            2.   To introduce documentary and physical evidence;
            3.   To cross-examine opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to
the issues of the hearing;
            4.   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called
him or her to testify;
            5.   To rebut adverse evidence; and
            6.   To representation of his or her choice at his or her sole
expense.
         (g)   What may be noticed. In reaching a decision, official notice may
be taken either before or after submission of the case for decision of any fact
which may be judicially noticed by the courts of this state.
         (h)   Inspection of the premises. The hearing officer may inspect any
building or premises involved in the hearing.
         (i)   Record. A record of the proceedings shall be made by tape
recording. A transcript of the proceedings shall be made available to all
parties upon request and upon payment by the requesting party of the costs of
transcription.
      (6)   Form of decision; decision of Village Manager. The hearing officer
shall prepare a written recommendation which shall contain proposed findings of
fact, a proposed decision on each of the points raised by the user, and an
explanation of the reasons for the proposed decision. The Village Manger shall
review same and shall issue a final written decision on the matter within 15
days of receipt of the recommendation. A copy of the decision of the Village
Manager shall be delivered personally or sent by first-class mail to the user.
      (7)   Judicial review. Appeals of the decision of the Village Manager
shall be made to a court of competent jurisdiction as provided by law.
      (8)   Costs. If the Village Director's action is upheld by the Village
Manager, then the user shall pay to the village all of the costs incurred by
the village in holding the hearing, including, but not limited to, the fee or
salary of the hearing officer, transcription and recording costs, and all of
the village's costs of enforcement, including, but not limited to, the
village's sampling and analytical costs. If the Village Director's action is
partially upheld or is reversed, the Village Manager may apportion those costs
between the village and the user in an equitable manner. Under the first two
sentences of this division (G)(8), the user who has paid a $250 hearing fee
shall receive a credit for that amount but no refund of any part of the $250
hearing fee shall be given. The user's liability of costs under this division
(G)(8), plus fines and penalties imposed on the user, shall not exceed the
maximum aggregate fines that could be imposed on the user under division (H)(7)
below.
   (H)   Violations, penalties, and remedies.
      (1)   Misdemeanors. Violations related to the following actions shall be
treated as misdemeanors.
         (a)   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the POTW.
         (b)   Any person who at the time of a violation knew or should have
known that a pollutant or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of
this chapter, or contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision, or
determination promulgated, issued, or made by the POTW under this chapter.
         (c)   Any person who intentionally makes a false statement,
representation, or certification in an application for, or form pertaining to a
permit, or in a notice, report, or required elsewhere in this chapter, or in
any other correspondence or communication, written or oral, with the POTW
regarding matters regulated by this chapter.
         (d)   Any person who intentionally falsifies, tampers with, or renders
inaccurate any sampling or monitoring device or record required to be
maintained by this chapter.
      (2)   Municipal civil infractions. All violations of this chapter, other
than those violations related to the actions as specified in division (H)(1)
above, shall be considered municipal civil infractions. Municipal civil
infractions are punishable as provided for in
Chapter 30. In addition, the village shall have the right to seek restitution
for the cost of repair or replacement of damage to the POTW caused by the
person or user charged with violating any of the provisions of this chapter, a
permit to discharge or any order as issued under this chapter.
      (3)   Continuing offense. Each and every day, or portion thereof, of any
violation of this chapter by any user shall constitute a separate and new
violation by the user and shall be punishable by the imposition of
administrative and/or civil penalties as provided in this chapter.
      (4)   Violation constitutes a public nuisance. Violations of this
chapter, a permit to discharge, or any order as provided for in division (C)
above are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
      (5)   Civil judicial relief. The Village Director is hereby empowered,
with the Village Attorney, to institute legal proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction for the abatement of any nuisance, and to seek relief
for violations of this chapter, a permit to discharge, or any order as provided
for in division (C) above. The Village Director may seek temporary or permanent
injunctive relief damages, penalties, costs, and any other relief as a court
may order.
      (6)   Judicial civil penalties. In any action brought by the village
against any person or user for a violation of this chapter, a permit to
discharge or any order as provided for in division (C) above, a court of
competent jurisdiction may impose, in addition to the relief permitted under
division (H)(5) above, a civil penalty.
      (7)   Cumulative remedies. The imposition of a single penalty, fine,
order, damage, or surcharge upon a user for a violation of this chapter, a
permit to discharge, or any order issued under this chapter shall not preclude
the imposition by the village or a court of competent jurisdiction of a
combination of any or all of the sanctions and remedies or additional sanctions
and remedies with respect to the same violation, consistent with applicable
statutory limitations on penalty amounts. A citation and prosecution of a
municipal civil infractions action against a user shall not be dependent upon
or held in abeyance during any civil, judicial, or village administrative
proceeding, conference, or hearing regarding the user.
   (I)   Publication of significant violators. The POTW shall publish, once per
year in the largest daily newspaper in the village, a public notice of
categorical industrial users which, at any time during the previous 12 months
were in significant noncompliance of federal, state, or village pretreatment
standards or requirements, as defined in §
51.02.
   (J)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A user shall have an affirmative defense in any action brought
against it alleging a violation of this chapter where the user can demonstrate
that:
         (a)   It did not know or have reason to know that its discharge alone
or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources would cause
pass-through or interference;
         (b)   A local limit designed to prevent pass-through or interference
was developed for each pollutant in the user's discharge that caused pass-
through or interference, and the user was in compliance with the limit directly
prior to and during the pass-through or interference; or
         (c)   If a local limit designed to prevent pass-through or
interference has not been developed for the pollutants which caused the pass-
through or interference, the user's discharge prior to and during the pass-
through or interference did not substantially change in nature or constituents
from the user's prior discharge activity when the POTW was regularly in
compliance with the POTW’s NPDES permit requirements and, in the case of
interference, applicable requirements for sewage sludge use or disposal.
      (2)   Industrial dischargers do not have an affirmative defense for the
discharge of pollutants that result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
(Prior Code, § 542.15)
§ 51.53 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (A)   The fees charged for wastewater service as provided for by this
chapter are hereby recognized to constitute a lien on the premises receiving
the service. This lien shall become effective immediately upon providing
wastewater service to the premises but shall be not enforceable for more than
three years after it becomes effective. Whenever any such fine or charge
against any property shall be delinquent for three months, the village
officials in charge of the collection thereof may certify to the tax assessing
officer of the village the fact of the delinquency, whereupon the charge shall
be entered upon the next roll as a charge against the premises and shall be
collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as general village
taxes against the premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced. Nothing
in this section, however, shall be deemed to prevent the village from suing in
a court of law to collect the amount due it for wastewater service charges as
provided in division (C) below. In addition to the other remedies provided in
this section, the village shall have the right to shut off and discontinue the
supply of water service to any premises for the nonpayment of wastewater
service fees or charges when due in accordance with the procedure established
in division (B) below.
   (B)   If a fee or charge for wastewater service prescribed by this chapter
is not paid within 30 days after the billing thereof, and after the customer
has been given notice and an opportunity to be heard as provided for in §
51.52(G), all water service may be shut off and discontinued to the customer
owing or liable for the charge. Water service shut off pursuant to this section
shall not be restored until all sums due and owing have been paid in full,
including a collection fee of $10 and appropriate security deposits as
prescribed by resolution of the Village Council.
   (C)   At its option, the village may, in addition to the remedies above, in
its corporate name, bring suit in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
collection of any wastewater service fee or charge which, 30 days after the
billing thereof, has not been paid. The production of the meter record or costs
record and/or invoice for fees shall be prima facie evidence of the liability
to pay the amount therein shown to be due.
(Prior Code, § 542.16)
§ 51.54 SAVING CLAUSE.
   A prosecution which is pending on the effective date of this chapter and
which arose from a violation of an ordinance repealed by this chapter, or a
prosecution which is started within one year after the effective date of this
chapter arising from a violation of an ordinance repealed by this chapter and
which was committed prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall be tried
and determined exactly as if the ordinance had not been repealed.
(Prior Code, § 542.17)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER RATES
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Operation and maintenance
Rates and Charges
   
52.15   Sewer usage charge
   
52.16   Special rates
   
52.17   Billing
   
52.18   Enforcement
   
52.19   Notice; hearing
   
52.20   Sewer extension capital cost
   
52.21   Free service prohibited
   
52.22   Estimated rates
   
52.23   Operating year
Revenues
   
52.35   Revenues; accounts
   
52.36   Fund transfers
   
52.37   Investments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary, for the public
health, safety, and welfare of the village, that the Eastern Calhoun County
Sanitary Sewer System No. 5 (Village of Homer) be operated by the village as
lessee of the county and the County Department of Public Works as county agency
under Public Act 185 of 1957, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.731 through 123.786, as
amended, on a public utility rate basis in accordance with the provisions of
Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 544.01)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REVENUES and NET REVENUES. The meanings as defined in M.C.L.A. § 141.103, as
amended.
   THE SYSTEM. The complete Eastern Calhoun County Sanitary Sewer System No. 5
(Village of Homer), including all sewers, pumps, lift stations, treatment
facilities, and all other facilities used or useful in the collection,
treatment, and disposal of domestic, commercial, or industrial wastes,
including all appurtenances thereto and including all extensions and
improvements thereto, which may hereafter be acquired.
(Prior Code, § 544.02)
§ 52.03 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The operation and maintenance of the System shall be under the supervision
and control of the County Department of Public Works, subject to the terms of
the contract dated 9-12-1977 between the county and the village. Pursuant to
the terms of the contract, the village has retained the exclusive right to
establish, maintain, and collect rates and charges for sewer collection and
disposal service and in the capacity the Village Council may employ the person
or persons in the capacity or capacities as it deems advisable and may make the
rules, orders, and regulations as it deems advisable and necessary to assure
the efficient establishment, maintenance, and collection of the rates and
charges.
(Prior Code, § 544.03)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 SEWER USAGE CHARGE.
   (A)   A ready-to-serve charge per premises per quarter as noted in
underlying chart. PREMISES is defined as each residential unit and each
commercial or industrial facility. If any premises has more than one meter, a
ready-to-serve charge shall be assessed on each meter.
 
Charge 2021 Charge 2022 Charge 2023 Charge 2024 Charge 2025
$66.00      $67.00      $68.00      $69.00      $71.00
 
   (B)   In addition, a user fee for each 1,000 gallons of water utilized per
quarter as noted in the underlying chart (based on the water meter reading, or
if there is no water meter, based on the average water usage for that size of
family or type of use within the village).
 
Per 1,000 2021 Per 1,000 2022 Per 1,000 2023 Per 1,000 2024 Per 1,000 2025
$3.50          $3.60          $3.70          $3.80          $3.90
 
   (C)   The sewer use charges shall be reviewed annually by the Village
Council.
(Prior Code, § 544.04) (Ord. 2016-001, passed 3-7-2016; Am. Ord. -, passed 6-5-
2017; Am. Ord. 2021-001, passed 4-12-2021)
§ 52.16 SPECIAL RATES.
   For miscellaneous or special service for which a special rate shall be
established, the rate shall be fixed by resolution of the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 544.04)
§ 52.17 BILLING.
   Bills will be rendered quarterly on March 1, June 1, September 1, and
December 1, payable without penalty within 30 days after the date thereon.
Payments received after the period shall bear a penalty of 10% of the amount of
the bill.
(Prior Code, § 544.04)
§ 52.18 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The charges for service which are, under the provisions of Public Act
94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as amended, made a lien on all
premises served thereby unless notice is given that a tenant is responsible,
are hereby recognized to constitute the lien, and whenever any such charges
against any piece of property shall be delinquent for six months, the village
official or officials in charge of the collection thereof shall certify
annually, on March 1 of each year, to the tax assessing office of the village
the facts of the delinquency, whereupon the charges shall be by him or her
entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against the premises and shall be
collected and the lien thereof enforced, in the same manner as general village
taxes against the premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced;
provided, however, that where notice is given that a tenant is responsible for
the charges and service as provided by Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being
M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as amended, no further service shall be rendered the
premises until a cash deposit of $23 shall have been made as security for
payment of the charges and service.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, the village shall have the right to shut
off sewer service to any premises for which charges for sewer service are more
than three months delinquent after notice and a hearing as provided in §
52.19, and the service shall not be reestablished until all delinquent charges
and penalties and a turn-on charge, as specified by resolution of the Village
Council, have been paid. Further, the charges and penalties may be recovered by
the village by court action.
(Prior Code, § 544.04)
§ 52.19 NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of intent to terminate sewer service shall be mailed to the
owner/occupant of the premises. The notice shall include the following:
      (1)   Number of months delinquent and amount owing;
      (2)   Intent of village to terminate service; and
      (3)   Owner's/occupant's right to appeal.
   (B)   Any person receiving notice of intent to terminate sewer service shall
have the right of appeal to the Village Manager. The appeals shall be made by
filing with the Village Clerk, within 14 days after notice has been mailed, a
written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The sewer
shall not be shut off while an appeal is pending. At the appeal hearing,
testimony may be given and evidence may be presented. After the hearing, the
Village Manager shall make a determination of facts and recommendation for
consideration by the Village Council at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
The Village Council shall make a final determination on the matter.
(Prior Code, § 544.04)
§ 52.20 SEWER EXTENSION CAPITAL COST.
   (A)   Location. The sewer facility in the nature of a sanitary sewer
extension to serve land described in Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance and
made a part herein, to be constructed in the area commonly known as the
Petredean/Swope Development, shall be known and described for the purpose of
this section as the Phase I Petredean/Swope Development Sewer Extension.
   (B)   Intent. The charge provided for in this section is intended to
constitute a contribution to the capital cost of construction of the Phase I
Petredean/Swope Development Sewer Extension. The provisions herein are not
intended to eliminate other charges provided for in this chapter or elsewhere
in this code, except for the usual hook-up fee. The usual hook-up fee shall be
waived because the construction includes tap-in lines to each of the lots
located in the Phase I Petredean/Swope Development Sewer Extension.
   (C)   Contribution by users. The area set forth in Exhibit A of the
ordinance codified herein is specially benefitted by the Phase I Petredean/
Swope Development Sewer Extension, and the users therein should contribute to
the capital cost of the extension. The users shall be responsible for paying
five-sixths of the total cost.
   (D)   Cost of construction. The total estimated cost of the Phase I
Petredean/Swope Development Sewer Extension is $23,000, and the capacity of the
sewer facility is determined as ten taps, whereby the cost of each tap in 1994
dollars is $2,300.
   (E)   Capital cost contribution. A direct contribution to the capital cost
of the Phase I Petredean/Swope Development Sewer Extension shall be made by the
owners of each of the lots benefited thereby as follows: The charge provided
for in this section is a direct contribution to the capital cost of the Phase I
Petredean/Swope Development Sewer Extension. Except for the usual hook-up fee,
this charge is not in lieu of, nor is it intended to eliminate, any other
charges provided for in this chapter including, but not limited to, any
consumption charge, service charge, user charge, debt service charge, or permit
fee. Before any permit shall be issued to the lots within the Phase I
Petredean/Swope Development Sewer Extension, the applicant shall pay to the
village, in addition to other charges provided for in this chapter or other
chapters, the sum of $1,917, in cash, for each lot, as a direct contribution to
the cost of the improvement.
   (F)   Surplus funds. Any charges received in excess of the actual capital
cost of the Phase I Petredean/Swope Development Sewer Extension shall be
deposited into the Sewer Fund.
(Prior Code, § 544.05)
§ 52.21 FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No free service shall be furnished by the System to any person, firm, or
corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(Prior Code, § 544.06)
§ 52.22 ESTIMATED RATES.
   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for the
payment of the expenses of administration and operation, the expenses for
maintenance of the System as are necessary to preserve the same in good repair
and working order, to provide for the payment of the contractual obligations of
the village to the county pursuant to the aforesaid contract between the county
and the village as the same become due, and to provide for any other
expenditures and funds for the System as this code may require. The rates shall
be fixed and revised from time to time as may be necessary to produce these
amounts.
(Prior Code, § 544.07)
§ 52.23 OPERATING YEAR.
   The System shall be operated on the basis of an operating year commencing on
January 1 and ending on December 31 next following.
(Prior Code, § 544.08)
REVENUES
§ 52.35 REVENUES; ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Generally. The revenues of the System shall be set aside, as
collected, and deposited in a separate depositary account in County National
Bank, Homer, Michigan, a bank duly qualified to do business in the state, in an
account to be designated Pooled Investments Account, and the revenues so
deposited shall be transferred from the Pooled Investments Account periodically
in the manner and at the times hereafter specified.
   (B)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. Out of the revenues in the Pooled
Investments Account there shall be first set aside quarterly into a depositary
account, designated Operation and Maintenance Fund, a sum sufficient to provide
for the payment of the next quarter's current expenses of administration and
operation of the System and the current expenses for the maintenance thereof as
may be necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order.
   (C)   Contract Payment Fund. There shall next be established and maintained
a depositary account, to be designated Contract Payment Fund, which shall be
used solely for the payment of the village's obligations to the county pursuant
to the aforesaid contract. There shall be deposited in the Fund quarterly,
after requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund have been met, the
sums as shall be necessary to pay the contractual obligations when due. Should
the revenues of the System prove insufficient for this purpose, the revenues
may be supplemented by any other funds of the village legally available for the
purpose.
   (D)   Replacement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained a
depositary account, designated Replacement Fund, which shall be used solely for
the purpose of making major repairs and replacements to the System if needed.
There shall be set aside into the Fund, after provision has been made for the
Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Contract Payment Fund, the revenues as
the Village Council shall deem necessary for this purpose.
   (E)   Improvement Fund. There shall next be established and maintained an
Improvement Fund for the purpose of making improvements, extensions, and
enlargements to the System. There shall be deposited into the Fund, after
providing for the foregoing Fund, the revenues as the Village Council shall
determine.
   (F)   Surplus monies. Monies remaining in the Pooled Investments Account at
the end of any operating year, after full satisfaction of the requirements of
the foregoing funds, may, at the option of the Village Council, be transferred
to the Improvement Fund or used in connection with any other project of the
village reasonably related to purposes of the System.
   (G)   Bank accounts. All monies belonging to any of the foregoing funds or
accounts may be kept in one bank account, in which event the monies shall be
allocated on the books and records of the village within this single bank
account, in the manner above set forth.
(Prior Code, § 544.09)
§ 52.36 FUND TRANSFERS.
   In the event the monies in the Pooled Investments Account are insufficient
to provide for the current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund,
any monies and/or securities in other funds of the District, except sums in the
Contract Payment Fund derived from tax levies, shall be transferred to the
Operation and Maintenance Fund, to the extent of any deficit therein.
(Prior Code, § 544.10)
§ 52.37 INVESTMENTS.
   Monies in any fund or account established by the provisions of this chapter
may be invested in obligations of the United States of America in the manner
and subject to the limitations provided in Public Act 94 of 1933, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 through 141.138, as amended. In the event the investments
are made, the securities representing the same shall be kept on deposit with
the bank or trust company having on deposit the fund or funds from which the
purchase was made. Income received from the investments shall be credited to
the fund from which the investments were made.
(Prior Code, § 544.11)
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Findings and objectives
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Performance standards
   
53.05   Notification of spills
   
53.06   Enforcement
   
53.07   Injunctive relief
   
53.08   Violation deemed a public nuisance
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of village residents, and to protect property values, quality of life
and natural systems relating to storm water runoff control and management. The
Village Council finds it is a matter of public concern and benefit to protect
water bodies and properties within the village, and to reduce the future need
for public expenditures relating to flooding, water quality, and storm water
system maintenance. Both the quality and quantity of storm water runoff are a
matter of public concern. In addition to the requirements below, a developer
shall comply with the village requirements pertaining to site plan approval and
building permit approval.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 53.02 FINDINGS AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The Village Council finds that land changes and development can alter
the hydraulic pathway of rainfall and snow melt among interception,
evapotranspiration, groundwater infiltration and surface water runoff. The
cumulative effect of increasing land cover, storm water volumes and
rates of flow can increase the risks of flooding, stream bank instability,
sediment transport and sediment deposition. When exposed to natural
precipitation, human activities can cause waterborne transport of pollutants,
such as lawn chemicals, roadway salts, motor oils, trash, soils and chemicals
of all kinds, to be carried into our lakes, streams, groundwater and drinking
water supplies. The implementation of best management practices (BMPs) to
remove pollutants and mimic natural hydrology have proven to be effective in
reducing the harmful impacts of land change and development.
   (B)   The Village Council also finds that storm water regulation and
management is a matter of public health, safety and welfare because:
      (1)   Water bodies, roadways, structures and other property within and
downstream of the village are at times subjected to flooding.
      (2)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public, and
is also a danger to the natural resources of the village and the region.
      (3)   Changes in land use alter the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased storm water runoff rates and volumes, which further
result in increased flooding, increased stream channel erosion, and increased
sediment transport and deposition.
      (4)   Storm water runoff produced by changes in land use contributes to
increased quantities of waterborne pollutants.
   (C)   Meeting the performance standards may constitute exceptional
challenges when contemplating redevelopment of existing sites. However, to be
consistent with the goals of this policy, redevelopment is also generally
expected to result in increased environmental protection, whenever the overall
site is not currently performing to these standards. Therefore, in determining
whether to grant a variance and the conditions to impose, for a reconstruction
project the village shall be guided by seeking a measurable improvement over
existing conditions for water quality or water volume or both.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section unless the context
in which they are used specifically indicates otherwise.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). A practice or combination of practices and
design criteria that comply with the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality's Guidebook of Best Management Practices for Michigan Watersheds, or
equivalent practices and design criteria that accomplish the purposes of this
chapter (including but not limited to, minimizing storm water, and preventing
the discharge of pollutants into storm water), as determined by the Village
Engineer and, when applicable, the standards of the Calhoun County Drain
Commissioner.
   DETENTION BASIN. A structure or facility, natural or artificial, that stores
storm water on a temporary basis and releases it at a predetermined rate. A
DETENTION BASIN may drain completely after a storm event, or it may be a pond
with a fixed minimum water elevation between runoff events.
   DISCHARGE. The rate of flow or volume of water passing a given point,
expressed as cubic feet per second.
   DISTURBED AREA. An area of land subject to the removal of vegetative cover
and/or earthmoving activities.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All facilities, areas and structures that serve to convey,
store or receive storm water, either on a temporary or permanent basis.
   DRAINAGE WAY. A natural or artificial facility, area or structure that
conveys or transports storm water runoff from one location to a different
location.
   EARTH CHANGE. Any human activity that removes ground cover, changes the
slope or contours of the land, or exposes the soil surface to the actions of
wind and rain. EARTH CHANGE includes, but is not limited to, any excavating,
surface grading, filling, landscaping, or removal of vegetative roots.
   EROSION. The removal of soil particles from the land by the action of water,
wind, ice or other geological agents.
   INFILTRATION. The percolation and movement of water downward into and
through the soil column. The rate of this movement is expressed in inches per
hour.
   GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling and stockpiling of soil, or any
combination thereof, and the land in its excavated or filled condition.
   OFF-SITE FACILITY. Any potion of the storm water management system located
off the development site that it serves.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD. That water occupation adjacent to a body of water
that results from a storm event having a 1% probability of occurrence in any
given year. Thus, a 50-year storm has a 2% probability, a ten-year storm, a 10%
probability, and the like.
   PRIMARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Facilities, structures and areas that convey, store
or receive runoff from storms up to a ten-year frequency.
   RECEIVING BODY OF WATER. Any watercourse or wetland into which surface
waters are directed, either naturally or artificially.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  The individual, corporation or other business entity
listed as owner of the property on the records filed with the Village
Treasurer; the individual, corporation or other business entity whose name
appears on the water bill for the property; or the individual, corporation or
other business entity leasing or otherwise occupying the property.
   RETENTION BASIN. A holding area for storm water, either natural or
constructed, that does not have a positive outlet. Water is removed from
retention basins through infiltration and/or evaporation processes, and may or
may not have a permanent pool of water.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation that does not infiltrate or percolate
into the ground, but rather moves over the land, eventually reaching a body of
water, wetland or low area.
   SECONDARY DRAINAGE SYSTEMS. Facilities, structures and areas that convey,
store or receive runoff from storms up to a 100-year frequency without causing
serious damage to adjacent properties.
   SEDIMENT. Any solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has
been moved from the site of origin by erosion, is being transported by water,
is in suspension in water, or has been deposited in a body of water, wetland or
floodplain.
   SITE.  Any tract, lot, parcel of land. or combination of tracts, lots or
parcels, that compose an area proposed for development and/or earth change.
   SOIL EROSION.  The stripping of soil and weathered rock from land, creating
sediment for  transportation by water, wind or ice, and enabling formation of
new sedimentary deposits.
   STORM WATER FACILITY.  Methods, structures, BMPs, areas or related items
that are used to control, store, receive, infiltrate or convey runoff.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The runoff and drainage of precipitation resulting from
rainfall, snow melt or other natural event or process.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN.  Maps and written information that describe the
way in which storm water will be controlled, both during and after
construction.
   WATERCOURSE. Any waterway or other body of water having reasonably well
defined banks, including rivers, streams, creeks and brooks, whether
continually or intermittently flowing; and lakes and ponds, as shown on the
official maps of the Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Calhoun
County Drain Commissioner.
   WETLAND.  Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances does
support, wetland vegetation and/or aquatic life. Also known as a bog, swamp,
marsh, and the like. (M.C.L.A. § 324.30301, Part 303 of NREPA, Wetlands
Protection). The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality is the authority
on the presence and regulatory status of wetlands.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 53.04 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The requirements of these performance standards shall apply to all new
and redeveloped sites with projects that fall under site plan review. These
requirements shall apply to all public and private sites within the village,
regardless of whether the storm water outlet(s) from the site discharge to a
designated county drain, village storm sewer system, waters of the state or any
other types of conveyance. These requirements shall also apply to sites under
the control of public agencies, such as schools, federal and state government
facilities, and other entities that might not otherwise be subject to site plan
review procedures and requirements as set forth in other sections of the
village's codified ordinances. The applicant, in his or her plan submittals for
site plan approval, shall demonstrate compliance with these performance
standards and shall be responsible for evaluating the elected best management
practices.
   (B)   Storm water management areas and facilities, whether on-site or off-
site, shall be designed, constructed and maintained to prevent flooding and
protect water quality. In order to be approved, all storm water management
plans must meet the following performance standards:
      (1)   Storm event basis. The design of retention storm water management
systems shall be based upon a 25-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm event.
      (2)   Runoff. Runoff leaving the site shall be controlled to a non-
erosive velocity, both during and after construction.
      (3)   Minimum treatment volume.  A minimum treatment volume is
established to provide pollutant removal (pre-treatment) for common
precipitation events. The minimum treatment volume standard shall be one half-
inch of runoff from the entire site.
      (4)   Channel protection criteria. Channel protection criteria are
established to protect stream channel bed and banks from excessive flows. The
channel protection criteria is to maintain post-development site runoff volume
and peak flow rate at or below existing levels for all storms up to the 25-
year, 24-hour event. EXISTING LEVELS means the runoff flow volume and rate for
the last land use prior to the planned new development or redevelopment.
      (5)   Riparian buffers.
         (a)   A riparian buffer shall be considered for lands adjacent to
streams, rivers and wetlands that are contagious to these natural features.
         (b)   Riparian buffers shall also be considered for noncontiguous
wetlands if the full extent of the wetlands as a natural feature is five acres
or greater.
         (c)   Where applicable, the following guidelines shall apply.
            1.   The riparian buffer shall serve as a natural conservation
area, where the principal best management practice is vegetative filtering and
the conservation of trees, shrubs and herbaceous vegetation.
            2.   The riparian buffer is a storm water management measure to
control soil loss and reduce water quality degradation caused by nutrients,
animal wastes, toxic chemicals, sediments and runoff.
            3.   The riparian buffer shall begin at the edge of the stream bank
of the active channel or the wetland boundary.
            4.   The riparian buffer shall be composed of two distinct
management zones in order to proscribe both permitted and restricted uses that
provide progressive best management practices for storm water quality
protection.
               a.    Zone 1 - Stream Side Protection.  Zone 1 begins at the
edge of the stream bank or wetland and extends 25 feet up gradient and
perpendicular to the protected natural feature. Zone 1 shall contain
undisturbed natural vegetation. Allowable uses within this zone are restricted
to flood control structures, utility rights-of-way, foot paths, and road
crossings where permitted. Highly restricted vegetative trimmings and removal
of woody brush/trees is allowed to provide a limited view shed of the protected
natural feature.
               b.    Zone 2 - Outer Zone. The Outer Zone (Zone 2) begins at the
outer limit of the Stream Side Protection Zone (Zone 1) and extends 25 feet.
Allowable uses within the Outer Zone are biking or hiking paths, approved storm
water management facilities, approved recreational facilities, and removal of
mature tree cover. Shrub and herbaceous ground cover are to be protected from
disturbance.
      (6)   Riparian buffer permitted activities. The following activities are
permitted within Zones 1 and 2, provided the activity is undertaken in
accordance within recognized best management practices. Other regulatory
restrictions may apply, such as actions that may require separate federal,
state or local permit or permit-by-rule provisions.
         (a)   Stream restoration projects conducted with advice and guidance
of the county conservation district.
         (b)   Removal of individual trees in danger of falling, causing damage
to structures, or causing blockage of the stream.
         (c)   Timber-cutting techniques approved by state agencies, under
advice and guidance, for purposes of forest management due to pest infestation,
disease or threat from fire.
         (d)   Riparian buffers are intended to grow into their vegetative
target state naturally. However, active methods to enhance successional
process, reforestation or to ensure preservation and propagation of the buffer
are allowed.
      (7)   Riparian buffer width.  The width of each zone may need to be
increased if steep slopes are within close proximity of the protected natural
feature. Guidelines of the U.S. Geological Service may be used to determine the
required equivalent length of vegetative filter capacity needed for slopes in
excess of 15%.
   (C)   Storm water storage facilities that protect water quality and prevent
adverse flooding on-site and off-site shall be required for all sites of one
acre or more. In order to improve the quality of storm water runoff and reduce
the discharge of sediment into wetlands, watercourses, roadways, structures and
other property within and downstream of the village, the following techniques,
(1) through (6), and standards, (7) through (9), shall be used:
      (1)   Infiltration of runoff, provided that soils and groundwater
conditions are suitable.
      (2)   Retention basins with a fixed minimum water elevation between
runoff events (e.g., wet ponds).
      (3)   Detention basins that drain completely after a storm event (e.g.,
dry basin), but that discharge storm water to wetlands, or constructed basins
that trap sediment carried by storm water runoff.
      (4)   Detention basins that hold storm water for more than 24 hours
before completely draining to become a dry basin (extended detention basins).
      (5)   Detention basins with a positive outlet shall be designed to hold
runoff from a ten-year storm event, as a minimum. Retention basins without a
positive outlet shall be designed to hold runoff from a 100-year storm event.
      (6)   Natural watercourses shall not be dredged, cleared of vegetation,
deepened, widened, straightened, stabilized or otherwise altered without
approval from the Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Calhoun County
Drain Commissioner.
      (7)   Discharge of runoff from commercial and industrial sites that may
contain oil, grease, toxic chemicals, or other polluting materials shall be
prohibited, unless approval has been obtained from the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources and Calhoun County Drain Commissioner.
      (8)   The use of storm water management areas and vegetated buffer areas
as open space, recreation and conservation areas shall be encouraged.
      (9)   Right of entry, furnishing information.  Representatives of the
village, State of Michigan, DEQ, and Calhoun County Drain Commission shall have
the right to entry for inspection, at any reasonable time, any property served
by a storm water drainage facility. On request, the owner, lessees, or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the drainage system or systems on such
property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested,
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of unlawful discharge.
   (D)   Pipes, conduits, ditches, drains or other conveyance facilities shall
not discharge directly to the following receiving waters without providing the
minimum treatment volume and channel protection criteria:
      (1)   Any natural watercourses, including lakes, ponds, rivers and
streams.
      (2)   Wetlands with unique or natural wildlife or habitat
characteristics, as defined by a professional wetlands delineation specialist,
biologist or ecologist.
      (3)   Wetlands within a 500-foot discharge of any natural lake or pond.
      (4)   Wetlands within a 100-foot distance of any river or stream.
   (E)   Discharge from storm water conveyance facilities shall be routed
through swales, vegetated buffer strips, storm water basins, hydrologically
isolated wetlands, and other facilities designed to decrease runoff below
velocity and volume, allow for natural infiltration, allow suspended solids to
settle, and remove pollutants.
   (F)   If wetlands are proposed for storm water detention, runoff must be
diffused to non-erosive velocities before it reaches the wetlands.
   (G)   Monitoring and access of discharges.  As a condition to having a
direct connection to waters of the state or to the municipal storm sewer
system, an industrial or commercial facility shall permit the village to enter
and inspect, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, to determine
compliance with this chapter. Such entry and inspection may include, but not be
limited to, sampling, analysis, dye testing, smoke testing, remote video
inspection (televising), and examination and/or copying of records required by
this chapter to be maintained.
   (H)   The village may require a commercial or industrial facility that
discharges into the storm water system to install devices as are reasonably
necessary to monitor and/or sample the facility's storm water discharge. In the
alternative, and at its option, the village may install such devices. All such
devices shall be calibrated to ensure accuracy.
   (I)   (1)   The village is hereby empowered to seek assistance from any
court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining entry to a facility, if the
village:
         (a)   Has been refused access to any part of the premises from which
storm water originates and/or is discharged; and
         (b)   Is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may
be a violation of this chapter; or that there is a need to inspect and/or
sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify
compliance with this chapter, or any order issued hereunder; or to protect the
overall public health, safety and welfare of the community.
      (2)   In addition, or in the alternative, the village, if denied entry,
may terminate the facility's connection to the storm water system. Such
termination must be preceded by written notice to the facility and/or
responsible party of such intent.
   (J)    Requirement to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices.  
      (1)   If the owner or operator of a facility does not provide reasonable
protection from illicit discharge, the village may require best management
practices (BMPs) and/or storm water pollution prevention plans (SWPPPs) for a
facility that discharges, or is reasonably suspected of discharging, pollution
into the storm water system, at the facility’s expense.
      (2)   A BMP shall be consistent with the guidelines set forth in the most
current MDEQ Guidebook of Best Management Practices for Michigan Watersheds, or
equivalent practices and design criteria that accomplish the purposes of this
chapter, as approved by the Department. A BMP and/or a SWPPP, which may be
imposed even if the facility is subject to a NPDES permit, shall be
communicated in writing by the village to the facility.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 53.05 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility, has information of a release, or suspected release, of pollutants
into the storm water system, he or she shall take all reasonable and necessary
steps to discover, contain and clean up such release, including, if necessary,
contacting emergency response agencies. He or she shall also notify the village
of the discharge, either in person, by telephone or by facsimile, as soon as
possible, but in no event more than six hours after learning of the release.
   (B)   All spill notifications provided to the village in person or by
telephone shall be documented by that person in writing and mailed to the
Administrator within five business days of the incident.
      (1)   The written notice shall specify the following: the composition of
the discharge and the cause thereof; the exact date, time and estimated volume
of discharge; all measures taken to clean up the discharge and all measures
proposed to be taken to reduce and prevent any recurrence; the name and
telephone number of the person making the report; and the name of the person
who may be contacted for additional information on the matter.
      (2)   The person shall also provide the Administrator with copies of all
documents the person submits to state or federal agencies relating to the same
release.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 53.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever it finds that a person has violated a provision of this
chapter, the village may order compliance by issuing a written notice of
violation to the responsible person. The notice may require one or more of the
following:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of an illicit connection or discharge;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operations cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards, and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   The abatement and correction of any degradation of riparian habitat
and aquatic life caused by the failure to design, install, operate or maintain
sediment control, storm water management, or agricultural BMPs in accordance
with an approved sediment control plan, storm water plan, sediment control
permit, soil conservation and quality plan or plan for compliance;
      (6)   The reimbursement to the village in an amount sufficient to
reimburse it for all reasonable administrative and remediation costs; and
      (7)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a civil infraction, punishable as set forth in the schedule of
fines adopted from time to time by the Village Council.
      (2)   Each day that the violation exists shall be construed as a separate
offense and subject to a fine for each day the infraction exists after official
notification of the violation.
   (C)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
are required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which the
remediation or restoration must be completed. The notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore the affected property
within the established deadline, that work may be done by the village, with the
expenses thereof charged to the violator.
   (D)   The village may perform reasonable and necessary abatement activities
whenever it determines a violation of this chapter has occurred and it appears
that the responsible party cannot or will not timely perform these activities,
or when no known responsible party exists. The responsible party shall
reimburse the village for all reasonable expenses this incurred.
   (E)   If the village desires the responsible party to reimburse it for
reasonable abatement activity expenses, the village shall, within 90 days of
the completion of these activities, mail to that person a notice of claim,
outlining the expenses incurred, including reasonable administrative costs, and
the amounts thereof. The person billed shall pay the sum in full within 30 days
for receipt of claim. If the person billed desires to object to all or some of
the amount sought by the village, he or she may file, within the same 30-day
period, a written objection so stating. Within 30 days of receiving of the
objection, the Administrator shall provide an opportunity for the objecting
party to present facts or arguments supporting the objection. If the village
determines that some or the entire amount originally billed is appropriate, the
person shall pay the sum within 30 days of receipt of that determination. If
the amount due is not timely paid, the village may cause the charges to become
a special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 53.07 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   If a person violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter,
the village may petition the appropriate court for injunctive relief,
restraining the person from activities that would create further violations, or
compelling the person to perform necessary abatement or remediation.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 53.08 VIOLATION DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin or otherwise compel
the cessation of the nuisance may be taken by the village.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 9-3-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   SCHOOL TRAFFIC CONTROL
         
72.   PARKING
         
73.   BICYCLES AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Code adopted by reference
§ 70.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform Traffic Code is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 71: SCHOOL TRAFFIC CONTROL
Section
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Driving on school property
   
71.03   Parking prohibited on certain properties
   
71.04   Violations
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations governing the
operation, parking without fees, and the speed of motor vehicles upon the
property of Homer Community Schools pursuant to a request of the Homer
Community School Board of Education, made in accordance with the provisions of
Public Act 175 of 1958, Ch. 48, M.C.L.A. § 257.961.
(Prior Code, § 202.01)
§ 71.02 DRIVING ON SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any property owned by the
Homer Community School District, except upon streets and parking lots
designated for vehicular traffic. No person shall operate an unlicensed motor
vehicle upon any property owned by the Homer Community School District.
(Prior Code, § 202.02)
   (B)   (1)   Any person driving a vehicle on a parking lot or roadway
designated for vehicular traffic upon properties owned by the Homer Community
School District shall drive the same at a careful and prudent speed not greater
nor less than is reasonable and proper, having due regard to the traffic,
surface and width of the street, and of any other conditions then existing, and
no person shall drive any vehicle upon any street or parking lot designated for
vehicular traffic by the Homer Community School District at a speed greater
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions of division (B)(1) above, it shall be
prima facie lawful for the driver of the vehicle to drive the same at a speed
not exceeding the following, but in any case when the speed would be unsafe, it
shall not be lawful:
         (a)   Ten mph on all parking lots and roadways owned and operated by
the Homer Community School District; and/or
         (b)   It shall be prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed the
foregoing speed limitations.
(Prior Code, § 202.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN PROPERTIES.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park or stand
a vehicle at any time upon the streets or parking tots operated by the Homer
Community School District.
(Prior Code, § 202.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be deemed a civil infraction.
(Prior Code, § 202.99) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Parking regulations
   
72.02   Parking Violations Bureau
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle at any time upon the side of the street so marked.
   (B)   When signs are erected upon approach to hazardous or congested places,
no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   (C)   When signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of the
street or highway adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
   (D)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under the conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, excepting that where
the alley is of insufficient width to permit parking and at the same time leave
a space of ten feet for the free movement of vehicular traffic, in the case no
vehicle shall be parked in the portion of the alley for a longer period than is
reasonably necessary for purposes of loading or unloading merchandise or
materials and then only in case some person is in actual physical charge of the
vehicle and the driver thereof is engaged in loading or unloading the vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall park any vehicle consisting of more than one unit nor
any single vehicle of more than 20 feet in length, front to rear and inclusive
of load, upon any street of this village where angle parking is required and so
marked by lines or signs.
   (F)   No person shall park a vehicle on any of the public streets, alleys,
and/or easements of the village between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. at
any time, unless otherwise posted.
      (1)   With the consent of Village Council, the Village Manager may
prohibit or restrict the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and may
direct the erection of signs or publication giving notice, on village streets
or village municipal parking lots.
      (2)   Municipal lot parking.
         (a)   Parking in municipal parking lots is prohibited from 2:00 a.m.
until 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The Village Manager is authorized, with consent of the Village
Council by motion, to establish procedures for the issuance of permits for
parking overnight on municipal lots, on both short term and annual basis.
         (c)   All long term permits, as established by procedure, shall expire
by December 31.
         (d)   Village Council will approve permit rates.
   (G)   The driver of a bus or taxi shall not stand or park upon any street in
any business district at any place other than a bus stop or taxi stand,
respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the bus driver or
taxi driver from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading passengers.
   (H)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxi in a taxi stand, when any such stop or stand has
been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of
a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when the stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxi waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
   (I)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic, with
the curbside wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway,
excepting that on those streets which have been marked or signed for angle
parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by the
mark or signs.
   (J)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway or sidewalk
adjacent thereto for the principal purpose of displaying it for sale,
displaying advertising, or washing, polishing, greasing, storing, or repairing
the vehicle, except for repairs necessitated by an emergency.
   (K)   No person shall double park a vehicle at any time upon any of the
highways or streets within the village.
   (L)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign, yield sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75 feet
of the entrance when properly sign posted;
      (8)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic or upon any bridge or
other elevated structure upon a highway;
      (9)   In a parking space clearly identified by an official sign as being
reserved for use by disabled persons which is on public or private property
available for public use, unless the person is a disabled person as described
in the Uniform Traffic Code or unless the person is parking the vehicle for the
benefit of a disabled person. In order for the vehicles to be parked in the
parking space, the vehicle shall display one of the following:
         (a)   A certificate of identification issued by this state to a
disabled person and displayed on the lower left corner of the front windshield;
         (b)   A special registration plate issued by this state to a disabled
person;
         (c)   A similar certificate of identification issued by another state
to a disabled person;
         (d)   A similar special registration plate issued by another state to
a disabled person; or
         (e)   A special registration plate to which a disabled person tab is
attached issued by this state.
      (10)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
(Prior Code, § 204.01) (Am. Ord. 2020-2, passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   A Parking Violations Bureau is hereby established as part of the Village
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 204.02)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to be a
civil infraction.
   (B)   Should any police officer of the village have reason to believe that a
provision of this code may have been violated, the officer may proceed, in the
discretion of the officer, either by issuing a parking violation notice and
affixing the same to the vehicle in violation, or by commencing a civil
infraction action against the person whom the officer believes to be
responsible. If a parking violation notice is issued with respect to an alleged
violation hereof, and the penalty as stated thereon is paid as provided herein,
no civil infraction action shall be commenced with respect to the alleged
violation. Should the penalty as provided on the parking violation notice not
be paid within 21 days of the issuance of the notice, the officer may proceed
to bring a civil infraction action with respect to the alleged violation.
   (C)   The penalty to be paid by the owner or operator of a vehicle with
respect to which a parking violation notice is issued is as follows:
      (1)   Five dollars, if paid within 48 hours of the issuance of the
parking violation notice;
      (2)   Ten dollars, if paid after 48 hours but within seven days of the
issuance of the parking violation notice; or
      (3)   Fifteen dollars, if paid after seven days after the issuance of the
parking violation notice.
(Prior Code, § 204.99)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Recreational Vehicles Generally 
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Specific prohibited areas
   
73.03   Pedestrian right-of-way
   
73.04   Violations
Golf Carts
   
73.10   Permitted use on public streets
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any wheeled vehicle propelled by means of chain-driven gears using
foot power, including single-wheeled vehicles (unicycles), two-wheeled vehicles
(bicycles), three-wheeled vehicles (tricycles), and any of these vehicles
fitted with training wheels or other wheels to assist in the balancing of the
vehicle.
   ROLLER SKATES. Any shoe-like device with wheels attached, including ROLLER
SKATES, in-line skates, and roller blades.
   SKATEBOARD. Any surfboard-like object with wheels attached, including
vehicles commonly known as scooters, being surfboard-like objects with wheels
attached and a handle coming up from the front area of the board.
(Prior Code, § 206.01)
§ 73.02 SPECIFIC PROHIBITED AREAS.
   A person shall not operate any bicycle, skateboard, or roller skates on the
sidewalks of Main Street in the village between the west side of Hillsdale
Street and the east side of Webster Street.
(Prior Code, § 206.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   When any person is operating a bicycle, skateboard, or roller skates on any
other sidewalk in the village, that person shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian and shall give an audible signal before overtaking and passing that
pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 206.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 VIOLATIONS.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction.
(Prior Code, § 206.99) Penalty, see §
10.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.10 PERMITTED USE ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   As used in this section, GOLF CART means a vehicle designed for
transportation while playing the game of golf. A golf cart is not required to
meet the vehicle safety requirements of a low-speed vehicle, in accordance with
M.C.L.A. § 257.657a(17). The Village Council has approved the use of golf carts
on the streets of the Village of Homer, subject to the following requirements
of M.C.L.A. § 257.657a (not all listed):
   (A)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on any street unless he or she
is at least 16 years old and is licensed to operate a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with the signal requirements
of M.C.L.A. § 257.648 that apply to the operation of a vehicle.
   (C)   A person operating a golf cart upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (D)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on a state trunk line highway,
including M-60 and M-99. This division does not prohibit a person from crossing
a state trunk line highway when operating a golf cart on a street of a village,
city, or township, using the most direct line of crossing.   
   (E)   A person operating a golf cart shall not pass between lines of
traffic, but may pass on the left of traffic moving in his or her direction in
the case of a two-way street or on the left or right of traffic in the case of
a one-way street, in an unoccupied lane.
   (F)   A golf cart shall not be operated on a sidewalk constructed for the
use of pedestrians.
   (G)   A golf cart shall be operated at a speed not to exceed 15 miles per
hour and shall not be operated on a highway or street with a speed limit of
more than 30 miles per hour.
   (H)   A golf cart shall not be operated on the streets of the village during
the time period from 1/2 hour before sunset to 1/2 hour after sunrise.
(Ord. -, passed 9-10-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   TREES, PLANTS, AND SHRUBS
         
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
93.   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
         
94.   NUISANCE; HEALTH AND SANITATION
         
95.   FAIR HOUSING POLICY
         
96.   ANIMAL CONTROL
CHAPTER 90: TREES, PLANTS, AND SHRUBS
Section
   
90.01   Village authority
   
90.02   Permit
   
90.03   Prohibited trees
   
90.04   Tree guards
   
90.05   Street clearance
   
90.06   Wires prohibited
   
90.07   Utility wire interference
§ 90.01 VILLAGE AUTHORITY.
   The village shall have full power and authority over the trees, plants, and
shrubs planted or hereafter planted in the streets, alleys, parks, boulevards,
and other public places of the village; to trim, remove, design the planting
thereof, and otherwise control as in its discretion is deemed advisable.
(Prior Code, § 304.01)
§ 90.02 PERMIT.
   No person shall plant, remove, or destroy any tree, shrub, or plant in any
street, alley, or public place without first obtaining a written permit to do
so from the village.
(Prior Code, § 304.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 PROHIBITED TREES.
   No person shall plant on any private property within the village any poplar,
box elder, basswood, willow, soft maple, horse chestnut, or tree of heaven
without first obtaining a written permit to do so from the village.
(Prior Code, § 304.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 TREE GUARDS.
   In the erection, alteration, repair, or removal of any building or
structure, the owner thereof shall place or cause to be placed any guards
around all nearby trees on the public highways as will effectually prevent
injury to the trees.
(Prior Code, § 304.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 STREET CLEARANCE.
   Any tree not growing on a public street, alley, park, boulevard, or other
public place, but so located as to extend its branches over a street, alley,
park, boulevard, or other public place, shall be so trimmed by the owner of the
property on which the tree stands or by his or her agent, that there shall be a
clear height of ten feet over that portion of the surface of the street, alley,
park, boulevard, and other public places used for vehicular traffic and eight
feet over all sidewalks, unobstructed by branches. The owner or his or her
agent shall remove all trees, branches, or stubs on the tree or trees which are
or may become a menace to the travelers in any public street, alley, park,
boulevard, or other public places or which may be a menace to adjoining
property owners. If the owner fails to remove the trees, branches, or stubs,
then it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to notify the property owner, in
writing, to remove the tree, branch, or stub forthwith, and if the owner shall
fail to comply with the written order of the Village Clerk within 30 days after
the written notice, then the village employees may enter the premises and
remove the same and the costs of the removal shall be recovered by the village
in an action of assumpsit against the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 304.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 WIRES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall attach any electric wire, telephone wire, insulation, or
other device for holding electric or telephone wires to any tree now growing or
hereafter planted in any street, alley, park, boulevard, or other public place
in the village.
(Prior Code, § 304.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 UTILITY WIRE INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   A person or public or private utility, after written notice by the
Director of the Department of Public Works, when in his or her discretion any
tree, whether on public or private property, is interfering with the wires of
any utility which would constitute a hazard, must, within two weeks from the
receipt of the notice and the issuance of the required permit therefor,
counter-signed by the property owner, correct the interference either by
trimming or removal of the tree or part thereof at his or her or its own
expense pursuant to §
90.05. Should the tree or trees, in the discretion of the above official,
require removal, if on private property, the owner or the utility shall be
required to remove same and remove the brush at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Should the tree or trees in the discretion of the above official
require removal, if on public property, the utility shall be required to remove
same to a point below the wires or remove the wires for tree or limb removal
and the balance of the tree and brush shall be removed by the village at its
expense.
(Prior Code, § 304.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Nuisance
   
91.03   Prohibited conduct
   
91.04   Motor vehicle storage and repair
   
91.05   Inoperable vehicles, public property
   
91.06   Abatement procedure
   
91.07   Interference with abatement prohibited
   
91.08   Additional remedies
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Is unlicensed and which is in an inoperable condition;
      (2)   Although licensed, is abandoned; or
      (3)   Although licensed, is dismantled, partly dismantled, and/or in an
inoperable condition and which remains in a dismantled, partly dismantled, and/
or inoperable condition for ten days or more.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to, automobiles, buses,
motor bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, and golf
carts.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the village which is privately
owned and which is not public property.
(Prior Code, § 308.01) (Ord. 07-02, passed 9-4-2007)
§ 91.02 NUISANCE.
   The presence of any abandoned vehicle or part thereof outdoors on any
premises in the village zoned for residential (or business) purposes is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and offensive to the public’s health, welfare, and
safety.
(Prior Code, § 308.02)
§ 91.03 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or
leaving of any inoperable vehicle as defined in §
91.01, or part of any such inoperable vehicle, upon any private property within
the village, unless completely within a building or garage.
(Prior Code, § 308.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 MOTOR VEHICLE STORAGE AND REPAIR.
   There shall be excepted from the definition of inoperable vehicle any motor
vehicle which is located on the premises of commercial garages, automobile
repair shops, auto service stations, or automotive dealers while the motor
vehicle is being repaired or stored, so long as the motor vehicle is stored and
maintained in an orderly manner.
(Prior Code, § 308.04)
§ 91.05 INOPERABLE VEHICLES, PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Subject to §
91.04, no person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or
leaving of any inoperable vehicle or part thereof upon any public property
within the village for a period of time in excess of 72 hours. For purposes of
this section only, INOPERABLE VEHICLE is defined as any motor vehicle, whether
licensed or not, the condition of which is wrecked, junked, dismantled,
partially dismantled, inoperative, abandoned, or discarded.
(Prior Code, § 308.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever it comes to the attention of the Chief of Police that any
abandoned vehicle or part thereof exists in the village, a notice, in writing,
shall be served upon the occupant of the land where the nuisance exists, or in
case there is no such occupant, then upon the owner of the property or his or
her agent, notifying him or her of the existence of the nuisance and requesting
its removal in the time specified in this section.
   (B)   Upon proper notice and opportunity to be heard, both the owner of the
abandoned vehicle or part thereof and the owner or occupant of the private
property on which the same is located shall be responsible for its removal. In
the event of the removal and disposition by the village, the owner, or occupant
of the private property where the same is located, shall be liable for the
expense incurred.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall give notice of
removal to the owner or occupant of the private property where it is located,
at least seven days before the time of compliance. It shall constitute
sufficient notice when a copy of same is posted in a conspicuous place upon the
private property on which the vehicle or part thereof is located and duplicate
copies are sent by mail to the owner or occupant of the private property at his
or her last known address.
   (D)   The notice shall contain the request for removal within the time
specified in this section and the notice shall advise that upon failure to
comply with the notice to remove, the village and its designee shall undertake
the removal with the cost of the removal levied against the owner or occupants
of the property. The person to whom the notice is directed shall be advised
that he or she has a right to a hearing before the Chief of Police or his or
her designee; the hearing to be held within the seven-day period for
compliance. At the hearing, the Chief of Police or his or her designee, in
making a determination, shall take into account any extenuating circumstances
presented by the person.
   (E)   A person who disagrees with the decision of the Chief of Police or his
designee may appeal that decision to the Council. Any appeal shall be initiated
by submitting a letter to the Council within seven days of the date of the
decision being appealed from, requesting a hearing. The Council shall put the
matter on the agenda for the next Council meeting and the Council shall, at
that time, by way of motion, after affording the person an opportunity to
address the Council, either grant or deny the requested relief.
   (F)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee may carry out the
requirements of the notice of removal upon the happening of any of the
following events:
      (1)   The expiration of the time limit in the notice if the person does
not request a timely hearing before the Chief of Police or his or her designee;
      (2)   The expiration of the seven days after the hearing before the Chief
of Police or his or her designee if the person requests such a hearing and does
not timely appeal the decision to the Council; or
      (3)   Immediately after the Council meeting at which a decision is made
pursuant to the person's timely appeal of the decision rendered by the Chief of
Police or his or her designee.
   (G)   The cost of the abatement shall be charged against the premises from
which the nuisance was removed and shall become a lien against the premises and
may be collected in the same manner as a lien created by the village taxes
assessed against the premises, with the cost being assessed on the next
assessment roll following the incurring of the expense. In that case, the
amount of the expense shall be certified by the Village Treasurer to the
Village Assessor for assessment, and shall be collected in the same manner as
other village taxes. When collected, the amounts shall be paid into the
village's General Fund to reimburse the outlay therefrom as authorized in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 308.06)
§ 91.07 INTERFERENCE WITH ABATEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere with, hinder, or refuse to allow the Chief of
Police or his or her designee to enter upon private property for the purpose of
removing a vehicle or part thereof under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 308.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   Any action taken by the village to abate any nuisance under the provisions
of this chapter shall not affect the right of the village to institute
proceedings against the person committing, creating, or maintaining any
nuisance in violation of the provisions of this chapter or affect the
imposition of the penalty prescribed for the violation. Any person who violates
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, as defined in state law and as provided in
Chapter 30. As an additional remedy, upon application by the village to any
court of competent jurisdiction, the court may order the nuisance abated and/or
the violation restrained and enjoined.
(Prior Code, § 308.08) (Ord. 07-02, passed 9-4-2007)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Driving across sidewalk; costs
   
92.02   Construction, repair, and replacement
   
92.03   Sidewalk specifications
Snow and Ice Removal
   
92.15   Duty to clear
   
92.16   Exemptions
   
92.17   Notice of violation; order to abate
Excavations and Explosions
   
92.30   Definitions; applications
   
92.31   General prohibitions
   
92.32   Notice of intent
   
92.33   Permit
   
92.34   Damages; performance bond
   
92.35   Financial responsibility
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DRIVING ACROSS SIDEWALK; COSTS.
   (A)   Driving across sidewalks. Any person who desires to drive across any
sidewalk within the village limits with any motor vehicle shall, before
crossing, lay planks at least two inches thick by 12 inches wide on each side
of the sidewalk in order to avoid damage to the sidewalk, except in places
where the sidewalk crosses a driveway.
(Prior Code, § 520.01)
   (B)   Costs assessed. Any person who shall damage or destroy any sidewalk
because of failure to place planks, as required in division (A) above, shall be
liable to the village for the cost of repair or replacement of that sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 520.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, AND REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Construction. The Council may, whenever in its judgment it is
necessary for public convenience, decide to have sidewalks constructed in the
streets of the village and assess one-half of the construction cost to the
property owner or owners abutting those sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 520.03)
   (B)   Repair; replacement. The Council may, whenever in its judgment it is
deemed necessary, decide to have any sidewalk in the village repaired or
replaced, with the village to bear the entire cost of that repair or
replacement.
(Prior Code, § 520.04)
   (C)   Construction, repair, or replacement by property owner. Any property
owner desiring to construct, repair, or replace a sidewalk abutting the owner's
premises shall apply to the Council for permission to do so. The Council may
approve, modify, or reject the application in its discretion. If the
application is approved, all costs associated with the construction, repair, or
replacement shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 520.05)
§ 92.03 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks constructed or caused to be constructed under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be four feet in width and four inches thick, made with
a mixture of one part cement and four parts good, sharp gravel, built upon a
suitable foundation, and have a good, hard finish.
(Prior Code, § 520.06) Penalty, see §
92.99
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
§ 92.15 DUTY TO CLEAR.
   (A)   Unless exempted pursuant to §
92.16, the owner or occupant of any property located within the village within
the R1, R2, or R3 Districts, and property used for residential purposes within
the R4 District, shall clear accumulations of ice or snow from the public
sidewalks adjoining the property within 24 hours of the accumulation or
placement of snow or ice on the sidewalks.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of any property located within the village
within the LI, HI, B, CS, HS, or OAC Districts, and property used for
commercial purposes within the R4 District, shall clear accumulations of ice or
snow from the public sidewalks adjoining the property within 24 hours of the
accumulation or placement of snow or ice on the sidewalks.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 1- -2002) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of any property located within the village
within the R1, R2, or R3 Districts, and property used for residential purposes
within the R4 District, is exempt from the obligation to clear accumulations of
ice and snow from the public sidewalks adjoining their property if the Village
Manager or his or her designee determines that compliance with §
92.15(A) would result in a physical or economic hardship.
   (B)   A person may not claim the exemption in an enforcement proceeding
under this section unless the person has applied for and obtained the exemption
from the Village Manager or his or her designee prior to the date of any
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 1- -2002)
§ 92.17 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ORDER TO ABATE.
   (A)   Generally. Any person determined by the Village Manager or his or her
designee to be in violation of §
92.15 shall be given notice of the violation and ordered to abate the violation
as follows.
   (B)   Service of notice and order. The notice and order may be served by any
one of the following means:
      (1)   In writing, by first-class mail, addressed to the owner of the
property at the last known address as shown by village tax records. The notice
and order shall at the same time also be mailed to the occupants of the
property, if different from the owner. If the notice and order are served by
mail, they shall be deemed received by the addressee three mail-delivery days
after deposit in the United States mail;
      (2)   In writing, posted at the property. The notice and order shall be
deemed to have been served to the owner and/or occupant, as applicable, at the
time the notice and order is posted at the property; or
      (3)   By providing the notice and order orally, either in person or by
telephone. The oral notice and order shall be deemed to have served to the
owner and/or occupant, as applicable, at the time the oral notice and order are
given. A written confirmation of the oral notice and order shall be mailed by
the village to the person served within five days of the oral notice and order,
provided that the failure to do so shall not affect the person's obligation to
comply with the oral notice and order and shall not constitute a defense to a
violation of §
92.15(A).
   (C)   Contents of notice and order. To the extent known by the village, and
as applicable under the circumstances, a notice and order under this subchapter
shall include:
      (1)   The date and time the notice was served;
      (2)   The name and address of the person (or persons) responsible for the
violation;
      (3)   A description of the nature and location of the violation, and the
provisions of this subchapter violated;
      (4)   The minimum corrective actions required to abate the violation;
      (5)   A statement that the violation must be abated within 48 hours from
the time the notice was served;
      (6)   An order to abate the violation by the time specified in the order,
which shall be 48 hours from the time notice and order are deemed to have been
received, as provided by this subchapter;
      (7)   The applicable fines or other consequences for failure to abate the
violation by the time specified in the notice and order; and
      (8)   A statement indicating that if the violation is not abated as
ordered, then the village may unilaterally act to abate the violation; that the
costs to the village of any action by the village to abate the violation, plus
an administrative fee and any applicable fines, shall be a personal debt of the
person to the village, which may be assessed by the village as a lien against
the property until paid; and that the refusal to allow the village to abate an
uncorrected violation shall constitute a separate and additional violation of
this subchapter.
   (D)   Abatement required. Any person served with a notice and order as
provided by this subchapter shall abate the violation as specified by the
order.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 1- -2002) Penalty, see §
92.99
EXCAVATIONS AND EXPLOSIONS
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EXCAVATE. Moving any soil, sod, cement, or blacktop, or any other hard
surface pavement, including also all sidewalks and curbs.
      PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, or association,
including a person engaged as a contractor by a public agency, but PERSON does
not mean a public agency.
      POLES. All utility poles, owned by both private and public utilities.
      PUBLIC AGENCY. A state, city, village, township, county, or any other
governmental entity.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. A natural gas company subject to the jurisdiction of the
Federal Power Commission, or an electric, steam, gas, telephone, power, water,
or pipeline company subject to the jurisdiction of the Public Service
Commission as defined by M.C.L.A. § 460.701(d).
(Prior Code, § 560.01)
   (B)   Applies to; type of tools. This subchapter applies to any person or
public agency using either non-powered handtools or power tools performing
excavating or tunneling operations described herein.
(Prior Code, § 560.02)
§ 92.31 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   A person or public agency shall not discharge explosives, excavate, or
tunnel in a street, highway, public place, sidewalk, curb, or private easement
of the village, either within or without the corporate limits of the village,
or of a public utility, or near the location of a public facility, owned,
maintained, or installed on a customer's premises, or demolish a building
containing a public utility facility, without having first ascertained in the
manner prescribed in §
92.32, the locations of all underground facilities of a public utility in the
proposed area of excavations, discharging of explosives, tunneling, or
demolition. No person or public utility shall move or remove any poles, guy
anchors, and/or steel supports thereof whether by request of the village or not
without a permit to do so from the village pursuant to §
92.33.
(Prior Code, § 560.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 NOTICE OF INTENT.
   A person or public agency responsible for excavating or tunneling
operations, or discharge of explosives in any street, highway, easement, and/or
land owned by the village, either within or without the village, or other
public place, private easement for a public utility, or near the location of
utility facilities on a customer's property, or demolition of a building
containing a utility facility, shall serve a written notice of intent to
excavate, tunnel, discharge explosives, or demolish, at least two full working
days, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, but not more than three
weeks before commencing the excavating, demolishing, discharging of explosives,
or tunneling operations on any land or easement of the village, either within
or without the confines of the village, or a public utility having underground
facilities located on the proposed area of excavation, discharge of explosives,
tunneling, or demolition. The written notice of intent shall contain the name,
address, and telephone number of the person or public agency filing the notice
of intent; the name of the person or public agency performing the excavating,
discharging of explosives, demolishing, or tunneling operations to be
conducted; and the location of the excavation, tunneling, discharging of
explosives, or demolition.
(Prior Code, § 560.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 PERMIT.
   Following the receipt of an adequate written notice of intent as outlined in
§
92.32, and, after complete inspection and acceptance by the Director of Public
Works, a permit will be issued consenting to the work requested in the notice,
signed by the Director of Public Works and one member of the Village Council. A
fee as established by resolution of the Village Council shall be required to be
paid to the Village Clerk upon the granting of the requested permit. The fee
will be set on an annual basis and will be reviewed and reset annually.
(Prior Code, § 560.05)
§ 92.34 DAMAGES; PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Any person, as defined in §
92.30, who undertakes to do any of the anticipated work as hereinabove
outlined, is financially responsible to not only replace any and all dirt,
topsoil, cement (sidewalks, curbs, and road surfaces), blacktop, or other road
surfaces to the satisfaction of a final inspection by the Director of Public
Works, but be completely answerable for any and all damages resulting therefrom
as a result of the work. The village reserves the right to ask for and demand a
performance bond covering the work, and indemnifying the village therefor,
should the Director of Public Works, after his or her initial inspection,
recommend that same be required.
(Prior Code, § 560.06)
§ 92.35 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any and all work anticipated by this subchapter following the issuance of a
permit shall be done completely at the expense of the person to whom the permit
is issued.
(Prior Code, § 560.07)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Sections
92.15 through
92.17.
      (1)   Noncompliance with order.
         (a)   Abatement by village. If a person served with a notice and order
fails or refuses to abate the violation, as required by the order under §§
92.15 through
92.17, within 48 hours of being notified of the violation, the village or its
authorized representatives may enter the property and take any reasonable
actions necessary to remove the ice and snow from the sidewalks and abate the
violation.
         (b)   Costs of abatement; delinquent payments; lien. The costs,
including an administrative fee of $25, as incurred by the village in abating
the violation shall be immediately due and payable to the village by the owner
of the property where the violation occurred. The village shall notify the
property owner that the costs are due and owing by certified mail (return
receipt requested), addressed to the property owner's last known address as
shown by village tax records. If the costs are not paid in full within 30 days
of mailing the notification, they shall be delinquent. The amount of the costs
plus any administrative fee shall be certified by the Treasurer to the Assessor
for inclusion upon the next village tax roll. The amount included in the
village tax roll shall be a lien against the property which may be enforced and
discharged by the village in the same manner as a tax lien. The costs of
abatement, if any, recovered by the village shall be in addition to any civil
fines, damages, expenses, or costs payable to the village as a result of a
violation.
         (c)   Abatement by village not a defense to violation. The abatement
by the village of a violation of §§
92.15 through
92.17 and subsequent recovery of abatement costs incurred by the village shall
not be a defense to any action by the village against any person for the
violation, including, without limitation, any action by the village to collect
civil fines, damages, expenses, or costs as authorized by law.
      (2)   Municipal civil infraction. A person who violates any provision of
§§
92.15 through
92.17, including, without limitation, the failure or refusal to abate a
violation following service of a notice and order, is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than
$50 or more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses shall be subject to increased fines as provided by §
30.99. The Village Police Department is hereby designated as the authorized
village official to issue municipal civil infraction citations (directing
alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction violation
notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the village offices) for
violations under §§
92.15 through
92.17 as provided by this code.
      (3)   Nuisance per se; injunctive relief. A violation of §§
92.15 through
92.17 shall be deemed to be a nuisance per se. In addition to any other remedy
available at law, the village may bring an action for an injunction or other
process against a person to restrain, prevent, or abate any violation of §§
92.15 through
92.17.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 1- -2002)
CHAPTER 93: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Advertising prohibited on village property
   
93.03   Advertising prohibited without consent
   
93.04   Obscene advertising prohibited
   
93.05   Advertising waste prohibited
   
93.06   Exceptions
   
93.07   Violations
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The properties on, along or abutting Main Street from
Webster Street to M-99, and from M-60 to the alley south of Main Street,
including the "traffic circle." The abutting streets shall also include the
area from M-60 to the alley south of Main Street.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 93.02 ADVERTISING PROHIBITED ON VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   No person shall, within the business district of the village, paint, print,
post, or in any way affix any picture, bill, banner, or advertising matter of
any kind upon any post, hydrant, trash container, curb, sidewalk, lamp post,
tree, or public improvement in any public ground or street, or upon any bridge,
public building, or structure belonging to the village without the express
consent of the Village Manager, or his or her designate.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 ADVERTISING PROHIBITED WITHOUT CONSENT.
   No person shall, within the business district of the village, paint, post,
or in any way affix any pictures, bills, signs, or advertising matter upon any
post, fence, billboard, or signboard, or upon any building or structure without
the consent of the owner or the person in control of the building, lot, or
object.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 OBSCENE ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any bill or advertising containing pictures,
illustrations, or printed matter of an obscene or immoral character.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 ADVERTISING WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No bill poster shall scatter, daub, or leave any paste, glue, or other like
substances, used for affixing bills, upon any public sidewalk or pavement or
scatter or throw any old bills or waste materials removed from billboards on
any public street or alley, private grounds, or in the rear of any billboards
or signboards.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   The prohibitions in §§
93.02 through
93.05 shall not apply to legal or official notices.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 93.07 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as a
municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 2008-02, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCE; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Noxious Weeds, Grass and Brush
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Declaration of nuisance
   
94.03   Weed growth prohibited
   
94.04   Duty of owner
   
94.05   Appeal by owner
   
94.06   Notice and enforcement
   
94.07   Abatement process and costs
Open Burning
   
94.20   Definitions
   
94.21   Prohibition of open fires; exceptions
   
94.22   Burning leaves
   
94.23   Incinerators
   
94.24   Bonfires; campfires
   
94.25   Cost reimbursement
Noise
   
94.40   Purpose
   
94.41   General prohibitions
   
94.42   Specific prohibitions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Vehicles, see
Ch. 91
   Outdoor Advertising, see
Ch. 93
   Storm water management regulations, violation of deemed a public nuisance,
see §
53.08
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 92
   Trees, Plants, and Shrubs, see
Ch. 90
NOXIOUS WEEDS, GRASS AND BRUSH
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   BRUSH. Unmaintained vegetation and scrub trees that are not part of a
landscaping plan or system.
   DEVELOPED PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of ground, all or a portion of which has
been graded or land balanced to an extent that would reasonably allow the
mowing or cutting of grass/weeds with typical residential-type mowing or
cutting equipment.
   DUE NOTICE. Notice in accordance with §
94.06.
   NOXIOUS VEGETATION. Any vegetation, living or dead, that is generally odious
to man or that acts as a haven for the hiding, nesting or breeding of
mosquitoes, flies, bees, mice, bats, snakes, rats or other insects or animals
that are generally odious to man.
   OWNER. The owner of record as listed in the property tax assessment records
of the village.
   POISONOUS VEGETATION. Poison sumac, poison ivy, poison oak or like
vegetation that may cause inflammation and blistering of human skin when
contact occurs with human skin.
   SCRUB TREES. Unmaintained trees of less than 3 inches diameter, at the
height of 36 inches from the ground, that are not part of a landscaping plan or
system.
   UNDEVELOPED PROPERTY. A parcel of ground remaining, for the most part, in
the natural state and on which no grading or land balancing has taken place to
an extent that would reasonably allow the mowing or cutting of grass/weeds with
typical residential-type mowing or cutting equipment.
   VEGETATION. Any plant life, including, but not limited to, molds, fungi,
algae, herbs, grasses, flowers, shrubs, bushes and trees.
   WEED. Any grass exceeding the average height of 8 inches or any uncultivated
or rank vegetation, including, but not limited to, vegetation-bearing seeds of
a winged or downy nature capable of being spread by the winds, sunflowers,
thistle, dodder, mustard, straw, belladonna, nightshade, dandelion, wild
carrot, bind weed, perennial sow thistle, hoary alyssum, ragweed, marijuana,
hemp, tobacco, burdock, cocklebur, barberry brush or other weeds of a like
kind.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 94.02 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Weeds, noxious vegetation and poisonous vegetation, as defined in § 94.01,
are declared to be a hazard to the public health and welfare of persons within
the village, and offensive to the well-kept appearance of the village and are,
therefore, a nuisance.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 94.03 WEED GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Undeveloped property. Grass, brush, scrub trees and weeds must be
maintained at a height of 8 inches or less, for a minimum distance of 24 feet
from any abutting roadway/pavement edge. The Planning Director, with approval
of the Village Manager, shall have the ability to adjust this distance, based
on terrain, location, unusual conditions, and the like. Such adjustment shall
be documented in writing. The Village Manager, Code Enforcement Officer or
other designated official may require the removal of poisonous vegetation, such
as poison sumac, poison oak and poison ivy, when determined to be a hazard to
the public, health, safety and welfare of persons in the specific area.
   (B)   Undeveloped property with some clearing. If brush and/or scrub trees
have been removed from some portion of undeveloped property (clearing), and if
the cleared area is within 200 feet of an existing structure, then the property
owner shall continue to keep the area cleared of brush, scrub trees, and weeds.
   (C)   Developed property. All developed portions of the property must
maintain grass, brush, scrub trees and weeds at a height of 8 inches or less.
   (D)   Exemptions. Exempted from the provisions of this subchapter are flower
gardens, plots of shrubbery and vegetable gardens. An exemption under the terms
of this section cannot be claimed unless the land is being cultivated and cared
for in a manner appropriate to such exempt categories.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 94.04 DUTY OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any lot or parcel of ground within the
village to cut and remove or destroy by lawful means all such grass, brush,
scrub trees, poisonous vegetation and weeds as often as may be necessary to
comply with the provisions of §§
94.02 and
94.03.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 94.05 APPEAL BY OWNER.
   (A)   If a property owner believes that an error has been made in the
administration of this subchapter, or that special circumstances exist on his
or her property that should permit exemption or some relief from this
subchapter, then the property owner may make an appeal for such relief to the
Zoning Board of Appeals as provided below.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear petitions from a property owner
in regards to decisions and/or enforcement actions taken by the Village
Manager, Code Enforcement Officer or other designated official under the terms
of this subchapter. In order to make an appeal, the property owner shall file,
in the office of the Board (Village Clerk's office), a written petition
requesting such hearing, and containing a statement of the grounds therefor,
within 10 days from the date of personal service or the date of mailing of
notice to remedy the unlawful conditions existing under this subchapter.
Hearings held by the Board of Appeals under this subchapter shall follow the
same administrative and procedural process as other hearings held by the Board
of Appeals (§
152.412 of this code).
   (C)   During the period of time that an appeal is pursued by the owner,
enforcement of the notice to remedy the unlawful conditions under this code
shall be stayed.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 7-11-2011)
§ 94.06 NOTICE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The first time a violation occurs each growing season, the village
shall notify the owner and occupant of any lot or parcel of ground found to be
in violation of § 94.02 or § 94.03 of such violation, either by personal
service or by regular first class mail and posting on the property.
      (1)   The owner shall have 10 days from the date of receipt of personal
notice or of mailing of notice to remedy such unlawful conditions, which are
hereby deemed to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   Only the current owner of record, as indicated on the city's tax
and assessing records, shall be entitled to notice of violation.
      (3)   (a)   Failure to remedy the violation within the time shall be
cause for the village to enter the property and remove the unlawful growth of
grass, brush, scrub trees, poisonous vegetation and weeds without further
notice; and
         (b)   In addition, the violation shall be a municipal civil
infraction.
      (4)   Any expense incurred by the village in removing such unlawful
growth shall be assessed as a lien on the property, and become a single lot
assessment against the property upon which the growth existed.
      (5)   For additional violations in the same calendar year, notice shall
be mailed by first class mail, giving the owner five days from the date of
mailing to remedy the situation.
   (B)   Failure of the Village Manager, Code Enforcement Officer or other
designated official to give such notice shall not, however, constitute a
defense to any action to enforce the payment of any penalty provided for or
debt created under this subchapter.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall, during the month of April of each year, give
notice of this subchapter by publishing the notice thereof in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, and by posting notice of this subchapter on
the city's web site. Such publication shall constitute sufficient notice to
those owners whose addresses are unknown and not reasonably ascertainable.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 7-11-2011
§ 94.07 ABATEMENT PROCESS AND COSTS.
   (A)   If the owner, occupant or person in charge of lands within the village
shall fail, refuse or neglect to destroy grass, brush, scrub trees and weeds,
and to conform with this subchapter, it shall be the duty of the Village
Manager, Code Enforcement Officer or other designated official, after due
notice, to cause all grass, brush, scrub trees and weeds to be cut down,
removed and destroyed.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Manager, Code Enforcement Officer or other
designated official shall keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred in
carrying out this section with respect to each lot or parcel of ground entered
upon therefor, and shall make a sworn statement of such account and present the
account to the Village Treasurer for presentation to the Village Council.
      (2)   The Village Council shall audit and allow such account, and shall
assess the cost thereof against the owner of the land, as such owner shall
appear on the assessment roles.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Village Treasurer to forthwith certify to
the Village Assessor all accounts so audited and allowed.
      (1)   The Assessor shall add to all accounts so audited and allowed 10%
of the total of each separate account for inspections and other costs in
connection therewith.
      (2)   In addition, the Assessor shall add an abatement fee in the amount
established by Village Council resolution, and shall cause all such
expenditures so audited and allowed, together with the additional 10% and the
abatement fee, to be severally levied on the lands on which the expenditures
were made.
      (3)   The costs shall become a lien upon the land and shall be collected
in the same manner as other village taxes are collected and, when collected,
shall be paid into the village’s General Fund to reimburse the outlay therefrom
as authorized in this section.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 7-11-2011)
OPEN BURNING
§ 94.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BONFIRE and CAMPFIRE. A fire which is kindled for a civic, social, or
athletic event and which is made from trees, branches, and kindling. A BONFIRE
or CAMPFIRE is a type of open fire, as defined below.
   COMBUSTIBLE WASTE MATTER. Magazines, books, leaves, pasteboard boxes, paper,
sawdust, paper packing material, wood shavings, or boxes that are rapid burning
and would not smolder.
   FLAMMABLE MATERIAL. Any material that will readily ignite from common
sources of heat or any material that will ignite at a temperature of 600°F or
less.
   INCINERATOR. An industrial or commercial structure or portion thereof,
container, device, or other appliance designed, used, or intended to be used
for the disposal of combustible waste material, flammable material, or rubbish
by burning.
   OPEN FIRE. A fire made from any combustible waste material, flammable
material, or rubbish, which fire is kindled and maintained in whole or in part
in the open air.
   REFUSE. Shall be all manner of same, including, but not limited to, ashes,
rags, discarded clothing, discarded furniture, discarded appliances, tin cans,
tinware, bottles, broken glass, waste paper, motor vehicles or automobiles or
trucks which are unlicensed and which are in an inoperable condition, or motor
vehicles which although licensed are abandoned, or motor vehicles which
although licensed are dismantled, partly dismantled, and/or in an inoperable
condition and which remain in a dismantled, partly dismantled, and/or in an
inoperable condition for 90 days or more. The word REFUSE shall further include
all types of automotive or motor vehicle parts or components for which no
storage in a building is provided. The words REFUSE, TRASH, RUBBISH, and DEBRIS
shall be considered synonymous terms for the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 900.01) (Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 94.21 PROHIBITION OF OPEN FIRES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as permitted in division (B) below, no person shall:
      (1)   Public property. Kindle or maintain any open fire or authorize any
such open fire to be kindled or maintained on or in any public street, alley,
road, or other public place; and/or
      (2)   Private property. Kindle or maintain any open fire or authorize any
such open fire to be kindled or maintained on any private property. During
construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no waste materials or
rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or in the immediate
vicinity thereof.
      (3)   No person shall burn combustible waste materials within the
village.
      (4)   The use of a burning barrel, typically used to burn combustible
waste matter, is prohibited.
   (B)   Exceptions. Division (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   The burning of wood, charcoal, coke, or other accepted fuel for the
preparation of food in any form, in an approved container or utensil
manufactured for food preparation, while being used in a safe and sanitary
manner;
      (2)   The use of approved gaseous or liquid-fired salamanders commonly
employed in conjunction with building and construction operations, when used in
accordance with accepted safety standards;
      (3)   Roofers, tinners, plumbers, or other mechanics pursuing a business
requiring the use of fire, or fires for the purpose of boiling tar, pitch, or
oil used in the regular course of an appropriate business or trade, while being
used in a safe and sanitary manner and conforming to all other applicable
codes;
      (4)   Open burning that is specifically permitted, in writing, by the
Fire Chief for the Fire Department and civil defense purposes, after a
determination by the Fire Chief that the open burning will occur under the
following circumstances:
         (a)   The area is adequately protected by firefighters or Fire
Department trainees;
         (b)   The fire will be of short duration; and
         (c)   The atmosphere is relatively free of pollutants.
      (5)   Fires deemed necessary in times of disaster or emergency pursuant
to the Fire Chief's emergency order;
      (6)   Bonfires or campfires pursuant to §
94.24; or
      (7)   Leaves pursuant to §
94.22.
(Prior Code, § 900.02) (Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 8-7-2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 BURNING LEAVES.
   (A)   The burning of leaves in the village is hereby prohibited, except as
follows.
      (1)   During an emergency, the Village Manager may request the Village
Council to authorize the burning of leaves.
      (2)   The Village Council may establish a specific time period for the
burning of leaves. Notice of the time period and hours shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village and shall be posted in the
Village Hall.
   (B)   The following conditions, requirements, and safeguards shall apply to
the burning of leaves, after such approval by Village Council.
      (1)   The burning is permitted on private property only with the consent
of the owner or persons in charge of the property.
      (2)   The burning of leaves is not permitted on any public right-of-way,
including, but not limited to, sidewalks, roadway traffic lanes, parking areas,
paved areas, streets, alleys, or curbs and gutters.
      (3)   No person shall burn leaves or authorize the burning on any private
or public property, unless the location of the burning is more than 50 feet
from any structure and adequate provisions are made to prevent the fire from
spreading to within 50 feet of any structure.
      (4)   A fire resulting from the burning of leaves shall be constantly
attended by a competent adult of 18 years or older until the fire is
extinguished. The person shall have an operational garden hose connected to a
water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
      (5)   The burning of leaves is hereby prohibited when atmospheric
conditions make the fire hazardous or when the wind velocity is more than ten
mph, as established by the National Weather Service.
(Prior Code, § 900.03) (Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 8-7-2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 INCINERATORS.
   No person shall install, alter, operate, or construct a commercial or
industrial incinerator or any other refuse burning equipment for commercial or
industrial use (or allow the same to be done), without first obtaining a permit
therefor from the Department of Natural Resources, Air Quality Division.
(Prior Code, § 900.04) (Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 8-7-2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 BONFIRES; CAMPFIRES.
   (A)   Generally. Bonfires and campfires are subject to the following
conditions.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Location. No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or
campfire or authorize any bonfire to be kindled or maintained on any private or
public land, unless the location of the fire is not less than 15 feet from any
structure and adequate provisions are made to prevent the fire from spreading
to within 15 feet of any structure, and must be less than four feet in diameter
and no taller than 18 inches. Additionally, on public land, approval from the
Village Manager must be received beforehand.
      (2)   Attendants. A bonfire or campfire shall be constantly attended by a
competent adult until the fire is extinguished with water source readily
available.
      (3)   Safety. The Fire Chief may prohibit any and all bonfires and
campfires when atmospheric conditions or circumstances make the fire hazardous
or when, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, the bonfire or campfire would
constitute a fire hazard or will endanger the life or property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 900.05) (Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 8-7-2023) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 COST REIMBURSEMENT.
   In addition to or in lieu of any penalty, the offender shall reimburse the
village for the reasonable costs of control, investigation, and/or suppression
of illegal fires.
(Prior Code, § 900.07) (Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 8-7-2023)
NOISE
§ 94.40 PURPOSE.
   It is found and declared that:
   (A)   The making and creating of excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud
noises within the village limits is a condition which has existed for some time
and to the extent and volume of the noises is increasing;
   (B)   The making, creating, or maintaining of the excessive, unnecessary,
unnatural, or unusually loud noises which are prolonged, unusual, and unnatural
in their time, place, use, and effect are a detriment to the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare, and prosperity of the residents of the
village; and
   (C)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions contained and enacted in this subchapter are declared as a matter
of legislative determination and public policy, and it is further declared that
provisions and prohibitions contained and enacted in this subchapter are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare, and prosperity and the peace and quiet
of the village and its inhabitants.
(Prior Code, § 303.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.41 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause noise or any
noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace, or safety of others within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 303.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.42 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The operation of any sound-producing instrument on public or private
property in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet
from the building, structure, or vehicle in which it is located, is deemed to
be an unnecessary noise and a violation of this code, except sound emanating
from industrially zoned property produced by manufacturing process or other
industrial operations.
   (B)   The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noise in violation of this subchapter, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive.
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar, or other vehicle on
any street or public place of the village, except as a danger warning; the
creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonable loud or
harsh sounds and the sounding of the device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time; the use of any signaling device, except when one operated by
hand of electricity; the use of any horn, whistle, or other device operated by
engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for
any reason held up.
      (2)   Radios, phonographs, and the like. The using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used, or operated any radio, receiving set, stereo,
musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such a manner so as to be plainly audible at a distance
of 50 feet from the building, structure, or vehicle in which it is located.
      (3)   Loudspeakers; amplifiers for advertising. The use, operation, or
permission to be played, used, or operated any radio, receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public
street for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of
the public to any building or structure.
      (4)   Yelling, shouting, and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling, or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the
comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.
      (5)   Animals; birds. The keeping of any animal or bird, which by causing
frequent or continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person
in the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 303.03) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Section
94.04. An owner who refuses to destroy noxious weeds, as provided for in §§
94.01 through
94.07, is subject to a fine of not more than $100, that when collected shall
become a part of the Noxious Weed Control Fund of the village.
(Prior Code, § 842.04)
   (C)   Sections
94.20 through
94.25.
      (1)   Collection of fee. The Fire Chief may collect a fee, based on costs
incurred by the village, when the Fire Department is called upon to investigate
or extinguish a fire which has been kindled or maintained in violation of this
subchapter. The fee shall be charged to the occupants of the premises where the
violation occurs. The fee shall not be less than $100, except that if a similar
violation occurs on the same premises within any 90-day period, the minimum fee
to be charged for a second and any succeeding violation shall not be less than
$200. Charges for Fire Department services under this division (C)(1) which
remain unpaid for a period of 30 days or more may be placed as a lien on the
premises where the violation occurred; provided, however, that no lien shall be
placed on the premises until the owner has been served with a notice to show
cause for the Council as to why a lien should not be placed on the premises.
Following a show cause hearing, the Council may waive a lien if it appears that
the owner of the premises has cooperated with the village in the collection of
Fire Department fees.
(Prior Code, § 900.08)
      (2)   Duty to correct. Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of
the provisions of §§
94.20 through
94.25 is also required to correct or remedy the violation or noncompliance
within a reasonable time. The imposition of a penalty shall not excuse the
violation or noncompliance or permit it to continue.
(Prior Code, § 900.09)
   (D)   Sections
94.40 through
94.42.
      (1)   Violations. Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
94.40 through
94.42 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $100 or
more than $200 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not exceeding
90 days, or both the fine and imprisonment. Each day the violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punished as such.
(Prior Code, § 303.04)
      (2)   Subsequent violations. Any person violating any of the provisions
of §§
94.40 through
94.42 for a second time within a three-month period shall, upon conviction, be
punished by a fine of not less than $200 or more than $500 or by imprisonment
in the County Jail for a period of not less than 30 days, or more than 90 days,
or by both the fine and imprisonment. Each day the violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished
as such. In addition, the instrument causing the sound shall be seized by the
Village Police Department as contraband and dealt with as any other seized
contraband.
(Prior Code, § 303.05)
      (3)   Additional remedy; injunction. As an additional remedy, the
operation or maintenance of any device, instrument, vehicle, or machinery in
violation of §§
94.40 through
94.42 and which causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons of normal
sensitiveness or which endangers the comfort, repose, health, tranquility, or
peace of residents in the area shall be deemed and is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or
injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 303.06)
(Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 8-7-2023)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING POLICY
Section
   
95.01   Fair Housing Policy statement
§ 95.01 FAIR HOUSING POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   Equal housing opportunity for all persons, regardless of race, color,
national origin, religion, age, sex, marital status, HIV-positive status, or
disability, is a fundamental policy of the village. The village is committed to
diligence in assuring equal housing opportunity and nondiscrimination to all
aspects of its housing financing activities. The village has an ethical as well
as legal imperative to work aggressively to ensure that housing programs comply
fully with all state and federal fair housing laws. The village has appointed
the Village Manager as its fair housing contact person and the village will
maintain a Fair Housing Log that shall disclose information relating to any and
all fair housing concerns and their outcomes. Persons wishing to file a
complaint will be referred to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and
the State Department of Civil Rights. MSHDA will be notified by the Village
Manager if a complaint is filed.
   (B)   The offices of the village are accessible and barrier free. The
village will make every attempt to reasonably accommodate all of its customers.
   (C)   The village will post a fair housing poster in a place visible to the
public and will obtain literature pertaining to fair housing provided by MSHDA
for distribution. "Fair Housing, It’s Your Right" brochures will also be
distributed to all applicants.
   (D)   The village will consider all applicants and contractors based on
qualifications. No applicant or contractor will be denied access based on his
or her race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age, family status, HIV-
positive status, or disability. Person(s) raising concerns regarding
discrimination will not be retaliated against.
   (E)   The village is committed to a positive relationship with individuals.
The village will identify their fair housing needs and/or barriers and will
work toward resolving any of these concerns in a reasonable manner.
   (F)   The village is committed to providing safe, affordable, decent, and
sanitary housing located in areas where people choose to live.
Statutory reference:
   This section is in compliance with the Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
3601 et seq.
CHAPTER 96: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Calhoun County Animal Control Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 96.01 CALHOUN COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Calhoun County Animal Control Ordinance, a copy of which is on file in
the office of the Village Clerk, is adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   LICENSING
         
111.   SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Purpose
   
110.03   License
   
110.04   Display of license
   
110.05   Application for license
   
110.06   Issuance of license
   
110.07   Term of license
   
110.08   License fees
   
110.09   Exemptions from licensing
   
110.10   Denial or revocation of license
   
110.11   Confiscation
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, slug, or piece of metal, operates or may be operated for use as a game,
contest, or amusement of any description, or which may be used for any such
game, contest, or amusement and which contains no automatic paying device for
the return of slugs, money, coins, tokens, or merchandise.
   MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICE. Any machine or mechanism from and by which
recorded or transcribed music is played after the insertion of a coin, slug, or
piece of metal.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit or pledge of personal
property, or other valuable thing, other than securities or printed evidence of
indebtedness, or who deals in the purchasing of personal property or other
valuable thing on condition of selling the same back again at a stipulated
price.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person whose principal business is that of
purchasing, storing, selling, exchanging, or receiving secondhand personal
property of any kind or description.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person intending to remain in business in the
village for less than one year who:
      (1)   Offers for sale tangible personal property or personal services; or
      (2)   Takes or attempts to take orders for the sale of tangible personal
property or services, including advertising or subscriptions to be furnished or
performed in the future.
(Prior Code, § 420.01)
§ 110.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to regulate certain merchants and
devices in the village in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of the village; to maintain a record of those merchants and
devices in order to protect the citizens of the village from fraudulent
business practices; and to prevent persons convicted of fraudulent or dishonest
business practices from doing business within the village.
(Prior Code, § 420.02)
§ 110.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mechanical amusement
device, mechanical musical device, pool table, billiard table, card table, or
any table of any kind for playing games as part of a business in the village
without first obtaining a license as herein provided.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
pawnbroker, secondhand dealer, or transient merchant in the village without
first obtaining a license as herein provided. However, no license shall be
required for transient merchants who go in or upon private residences at the
request of the owner or owners, occupant or occupants, of the residences for
the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of merchandise and/or delivering
merchandise ordered.
(Prior Code, § 420.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Licenses required for mechanical amusement devices or mechanical
musical devices shall be affixed to the devices; provided, however, that the
licenses may be transferred from one machine to another if the original machine
is replaced during the year.
   (B)   Each transient merchant shall, at all times while doing business in
this village, keep in his or her possession the license required by this
chapter and shall, upon request, display the license as evidence of compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Every other person required to obtain a license shall post that
license in some conspicuous spot at the place of business as evidence of
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 420.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license shall give the following information:
   (A)   The name of the applicant;
   (B)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business;
   (C)   In the case of a transient merchant, the name or names of the person
or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant’s business
during the time that it is proposed it will be carried on in the village, and
the local address or addresses of the person;
   (D)   The permanent address or addresses of the applicant; whether the
applicant will act as proprietor, agent, consignee, or employee, and the
credentials establishing the relationship; the name and address of the person
for whose account the business will be carried on, if any; and if a
corporation, the state under which it is incorporated;
   (E)   The place or places in the village where it is proposed that the
applicant will conduct business, and if applicable, the length of time during
which it is proposed that the business will be conducted;
   (F)   The place or places where the applicant, during the three immediately
preceding years, conducted the business, and stating the nature of the
business;
   (G)   If applicable, a statement of the nature and character of any tangible
personal property or service to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in
the village; whether the property is new, damaged, or rejected; whether the
property is proposed to be sold from stock in possession or by sample, at
auction, by direct sales or by taking orders for future delivery; where the
property proposed to be sold is manufactured or produced; and where the
property is located at the time this application is filed;
   (H)   A current state sales tax license number and a copy of the license;
   (I)   A statement acknowledging that the applicant understands that a
criminal records check on the applicant and all employees of the applicant who
will carry out the business of the applicant in the village will be conducted
by the village;
   (J)   In the case of mechanical amusement devices, mechanical musical
devices, pool tables, billiard tables, card tables, or tables of any kind for
playing games, the number and kind of devices/tables proposed to be operated.
(Prior Code, § 420.05)
§ 110.06 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   If the application contains a complete statement of the information
required, and if all material required to be submitted therewith has been
received, the village shall, within 21 days, determine whether or not to issue
a license. If the decision of the village is to issue the license, the license
shall be issued by the Village Clerk within three days after the decision and
upon payment of the fee. The license issued pursuant to this chapter shall not
be transferable, except as provided in §
110.04(A). There shall be no refund of the license fee. If the decision of the
village is to not issue the license, the applicant shall be advised, in
writing, mailed to the applicant’s last known address, of the reasons for the
disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 420.06)
§ 110.07 TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The term of a license for a transient merchant shall be for the length
of time set forth in the application.
   (B)   The term of all other licenses shall be for one year. If a license is
applied for after January 31, the fee shall be pro rated from that time to the
last day of December in that year. In determining the pro ration, no fractions
of months shall be considered. However, in the case of secondhand dealers, the
license shall be for the period of one year from the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 420.07)
§ 110.08 LICENSE FEES.
   Before a license shall be issued, the applicant shall pay a license fee
according to a schedule of fees which shall be adopted by the Council from time
to time by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 420.08)
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSING.
   Persons engaged in the following described activities are exempt from the
duty of applying for a license pursuant to this chapter:
   (A)   Persons selling at wholesale to merchants for the purpose of resale;
   (B)   Persons selling or distributing newspapers;
   (C)   Persons selling tangible personal property or services to business
enterprises;
   (D)   Persons who sell, at their residences, works of art or crafts made or
created by the person or a member of that person's immediate family;
   (E)   Persons selling tangible personal property at a garage, basement, or
yard sale held at one of the person's premises, if permitted by the zoning
code;
   (F)   Persons conducting and selling admissions to or for theatrical shows,
rides, sports and games, concerts, circuses, or any other public amusement
where no sales of other products are involved, and where the sales of the
admissions are made on the premises where the event is to be conducted;
   (G)   Charitable, religious, patriotic, social service, civic, or political
nonprofit organizations where authorized representatives volunteer to undertake
activities of a transient merchant without remuneration and where the entire
proceeds of the activities will go to the organization and not for private
profit; and
   (H)   Schools where students undertake activities of a transient merchant
without remuneration and where the entire proceeds of the activities will go to
the school and not for private profit.
(Prior Code, § 420.09)
§ 110.10 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The village shall deny a license to an applicant only if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to complete the application;
      (2)   The applicant or his or her officers, agents, employees, or
employer have, within two years of the date of application under consideration:
         (a)   Held a license under this chapter that was revoked under
division (B) below;
         (b)   Been denied a similar license in another jurisdiction, or had
such a license revoked; or
         (c)   Been convicted of a crime involving fraud, deceit,
misrepresentation, moral turpitude, or injury to a person.
      (3)   The applicant does not have a current state sales tax license.
   (B)   The village may revoke a license issued under this chapter by sending
a notice of revocation by certified mail to the license holder at the holder’s
last known address, or personal service on the holder or his or her agents or
officers. A license shall be revoked only if any of the following apply:
      (1)   If the license holder made false or misleading statements on the
application; or
      (2)   Upon the conviction of the license holder or his or her officers,
agents, employees, or employer for:
         (a)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Violations of any ordinance or statute regulating the sales
activities of the license holder; or
         (c)   A crime involving fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, moral
turpitude, or injury to a person.
(Prior Code, § 420.10)
§ 110.11 CONFISCATION.
   Any mechanical amusement device, pool table, billiard table, card table, or
table of any kind for playing games being operated in violation of this chapter
may be seized and destroyed in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 420.11)
CHAPTER 111: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
111.01   Special event defined
   
111.02   Permit required; location requirements
   
111.03   Permit application; time of filing
   
111.04   Garbage and litter removal required
   
111.05   Indemnification
   
111.06   Permit conditions
   
111.07   Permit issuance
   
111.08   Permit issuance or denial; notice
   
111.09   Waiver of time limitations
   
111.10   Permit revocation
   
111.11   Non-violation of ordinances
§ 111.01 SPECIAL EVENT DEFINED.
   For purposes of this chapter, a SPECIAL EVENT means a block party, festival,
celebration, concert or any similar occurrence or event to be conducted for a
charitable, historical, educational or public or civic purpose and not for
profit within any zoned district within the Village of Homer.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall participate in, advertise for or in any way promote,
organize, control, manage, solicit or induce participation in a special event
unless a permit has first been approved by the Village Council. No person shall
violate any of the terms of a permit issued for a special event or the terms of
this chapter, nor join or participate in any permitted activity under this
chapter over the objection of a permit holder or in any manner interfere with
the progress or orderly conduct of a special event.
   (B)   A person shall be allowed to conduct a special event in any zoned area
within the Village of Homer if he or she or it has first secured a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.03 PERMIT APPLICATION; TIME OF FILING.
   (A)   Application for permit. An application for a permit for the holding of
a special event shall be made upon a form provided by the Village Manager and
shall contain all of the following information:
      (1)   The name, residence and business address and telephone number of
each person and organization sponsoring the special event. If an organization,
the application shall contain the name, residence and business addresses of the
president or chairman thereof;
      (2)   The date or dates and the beginning and ending hours of the special
event;
      (3)   The designation of the street address or intersection in which the
special event will be conducted or occur;
      (4)   Specification of any streets or intersections which the applicant
is asking to be closed on a temporary basis;
      (5)   Whether parking is requested to be restricted or prohibited during
the special event and, if so, in what areas;
      (6)   Whether any sound amplification equipment is proposed to be used
and, if so, information describing such sound amplification equipment;
      (7)   Whether charity, gratuity or offerings will be solicited or
accepted or sales of approved beverages or other merchandise will occur;
      (8)   Such other information as the Village Manager deems reasonably
necessary in order to carry out his or her duties under this chapter; and
      (9)   Additional information may be required at the discretion of the
Village Manager.
   (B)   Time of filing. The application for a permit shall be filed with the
Village Manager not less than seven days prior to the scheduled date of the
Village Council meeting to act upon the request. Failure to file on time will
result in the denial of a permit.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.04 GARBAGE AND LITTER REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   Applicants shall provide for the collection and removal of all trash,
garbage, and litter caused by or arising out of the special event.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Applicants shall agree in writing to assume the defense of and indemnify and
save harmless the village, its Council persons, boards, officers, employees and
agents, from all suits, actions, damages or claims to which the village may be
subjected, of any kind or nature whatsoever, resulting from, caused by, arising
out of or as a consequence of the special event.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.06 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Any permit granted under this chapter may contain conditions reasonably
calculated to reduce or minimize the dangers and hazards to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic and the public health, safety, tranquility, morals or
welfare, including, but not limited to, changes in time, duration, number of
participants or noise levels.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.07 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   A permit shall be issued conditionally by the Village Council, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, that all of the following circumstances exist:
   (A)   The applicant has not knowingly and with intent to deceive, made any
false, misleading or fraudulent statements of material fact in the application
for a permit or in any other document required pursuant to this chapter;
   (B)   The applicant has met the standards in this chapter and agrees to such
conditions as are imposed in the permit;
   (C)   The time, the duration and size of the special event will not
substantially disrupt the safe movement of traffic;
   (D)   Any required or necessary street closure is of a size or nature such
that it will not require the diversion of so great a number of police officers
so as to prevent normal police protection to the village;
   (E)   The concentration of persons will not unduly interfere with proper
fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to
that area where the special event is being held; and
   (F)   Any required or necessary temporary street closure will not unduly
interfere with the moving of fire-fighting equipment on the way to a fire and,
further, will not unduly interfere with the orderly operation of parks,
hospitals, churches, schools or other public and quasi-public institutions of
the village.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.08 PERMIT ISSUANCE OR DENIAL; NOTICE.
   Written notice of the issuance or denial of the permit shall be provided to
the applicant within five days of review by the Village Council. If a permit is
denied, said written notice shall state the reason for denial.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.09 WAIVER OF TIME LIMITATIONS.
   For good cause shown, the Village Manager may waive the time limitation.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.10 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any permit for a special event issued pursuant to this chapter may be
revoked by the Village Manager at any time when, by reason of emergency,
disaster, calamity, disorder, riot, extreme traffic conditions, violation of
this chapter or any permit conditions, or undue burden on public services, he
or she determines that the health, safety, tranquility, morals or welfare of
the public or the safety of any property requires such revocation. Notice of
revocation of the permit shall be delivered in writing to at least one person
named upon the permit by personal service or by certified mail, or if the
closure has commenced, orally, or in writing, by personal contact or service,
or by telephone. Continuance after such notice has been delivered is unlawful.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 111.11 NON-VIOLATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The Village Manager will have the authority to approve any permit that
doesn't violate any ordinances.
(Ord. -, passed 3-2-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   UNLAWFUL ACTIONS
         
131.   SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF PROPERTY FROM UNLAWFUL ACTIONS
CHAPTER 130: UNLAWFUL ACTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.001   Definitions
   
130.002   Attempted violations
Offenses Against the Person
   
130.015   Assault and battery
   
130.016   Malicious acts
   
130.017   Window peeping; prowling
   
130.018   Fraud
Offenses Against Property
   
130.030   Private property; malicious destruction
   
130.031   Public property; malicious destruction
   
130.032   Littering; commercial waste
   
130.033   Graffiti
   
130.034   Taking or harming gardens, trees, shrubs, vines
   
130.035   Damage to library materials
   
130.036   Larceny from libraries
   
130.037   Trespass generally
   
130.038   Unauthorized entrance; private parking area
Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
130.050   Misrepresentation of identity
   
130.051   Disturbing the peace
   
130.052   Public consumption of alcohol; disorderly intoxication
   
130.053   Gatherings, meetings
   
130.054   Jostling
   
130.055   False alarms
   
130.056   Loitering
   
130.057   Usage of public parks and trails
   
130.058   Indecent or obscene conduct
   
130.059   Inhalation of model glue
   
130.060   Fireworks
   
130.061   Throwing stones or missiles
   
130.062   Firearms
   
130.063   Hunting
Offenses Involving Minors
   
130.080   Definitions
   
130.081   Curfew
   
130.082   Responsibility of parents and others
   
130.083   Special function exemption
   
130.084   Curfew violation procedure
   
130.085   Spray paint
   
130.086   Aiding and abetting minors
 
   
130.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.001 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever any words and phrases as used in this chapter are not defined, but
are defined in the State Penal Code, the State Penal Code definition shall be
deemed to apply to those words and phrases.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 130.002 ATTEMPTED VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to commit an offense
prohibited by this chapter and, in the attempt, shall do any act towards the
commission of the offense, but shall fail in the perpetration or shall be
intercepted or prevented in the execution of same, where no express provision
is made by code for the punishment of the attempt. However, in no case shall
imprisonment for the violation exceed one-half the greatest punishment which
might have been inflicted if the offense so attempted had been committed.
(Prior Code, § 302.01) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
§ 130.015 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to attempt or offer,
with force or violence, to do a corporal hurt to another, or assault and/or
batter any other person.
(Prior Code, § 302.03) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.016 MALICIOUS ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously use any service provided
by a communications common carrier with the intent to terrorize, frighten,
intimidate, threaten, harass, molest, or annoy any other person, or to disturb
the peace and quiet of any other person by any of the following:
   (A)   Threatening physical harm or damage to any person or property in the
course of a telephone conversation;
   (B)   Falsely and deliberately reporting by telephone or telegraph message
that any person has been injured, has suddenly taken ill, has suffered death,
or has been the victim of a crime or of an accident;
   (C)   Deliberately refusing or failing to disengage a connection between a
telephone and another telephone, or between a telephone and other equipment
provided for the transmission of messages by telephone, thereby interfering
with any communications service; and/or
   (D)   Using any vulgar, indecent, obscene, or offensive language or
suggesting any lewd or lascivious act in the course of a telephone
conversation.
(Prior Code, § 302.03) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.017 WINDOW PEEPING; PROWLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer, or peep into, or be
found loitering around, or within view of any window not on his or her own
property, with the intent of looking through the window in such a manner as
would be likely to interfere with the occupant’s reasonable expectation of
privacy, without the occupant’s express or implied consent.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prowl about any alley or the
private premises of any person in the nighttime, without authority or the
permission of the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 302.01) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.018 FRAUD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to engage in any
fraudulent scheme, device, or trick to obtain money or other valuable thing, or
to aid or abet, or in any manner to be concerned therein.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.030 PRIVATE PROPERTY; MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to willfully and
maliciously destroy or injure the real or personal property of another, or the
appurtenances thereof, and where the damage done shall be $100 or less. A
complaint for violation of this section may be made by the property owner, his
or her agent, or his or her lessee or any person with custody and control of
the premises.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.031 PUBLIC PROPERTY; MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to maliciously
destroy, damage, injure, mar, or deface any building, monument, sign, or
structure or fence, tree, shrub, plant, park, or public property of any kind
which is owned, controlled, or managed by the state, county, village, any
school district within the village, or by any other unit or agency of
government whose operating budget is raised in whole or in part by public
taxation, or to commit any act of vandalism on or in any such property.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.032 LITTERING; COMMERCIAL WASTE.
   (A)   Littering. It shall be unlawful for any person to litter or permit to
be littered on any of the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other public places
within the village by throwing, depositing, tracking, dropping, dumping, or
spilling any trash, paper, dirt, mud, leaves, grass clippings, garbage, debris,
or other materials, or to deposit or cause the same to be deposited upon or
permit the same to be accumulated upon any premises other than those designated
as official village dumps. Exception to this only by approval of the Village
Manager.
   (B)   Commercial waste. It shall be unlawful to discharge any commercial or
industrial water or any polluted or contaminated waste upon the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, or gutters within the village at any time.
   (C)   Enforcement. All officers of the Police Department, as well as other
village employees officially designated as code police, are hereby charged with
enforcement of this section and are authorized to issue violation tickets for
any violation of this section.
   (D)   Presumptions. In a proceeding for violation of this section involving
litter from a motor vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the
citation, complaint or warrant was used in the violation, together with proof
that the defendant named in the citation, complaint, or warrant was the
registered owner of the vehicle at the time of the violation, constitutes in
evidence a presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the driver
of the vehicle at the time of the violation. The driver of a vehicle is
presumed to be responsible for litter which is thrown, deposited, dropped,
dumped, spilled, placed, or left from the vehicle upon public or private
property.
   (E)   Accident cleanup. It shall be unlawful for a person who removes a
vehicle wrecked or damaged in an accident on a highway, road, or street to fail
to remove all glass and other injurious substances dropped on the highway,
road, or street as a result of the accident.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) (Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 4-4-2022) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.033 GRAFFITI.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use spray paint or any other
means of marking the property of others to injure, destroy, or in furtherance
of the practice of placing graffiti on the property of others. The owner of any
property defaced through the use of spray paint or other device shall remove or
paint over the graffiti as soon as possible after discovery of its existence so
as to preclude further vandalism or decay of the structure or immediate
surroundings.
   (B)   If the individual violating this section shall be under the age of 18
years, to the extent practical, the individual shall be required to remove the
graffiti, repaint the structure defaced, or otherwise restore the premises.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to painting of "the rock" located in the
front yard of the Homer Community School Building at 403 South Hillsdale.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.034 TAKING OR HARMING GARDENS, TREES, SHRUBS, VINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wrongfully take and carry away from
any place within the village any fruit tree, ornamental tree, shade tree,
ornamental shrub, or any plant, vine, bush, or vegetable there growing with the
intent to deprive the owner thereof, or without right and with wrongful intent,
to detach from the ground or injure any such plant.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.035 DAMAGE TO LIBRARY MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, maliciously, or wantonly
tear, deface, or mutilate or write upon, or by other means injure or mar any
book, pamphlet, map, chart, painting, picture, photograph, periodical,
newspaper, magazine, manuscript, film, microfilm, phonograph, record,
recording, or exhibit or any part thereof, belonging to any public library.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.036 LARCENY FROM LIBRARIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to procure, or take in any way
from any public library, any book, pamphlet, map, chart, painting, picture,
photograph, periodical, newspaper, magazine, manuscript, film, microfilm,
phonograph, record, recording, or exhibit or any part thereof, with intent to
convert the same to his or her own use, or with the intent to defraud the owner
thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, having procured or taken from any
public library, any book, pamphlet, map, chart, painting, picture, photograph,
periodical, newspaper, magazine, manuscript, film, microfilm, phonograph,
record, recording, or exhibit or any part thereof, to thereafter convert the
same to his or her own use or fraudulently deprive the owner thereof.
   (C)   The failure of any person to return library material in accordance
with the rules of the library shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
intent to convert or defraud, provided that the person having procured or taken
library material shall not have returned same within five days after receiving
notice that the library material was overdue.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.037 TRESPASS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully enter upon the lands or
premises of another without lawful authority, after having been forbidden to do
so, or after the lands or premises have been previously posted with a
conspicuous notice forbidding any trespass thereon by the owner or occupant, or
agent or servant of the owner or occupant, or for any person to be upon the
land or premises of another, upon being notified to depart therefrom by the
owner or occupant, or agent or servant of either, and who, without lawful
authority neglects or refuses to depart therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.038 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRANCE; PRIVATE PARKING AREA.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon or loiter upon any
private parking area, either in a vehicle or on foot, without the express or
implied permission of the owner, lessee, occupant, or agent.
   (B)   Before this section shall be effective in any parking area, suitable
signs must first be posted which would apprise the ordinarily observant person
of the restricted use of the parking area. For the purpose of this section,
implied permission shall be deemed granted to any person for the use designated
by the signs. Implied permission shall not be deemed granted to any person,
found upon any private parking areas after business hours of the owner, lessee,
occupant, or agent of the parking area.
   (C)   The posting of signs upon a parking area pursuant to this section
shall constitute authority by the owner, lessee, occupant, or agent of the
property for the Police Department to enforce this section.
   (D)   Complaint for violation of this section may be made by the owner,
lessee, or occupant of the parking area, the agent thereof, or the Police
Department, and the Police Department shall enforce this section.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
§ 130.050 MISREPRESENTATION OF IDENTITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make misrepresentations as to his or
her identity, whether by statement, through the use of false, forged, or
altered identification or the use or presentation of identification of another,
with intent to obstruct the due execution of the law, or with the intent to
hinder or interrupt any officer in the legal performance of his or her duty,
whether the intent be effected or not.
(Prior Code, § 302.01) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.051 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the public peace and
quiet by loud or boisterous conduct, and to permit or suffer any place occupied
or controlled by him or her to be a resort of loud or boisterous conduct.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any disturbance,
fight, or quarrel in a public place.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to collect or stand in crowds, or arrange,
encourage, or abet the collection of persons in crowds for illegal or
mischievous purposes in any public place.
(Prior Code, § 302.05) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Loitering, see §
130.057
§ 130.052 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL; DISORDERLY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Consumption of alcoholic beverages on public sidewalks, highways, and
streets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to consume
any alcoholic beverages on a public sidewalk, highway, or street, or in a
vehicle which is moving, standing, or parked on a public street. A public
highway or street shall include parking lots or any place open to the public
generally, such as, but not limited to, school parking lots.
      (2)   Any person who possesses or has under his or her control an open
container which is partially filled with any alcoholic beverage on a public
highway or street or in a vehicle which is moving, standing, or parked on a
public highway, parking lot, or street shall be presumed to have consumed the
beverage in violation of this section.
   (B)   Disorderly intoxication. It shall be unlawful for any person within
the village to be intoxicated in a public place and to either endanger directly
the safety of another person or of property or act in a manner that causes a
public disturbance.
(Prior Code, § 302.05) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.053 GATHERINGS, MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to willfully
interrupt or disturb on any day of the week any assembly of people met for the
worship of God within the place of the meeting or out of it, or to make or
excite any disturbance or contention in any tavern, dance hall, beer garden,
store or grocery, manufacturing establishment, or any other business place or
in any street, lane, alley, highway, public building, ground, or park or at any
election or other public meeting in the village where any persons are peaceably
and lawfully assembled.
(Prior Code, § 302.05) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.054 JOSTLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to be found jostling
or roughly crowding people unnecessarily in a public place.
(Prior Code, § 302.05) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.055 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to summon as a joke or prank or otherwise without
any good reason therefor, by telephone or otherwise, the police or any public
or private ambulance to go to any address where the service called for is not
needed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully commit
any one or more of the following actions:
      (1)   Raise any false alarm of fire at any gathering or in any public
place;
      (2)   Ring any bell or operate any mechanical apparatus, electrical
apparatus, or combination thereof, for the purpose of creating a false alarm of
a fire; and/or
      (3)   Raise a false alarm of fire orally, by telephone, or in person.
(Prior Code, § 302.02) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.056 LOITERING.
   (A)   Loitering; generally.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentiality one location and shall
include the concept of spending time idly; to be dilatory; to linger; to stay;
to saunter; to delay; to stand around and also includes the colloquial
expression "hanging around."
         PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the general public has access and a
right of resort for business, entertainment, or for lawful purpose, but does
not necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall
also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant,
tavern, or other place of business and also public grounds, areas, or parks.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to loiter,
loaf, wander, stand, or remain idle, either alone or in consort with others, in
a public place in such a manner so as to:
         (a)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or
any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or
pedestrians;
         (b)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk, or any public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk, or any other public
place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress,
egress, and regress therein, thereon; and/or
         (c)   Obstruct the entrance to any business establishment, without so
doing for some lawful purpose, if contrary to the expressed wish of the owner,
lessee, managing agent, or person in control or charge of the building or
premises.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter in or about any
parking lot or other area set aside for the parking of vehicles in any park. It
shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in any park for the
purpose of displaying or exhibiting same or for the purpose of offering the
same for sale or for the purpose of performing mechanical work or cleaning,
washing, or polishing same and engage in any display, exhibition, gathering,
demonstration, parade, or other gathering within the parking lot or other area
set aside for the parking of vehicles in any park without a permit or written
authorization by the village.
(Prior Code, § 302.05)
   (B)   Loitering; near places of illegal occupation or business. It shall be
unlawful for any person within the village to knowingly loiter in or about any
place where an illegal occupation or business is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 302.01) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.057 USAGE OF PUBLIC PARKS AND TRAILS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, occupy, frequent, loiter,
or be in any public park in the village between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m. unless otherwise posted at the park, unless a special permit for the
use or occupancy has been previously given by the village, or unless the person
is participating in a scheduled village activity.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall be made in writing by any
responsible resident of the village, stating his or her name and address and
the group of persons he or she represents who will use the special permit and
the proposed hours of the use. The approval for the issuance of the special
permit rests in the sound direction of the village.
   (C)   All persons using park property shall dispose of litter in receptacles
provided.
   (D)   No person shall pollute any lake, stream, creek, ditch, drain or
waterways.
   (E)   No person shall build a fire except in an approved provided cooking
appliance and every person shall extinguish all fires prior to leaving the
area.
   (F)   All persons shall pay appropriate fees for use of the park, if
required by the Village Council.
   (G)   No person may hunt, trap, feed, or endanger animals or birds in any
way except fishing unless authorized by the Village Manager.
   (H)   No camping shall be allowed in the park, unless authorized by the
Village Manager.
   (I)   No person shall operate any recreational vehicles in the park as
defined in the zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) (Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 4-4-2022) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.058 INDECENT OR OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public, and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to engage in
any indecent or obscene conduct in any public place.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to utter vile, profane, or
obscene language in any public place.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral,
or obscene conduct in any public place.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to swim or bathe in any public place without
wearing the proper apparel.
(Prior Code, § 302.06) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.059 INHALATION OF MODEL GLUE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MODEL GLUE. Any glue, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope, plastic solvent,
or other adhesive of the type commonly used in the construction of model
airplanes, automobiles, boats, and other unassembled model kits, containing
toluene, acetone, xylene, butyl alcohol, hexane, tricresyl phosphate, or other
toxic ingredient.
   (B)   Inhalation of fumes. It shall be unlawful for any person to inhale,
drink, eat, or otherwise introduce into his or her respiratory or circulatory
system any compound, liquid, chemical, or any substance known as glue, adhesive
cement, mucilage, dope, plastic solvent, or combination thereof with the intent
of becoming intoxicated, elated, dazed, paralyzed, irrational, or in any manner
changing, distorting the eyesight, thinking process, judgment, balance, or
coordination of the person. For the purpose of this section, any such condition
so induced shall be deemed to be an intoxicated condition.
   (C)   Aiding and abetting violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to,
for the purpose of violating or aiding another to violate any provision of this
section, intentionally possess, buy, sell, transfer possession, or receive
possession of any model glue. It shall be unlawful for any person to assist,
aid, abet, or encourage any person to violate any provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 302.06) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.060 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall ignite, discharge, display or use consumer fireworks,
except as permitted by the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et
seq.
   (B)    On those days specified by Section 7 of the Michigan Fireworks Safety
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 28.457, no person shall ignite, discharge or use consumer
fireworks other than during those times specifically permitted by that Act.
   (C)   On all other days, no person shall ignite, discharge or use consumer
fireworks between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m.
   (D)   No person shall ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks on public
property, school property, church property or the property of another person
without that organization’s or person’s expressed permission to use those
fireworks on those premises.
   (E)   As used in this section, the term CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall have the
same meaning it has in the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-3-2013; Am. Ord. -, passed 11-4-2019) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.061 THROWING STONES OR MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to throw any stone,
brick, or any other missile at any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 302.07) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.062 FIREARMS.
   (A)   Reckless, wanton use of a firearm. It shall be unlawful for any person
in the village to recklessly, heedlessly, willfully, or wantonly use, carry, or
handle any firearm without due caution and circumspection for the rights,
safety, or property of others.
   (B)   Discharge of firearms prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to discharge or cause to be discharged any firearm of any kind whatever, any
air gun, pellet gun, air revolver, air pistol, pellet revolver, pellet pistol,
gas gun, gas revolver, gas pistol or bow and arrow within the corporate limits
of the village, except when in connection with a regularly scheduled
educational or training program under adequate supervision.
   (C)   Careless use of firearms. It shall be unlawful for any person within
the village to intentionally, without malice, point or aim any firearm at or
toward any other person.
(Prior Code, § 302.07) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.063 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the village to hunt wild game, or
in any manner carry any gun, weapon, or firearm within the village for the
purpose of hunting any wild game or fowl at any time.
(Prior Code, § 302.07) Penalty, see §
130.999
Cross-reference:
   Firearms, see §
130.063
   Throwing stones or missiles, see §
130.062
OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
§ 130.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person over the age of 25 years who is in loco parentis to a
juvenile.
   GUARDIAN. Any person, other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
(Prior Code, § 302.08)
§ 130.081 CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain idle, wander, stroll, or play
in any public place either on foot or in any vehicle, moving or parked, or to
cruise about without a set destination in any vehicle in, about or upon any
place in the village between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Sunday
through Thursday, and between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Friday
through Saturday, unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian,
unless the minor is on an emergency errand, or specific business or activity
directed or permitted by his or her parent or guardian or where the presence of
the minor is connected with or required by some legitimate employment, trade,
profession, or occupation.
(Prior Code, § 302.08) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.082 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS AND OTHERS.
   (A)   Parent's responsibility. It shall be unlawful for the parent,
guardian, or other adult person having custody or control of any minor under
the age of 17 years to knowingly suffer or permit or by inefficient control to
allow the person to be on the streets or sidewalks, or on or in any public
property or public place within the village between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m., Friday and Saturday nights. However, the provisions of this division
(A) do not apply to a minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
custodian, or if the minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult having the
care and custody of the minor, or if the parent, guardian, or other adult
person herein has made a missing person notification to the Police Department.
   (B)   Responsibility of owners of public places. It shall be unlawful for
any person operating or having charge of any public place to knowingly permit
or suffer the presence of minors under the age of 17 years between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 am., Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., Friday and Saturday nights.
(Prior Code, § 302.08) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.083 SPECIAL FUNCTION EXEMPTION.
   The curfew provisions contained in this subchapter do not apply to a minor
who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 302.08)
§ 130.084 CURFEW VIOLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any police officer, upon finding a minor in violation of §
130.081, shall ascertain the name and address of the minor. The police officer
shall report the action to the parents, guardian, or person having custody or
control of the minor.
   (B)   If the minor refuses to heed the warning or direction by any police
officer or refuses to give the police officer his or her correct name and
address, or if the minor has been warned on a previous occasion that he or she
is in violation of curfew, he or she shall be taken to the Police Department
and the parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of
the minor shall be notified to come and take charge of the minor. If the
parent, guardian, or other adult person cannot be located or fails to come and
take charge of the minor, the minor shall be released to the juvenile
authorities.
(Prior Code, § 302.08)
§ 130.085 SPRAY PAINT.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall possess, buy, transfer possession,
or receive possession of spray paint. For purposes of this section, SPRAY PAINT
shall mean any adherent, pigmented, substance dispersed in particles, by means
of an atomizer or other simple mechanical instrument or applicator.
(Prior Code, § 302.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.086 AIDING AND ABETTING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to assist, aid, abet, allow, permit, or
encourage any person under the age of 17 years to violate any of the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 302.08) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating § 130.060 shall be responsible for a state civil
infraction and pay a civil fine of $100 for the first offense; $250 for the
second offense; and $500 for the third or subsequent offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
130.061 through
130.063 shall be subject to have confiscated, and every police officer in the
village is hereby authorized to confiscate and take into his or her possession,
any fireworks, air gun, slingshot, bow and arrow, or other similar device and
hold the device as evidence pending the outcome of any court case brought or
filed in connection with any such violation.
      (2)   Any and all air guns, slingshots, bows and arrows, or other similar
devices taken from the possession of any such person who is later convicted of
violating any of the provisions of §§
130.061 through
130.063 shall be confiscated as a nuisance and destroyed or disposed of by the
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 302.07) (Am. Ord. 2013-03, passed 9-3-2013)
   (C)   A violation of §
130.081 shall be a civil infraction, and a person who violates §
130.081 shall be liable for a civil fine in the amount of $100.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 1-8-2001)
CHAPTER 131: SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF PROPERTY FROM UNLAWFUL ACTIONS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Court order
   
131.03   Seizure without court order
   
131.04   Application for seizure
   
131.05   Notice
   
131.06   Hearing
   
131.07   Return of seized property
   
131.08   Notice of return of property or lien discharge
   
131.09   Claims against or for seized property
   
131.10   Jurisdiction; venue
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise excepted by law, all personal property that is the
proceeds of a crime, the substituted proceeds of a crime, or an instrumentality
of a crime is subject to seizure by and forfeiture to the village.
Instrumentality of a crime means any property, other than real property, which
contributes directly and materially to the commission of a crime.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.02 COURT ORDER.
   Personal property subject to forfeiture may be seized by the Police
Department pursuant to an order of seizure issued by the court upon showing of
probable cause that the property is subject to forfeiture.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.03 SEIZURE WITHOUT COURT ORDER.
   Personal property subject to forfeiture under this chapter may be seized by
the Police Department without process under any of the following circumstances:
   (A)   Incident to lawful arrest. The property is the proceeds of a crime or
an instrumentality of a crime and the seizure is incidental to a lawful arrest;
   (B)   Search warrant. The seizure is pursuant to a valid search;
   (C)   Administrative inspection warrant. The seizure is pursuant to an
inspection under a valid administrative inspection warrant;
   (D)   Dangerous to health or safety. There is probable cause to believe that
the property is directly or indirectly dangerous to health or safety;
   (E)   Exigent circumstances. Exigent circumstances exist that preclude the
obtaining of a court order, and there is probable cause to believe that the
property is the proceeds of a crime or the instrumentality of a crime; and/or
   (F)   Prior judgment. The property is the subject of a prior judgment for
forfeiture to the village, county, or state.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.04 APPLICATION FOR SEIZURE.
   The Village Attorney may make application for an order authorizing the
seizure of and forfeiture of personal property. The application shall be
supported by a sworn affidavit setting forth probable cause for a forfeiture
action. Upon a showing of probable cause to believe that the property is the
instrumentality of a crime or the proceeds or substituted proceeds of a crime
the court may issue an order authorizing the seizure and/or forfeiture of the
property.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.05 NOTICE.
   (A)   Within seven days after personal property is seized, the village shall
give notice of the seizure of the property and the intent to forfeit and
dispose of the property to each of the following persons:
      (1)   To the person charged with a crime;
      (2)   Each person with a known ownership interest in the property;
      (3)   Each person holding a chattel mortgage or lien appearing on the
title, filed with the Secretary of State or registering agency;
      (4)   Each person with a known security interest; and
      (5)   Each victim of the crime.
   (B)   The notice shall be a written notice delivered to the person or sent
by certified mail. If the name and address of the person are not reasonably
ascertainable or delivery of the notice cannot reasonably be accomplished, the
notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village
for two successive weeks. Proof of written notice or publication shall be filed
with the court.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.06 HEARING.
   (A)   A person who did not have prior knowledge of, or consent to, the
commission of the crime may move to return the property on the grounds that the
property was illegally seized, that the property is not subject to forfeiture,
or that the person has an ownership or security interest in the property and
did not have prior knowledge of, or consent to, the commission of the crime.
The court shall hear the motion within 30 days after the motion is filed.
   (B)   At the hearing, the Village Attorney shall establish:
      (1)   Probable cause to believe that the property is subject to
forfeiture and that the person moving for return of the property had prior
knowledge of or consented to the commission of the crime; and
      (2)   If the person moving for return of the property claims the property
was illegally seized, that the property was properly seized.
   (C)   If the Village Attorney fails to sustain the burden of proof, the
court shall order the return of the property.
   (D)   If a motor vehicle is the property seized, the owner of the vehicle
may move to require the seizing agency to file a lien against the vehicle and
to return the vehicle to the owner. The court shall hear the motion within
seven days after the motion is filed. If the owner of the vehicle establishes
at the hearing that he or she holds the legal title of the vehicle and that it
is necessary for him or her or his or her family to use the vehicle pending the
outcome of the forfeiture action, the court may order the seizing agency to
return the vehicle to the owner. If the court orders the return of the vehicle
to the owner, the court shall order the seizing agency to file a lien against
the vehicle.
   (E)   The testimony of a person at a hearing held under this chapter is not
admissible against him or her in any criminal proceeding except in a criminal
prosecution for perjury. The testimony of a person at a hearing held under this
chapter does not waive the person’s constitutional right against self-
incrimination.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.07 RETURN OF SEIZED PROPERTY.
   Personal property seized pursuant to this chapter shall be returned to the
owner, or any lien filed shall be discharged, within seven days after the
occurrence of any of the following:
   (A)   A warrant is not issued against a person for the commission of a crime
within seven days after the property is seized;
   (B)   All charges against the consenting legal owner relating to the
commission of a crime are dismissed;
   (C)   The consenting legal owner charged with a crime is acquitted of the
crime;
   (D)   In the case of multiple defendants, all persons charged with
committing a crime are acquitted of the crime; and/or
   (E)   Entry of a court order for the return of the property or the discharge
of any lien.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.08 NOTICE OF RETURN OF PROPERTY OR LIEN DISCHARGE.
   Within seven days after personal property is returned to the owner or any
lien filed is discharged, the Village Attorney shall give notice of the return
of property or discharge of lien to the persons who did receive or were
required to be given notice of the seizure.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.09 CLAIMS AGAINST OR FOR SEIZED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Within 21 days after receipt of notice of intent to forfeit property
or after first publication of the notice, a person claiming an interest in the
property may file a claim with the village expressing their interest in the
property. If a claim is filed, the Village Attorney shall institute a civil
action for forfeiture within seven days after the expiration of the 21-day
claim period. If no claim is filed within the 21-day period, the Village
Attorney shall dispose of the property in the following manner. The village may
sell property that is not required to be destroyed by law and that is not
harmful to the public.
   (B)   The proceeds and any money shall be applied in the following order of
priority:
      (1)   Pay any outstanding security interest of a secured party who did
not have prior knowledge of, or consent to the commission of a crime;
      (2)   Satisfy any order of restitution in the prosecution of the crime;
      (3)   Pay the claim of each person who shows that he or she is a victim
of the crime to the extent that the claim is not covered by an order of
restitution;
      (4)   Pay any outstanding lien against the property that has been imposed
by a governmental unit;
      (5)   Pay the proper expense of the proceedings for forfeiture and sale,
including, but not limited to, expenses incurred during the seizure process and
expenses for maintaining custody of the property, advertising and court costs;
and
      (6)   The balance, if any, shall be paid to the village and 75% of the
money shall be used to enhance enforcement of the criminal laws and 25% of the
money shall be used to implement the crime victim's rights act. The Village
Treasurer shall annually report to the State Department of Management and
Budget the amounts and uses of the money received.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
§ 131.10 JURISDICTION; VENUE.
   The district court shall have equitable jurisdiction over forfeiture
proceedings and may hear and determine a forfeiture action or a motion relating
to a forfeiture action, and may issue and enforce any order or judgment
relating to a forfeiture action.
(Prior Code, § 302.01)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING CODES
         
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
152.   ZONING
         
153.   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
   
150.01   Michigan Building and Residential codes adopted
   
150.02   Additions and changes
   
150.03   Michigan Mechanical Code adopted
   
150.04   Additions and changes
   
150.05   Michigan Electrical Code adopted
   
150.06   Appeals
   
150.07   International Property Maintenance Code adopted
   
150.08   Additions and changes
§ 150.01 MICHIGAN BUILDING AND RESIDENTIAL CODES ADOPTED.
   Certain documents, three copies of each of which are on file in the office
of the Village Clerk, being marked and designated as the most recent Michigan
Building and Residential codes, is/are hereby adopted as the building code of
the village; for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided;
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and
terms of the most recent Michigan Building and Residential codes are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any,
prescribed in §
150.02.
(Prior Code, § 820.01) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-11-11)
§ 150.02 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1. Insert: "the Village of Homer";
   (B)   Section 112.3.1. Insert: "as established by resolution of the Village
Council";
   (C)   Section 116.4. Insert: "misdemeanor; Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00);
Ninety (90) days";
   (D)   Section 117.2. Insert: "as established by resolution of the Village
Council";
   (E)   Section 121.2. Change to read: "Membership of board: The board of
appeals shall be the same board that hears appeals under the Mechanical Code,
Electrical Code and Property Maintenance Code and shall consist of three
members appointed by the Village President with the concurrence of the Village
Council as follows: one for three years, one for two years and one for one
year. Thereafter, each new member shall serve for three years or until a
successor has been appointed.";
   (F)   Section 121.2.1. Change to read: "Qualifications: The board of appeals
shall consist of three individuals as follows:
      1.    One state-licensed building contractor;
      2.    One state-licensed electrician;
      3.    One at-large member from the community.
The members shall have such qualifications as the President and Village Council
shall consider essential to enable them to act intelligently and knowledgeably
in matters pertaining to the code.";
   (G)   Section 121.2.2. Change to read: "Alternate members: The President
(with the concurrence of the Village Council) shall appoint an alternate state-
licensed building contractor and an alternate state-licensed electrician who
shall be called by the board chairman to hear appeals during the
disqualification of the regular state-licensed building contractor member or
the regular state-licensed electrician member, respectively. The alternate
members shall be appointed for three years or until a successor has been
appointed, and shall have the qualifications as set forth in Section 121.2.1.";
   (H)   Section 121.2.5. Change to read: "Secretary: The Village President,
with the concurrence of the Village Council, shall appoint a qualified person
to serve as secretary to the board. In case of the absence of the secretary,
the board may appoint one of its members to serve as secretary. The secretary
shall file a detailed record of all proceedings in the office of the chief
administrative officer.";
   (I)   Section 121.2.6. Change to read: "Compensation: Compensation of
members, if any, shall be as established by resolution of the Village
Council.";
   (J)   Section 121.5. Change to read: "Postponed hearing: When three members
are not present to hear an appeal, either the appellant or the appellant’s
representative shall have the right to request a postponement of the hearing.";
   (K)   Section 121.6. Change to read: "Board decision: The board shall modify
or reverse the decision of the code official by a concurring vote of two
members."; and
   (L)   Section 3408.2. Insert: "October 28, 1997".
(Prior Code, § 820.02)
§ 150.03 MICHIGAN MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
Village Clerk, being marked and designated as the most recent Michigan
Mechanical Code, is hereby adopted as the mechanical code of the village; for
the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the most
recent Michigan Mechanical Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions, and changes prescribed in §
150.04.
(Prior Code, § 822.01) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-11-11)
§ 150.04 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1. Insert: "the Village of Homer";
   (B)   Section 106.5.2. Insert: "as established by resolution of the Village
Council";
   (C)   Section 106.5.3. Insert: "seventy-five; seventy-five";
   (D)   Section 108.4. Insert: "misdemeanor; five hundred; ninety days";
   (E)   Section 108.5. Insert: "one hundred; five hundred";
   (F)   Section 109.2. Change to read: "Membership of board: The board of
appeals shall be the same board that hears appeals under the Building Code,
Property Maintenance Code and Electrical Code and shall consist of three
members appointed by the Village President with the concurrence of the Village
Council as follows: one for three years, one for two years and one for one
year. Thereafter, each new member shall serve for three years or until a
successor has been appointed.";
   (G)   Section 109.2.1. Change to read: "Qualifications. The board of appeals
shall consist of three individuals as follows:
      1.    One state-licensed building contractor;
      2.    One state-licensed electrician;
      3.    One at-large member from the community
The members shall have such qualifications as the Village President and Village
Council shall consider essential to enable them to act intelligently and
knowledgeably in matters pertaining to the code.";
   (H)   Section 109.2.2. Change to read: "Alternate members. The Village
President (with the concurrence of the Village Council) shall appoint an
alternate state-licensed building contractor and an alternate state-licensed
electrician who shall be called by the board chairman to hear appeals during
the disqualification of the regular state-licensed building contractor member
or the regular state-licensed electrician member, respectively. The alternate
members shall be appointed for three years or until a successor has been
appointed, and shall have the qualifications as set forth in Section 109.2.1.";
   (I)   Section 109.2.5. Change to read: "Secretary. The Village President,
with the concurrence of the Village Council, shall appoint a qualified person
to serve as secretary to the board. In case of the absence of the secretary,
the board may appoint one of its members to serve as secretary. The secretary
shall file a detailed record of all proceedings in the office of the chief
administrative officer.";
   (J)   Section 109.2.6. Change to read: "Compensation. Compensation of
members, if any, shall be as established by resolution of the Village
Council.";
   (K)   Section 109.5. Change to read: "Postponed hearing. When three members
are not present to hear an appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's
representative shall have the right to request a postponement of the hearing.";
and
   (L)   Section 109.6. Change to read: "Board decision. The board shall modify
or reverse the decision of the code official by a concurring vote of two
members.".
(Prior Code, § 822.02)
§ 150.05 MICHIGAN ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
Village Clerk, being marked and designated as the most recent Michigan
Electrical Code, is hereby adopted as the Mechanical/Electrical code of the
village; for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms
of the most recent Michigan Electrical Code are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 824.01) (Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-11-11)
§ 150.06 APPEALS.
   The Electrical Board of Appeals shall be the same board that hears appeals
under the building code, mechanical code, and property maintenance code and
shall be governed by the same provisions.
(Prior Code, § 824.02)
§ 150.07 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the Village
Clerk, being marked and designated as the 2009 International Property
Maintenance Code, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., is
hereby adopted as the property maintenance code of the village; for the control
of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the property
maintenance code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions, and
changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.08.
(Ord. 07-01, passed 7-2-2007; Ord. 2011-2, passed 7-11-11)
§ 150.08 ADDITIONS AND CHANGES.
   The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1. Insert: "the Village of Homer";
   (B)   Section 103.5. Insert: "as established by resolution of the Village
Council";
   (C)   Section 106.3. Change to read: "Prosecution of violation. Any person
failing to comply with a notice of violation or order served in accordance with
Section 107 shall be deemed guilty of a civil infraction as set forth in
section 122.01 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Homer. If the
notice of violation is not complied with, the code official shall institute the
appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation, or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy
of the structure in violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or
direction made pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the code official on the
premises shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is
located and shall be a lien upon the real estate.";
   (D)   Section 111.2. Change to read: "Membership and qualifications of board
of appeals: The board of appeals shall be the same board that hears appeals
under the Building Code, Mechanical Code and Electrical Code and shall consist
of three members appointed by the Village President with the concurrence of the
Village Council as follows: one for three years, one for two years and one for
one year. Thereafter, each new member shall serve for three years or until a
successor has been appointed. The qualifications of the members of the board of
appeals shall be as follows:
      1.    One state-licensed building contractor;
      2.    One state-licensed electrician;
   3. One at-large member from the community.
These members shall have the qualifications as the Village President and
Village Council shall consider essential to enable them to act intelligently
and knowledgeably in matters pertaining to the code.";
   (E)   Subsection 111.2.1. Change to read: "Alternate Members: The Village
President, with the concurrence of the Village Council, shall appoint an
alternate state-licensed building contractor and alternate state-licensed
electrician who shall be called by the board chairperson to hear appeals during
the disqualification of the regular state-licensed building contractor member
and regular state-licensed electrician member, respectively. The alternate
members shall be appointed for three years or until a successor has been
appointed, and shall have the qualifications as set forth in Section 111.2.";
   (F)   Subsection 111.2.2. Change to read: "Chairperson: The board shall
annually select one of its members to serve as chairperson.";
   (G)   Subsection 111.2.4. Change to read: "Secretary: The Village President,
with the concurrence of the Village Council, shall appoint a qualified person
to serve as secretary to the board. In case of the absence of the secretary,
the board shall appoint one of its members to serve as secretary. The secretary
shall file a detailed record of all proceedings in the office of the chief
administrative officer.";
   (H)   Subsection 111.2.5. Change to read: "Compensation of members:
Compensation of members, if any, shall be established by resolution of the
Village Council.";
   (I)   Section 111.5. Change to read: "Postponed Hearing: When three members
are not present to hear an appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's
representative shall have the right to request a postponement of the hearing,";
   (J)   Section 111.6. Change to read: "Board decision: The board shall modify
or reverse the decision of the code official by a concurring vote of two
members.";
   (K)   Section 304.14. Insert: "March 1: November 1";
   (L)   Section 602.3. Insert: "January 1; December 31"; and
   (M)   Section 602.4. Insert: "January 1: December 31".
(Ord. 07-01, passed 7-2-2007)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Platting; General Regulations
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Definitions
Preliminary Plat; Tentative Approval
   
151.015   Informal consultation pre-submission
   
151.016   Preliminary plat submission
   
151.017   Notice of public hearing
   
151.018   Planning Commission review; report
   
151.019   Village Council action
   
151.020   Proprietor rights and duties
Preliminary Plat; Final Approval
   
151.035   Planning Commission review
   
151.036   Village Council action; recording
   
151.037   Rights and restrictions
Final Plat
   
151.050   Proprietor filings
   
151.051   Planning Commission review
   
151.052   Village Council action
Design Regulations
   
151.065   Harmonious design
   
151.066   Streets
   
151.067   Block lengths
   
151.068   Alleys
   
151.069   Lot size
   
151.070   Boundary monuments
   
151.071   Public place dedication
Improvements
   
151.085   Completion compliance
   
151.086   Water and sewer system
   
151.087   Street and sidewalk
   
151.088   Fire hydrants
   
151.089   Underground cables
   
151.090   Street signs; street lights
   
151.091   Engineer design; inspection
PLATTING; GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   A lot in a well developed subdivision, with essential improvements already
installed, is a better investment for a prospective purchaser than one which
does not have the necessary facilities, and the improvements contribute
directly to an individual’s health, safety, and general welfare. Therefore, in
the best interests of the purchaser, proprietor, and the village, certain
standards to be required of proposed subdivisions are hereby established. It is
the express intent of this chapter to encourage that development and
subdividing which will make for an orderly and well developed community and
preserve land values within the community.
(Prior Code, § 720.01)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. For other
definitions, the definitions of the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293, shall apply.
   LAND DIVISION ACT. The Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, as amended.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village.
   PROPRIETOR. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
or combination of any of them which may hold any ownership interest in land
whether recorded or not.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. Any person designated by the Village Council to perform on
behalf of the village any review of subdivision plans or the preparation of any
plans and specifications for or to oversee the construction of any improvements
or designs provided for in this chapter.
   ZONING CODE.  
Chapter 152 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 720.02)
PRELIMINARY PLAT; TENTATIVE APPROVAL
§ 151.015 INFORMAL CONSULTATION PRE-SUBMISSION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a proprietor from consulting
informally with village officials for the purpose of investigating and
discussing procedures and standards of the village with reference to the
matters set forth in this chapter or other provisions of this code that affect,
or may affect, the area in which a proposed subdivision is to be located, or
from submitting a pre-preliminary plat to village officials for their
information and review. With respect to the foregoing, a proprietor should
become familiar with the provisions of this chapter, any applicable zoning
provisions, the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293,
and the requirements of the several state and county agencies required by the
Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, to review and
approve a plat. The proprietor should investigate the health standards of the
village, the county, and the state relating to sewage disposal, water supply,
erosion control, drainage, and flood control. The proprietor should,
additionally, consider the adequacy of existing schools, parks, playgrounds,
and other open spaces to serve the proposed subdivision and the relationship of
the proposed subdivision with respect to the existing streets and streets
planned for the future.
(Prior Code, § 721.01)
§ 151.016 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION.
   (A)   Submission; information required. Ten copies of a preliminary plat
shall be prepared and submitted to the Village Clerk. The plat shall include or
have submitted with it the following information:
      (1)   A scale drawing of not more than 200 feet to the inch;
      (2)   The date, cardinal points, and a north arrow;
      (3)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the proprietor and
the engineer or surveyor who designed the subdivision;
      (4)   The proposed name of the subdivision which name shall not be the
same or similar, as so to create confusion, with the name of other subdivisions
within the county;
      (5)   The names, locations, and width, where applicable, of proposed
streets, alleys, easements, parks, lot lines, existing, or proposed utilities,
rights-of-way, and other proposed areas within the plat;
      (6)   Legal description of the land to be platted and its area in acres.
The boundaries of the subdivision shall be described by metes and bounds and
shall be drawn so as to be easily ascertainable in contrast to the remainder of
the plat;
      (7)   A location map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area and connections with adjoining streets;
      (8)   Existing land use and zoning of the proposed subdivision and
abutting tracts and any requests for changes in the same;
      (9)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development, including
future streets if the proposed plat is portion of a large holding intended for
subsequent development;
      (10)   Layout, number, and dimensions of lots. All lots shall be
consecutively numbered;
      (11)   Location, dimension, and purpose of any land intended to be
dedicated or set aside for public use or for the common use of property owners
in the subdivision;
      (12)   The location of any flood plain areas;
      (13)   The location of any existing proposed sanitary sewers, water
mains, storm drains, and other underground facilities within or adjacent to the
proposed subdivision, including the location and dimensions of proposed street
systems and easements therefor;
      (14)   Existing and proposed contours at two-foot elevations;
      (15)   Ground elevations at the intersections of all streets and at the
extremities of the plat using NGVD, 1929 datum;
      (16)   Three copies of any proposed covenants and deed restrictions, or
statement in writing that none is proposed. If common areas are to be reserved
for use of the residents of the subdivision, copies of an agreement showing how
the area will be maintained shall also be submitted; and
      (17)   A statement indicating the proposed use to which the subdivision
will be put, along with a description of any type of residential buildings and
number of dwelling units contemplated or the type of business or industry so as
to reveal the effect of development of traffic, fire hazards, or congestion of
population.
(Prior Code, § 721.02)
   (B)   Engineer, surveyor to prepare. The plat shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or a registered land surveyor.
(Prior Code, § 721.03)
Statutory reference:
   Submission of plat to clerk, see M.C.L.A. § 560.112
§ 151.017 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Village Clerk shall place the preliminary plat on the agenda of the
Village Planning Commission within 30 days after the filing date at which time
the Planning Commission shall schedule a public hearing on the proposed
subdivision, provided all the conditions are met. No plat shall be acted upon
by the Planning Commission without a hearing thereon. Notice shall be sent to
the proprietor by registered mail of the time and place of the hearing not less
than five days before the date fixed therefor. Regular mail notice shall be
mailed to the owners of land immediately adjoining the platted land within 300
feet, according to the names which appear on the records of the Assessor, of
the time and place not less than five days before the date. The notice shall
also be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the village not
less than seven days before the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 721.04)
§ 151.018 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW; REPORT.
   (A)   Review by Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall review
the preliminary plat and other documents submitted with it, receive and
consider any comments from any involved village official and comments received
at the public hearing. All persons attending the public hearing shall be
afforded an opportunity to address the Planning Commission concerning the
proposed plat under the rules as the Commission may establish for the
reasonable conduct of its business. If the preliminary plan meets all
conditions required to be met, the Planning Commission shall recommend to the
Village Council tentative approval of the preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 721.05)
   (B)   Conditions not met. If the preliminary plat does not meet all the
conditions required to be met, the Planning Commission shall notify the
proprietor of this fact by letter, giving its reasons for disapproval, the
earliest date for resubmission of the plat and any additional information
required. The Village Council shall receive a report of the finding by the
Planning Commission and its recommendation for disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 721.06)
   (C)   Time to report. The Planning Commission shall file its report with the
Village Clerk not more than 60 days after submission to it of the preliminary
plat. The 60-day period may be extended for a stated period if the proprietor
consents. If no action is taken by the Planning Commission within 60 days, or
within the period of time consented to, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to
have been recommended for approval to the Village Council by the Planning
Commission. Upon receiving the report of the Planning Commission, or upon the
passage of the time limitations provided for herein, whichever shall first
occur, the Village Clerk shall place the preliminary plat upon the Council’s
agenda for tentative approval.
(Prior Code, § 721.07)
§ 151.019 VILLAGE COUNCIL ACTION.
   The Village Council shall review the preliminary plat within 30 days of its
placement on its agenda and shall tentatively approve or disapprove the plat.
The Village Council shall record its approval on the plat and return one copy
to the proprietor or set forth in writing its reasons for rejection and
requirements for tentative approval.
(Prior Code, § 721.08)
§ 151.020 PROPRIETOR RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Rights of proprietor. Tentative approval by the Village Council shall
confer upon the proprietor, for a period of one year, approval of lot size, lot
orientation, and street layout. The time may be extended if applied for by the
proprietor and consented to in writing by the village.
(Prior Code, § 721.09)
   (B)   Distribution of copies. The proprietor, upon receiving tentative
approval from the Village Council, shall submit the preliminary plat to all
authorities as required by the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293.
(Prior Code, § 721.11)
   (C)   Copies to Village Clerk. Ten copies of the preliminary plat shall be
filed with the Village Clerk for final approval by the Village Council. The
proprietor shall also submit a certified list of all authorities whose approval
is required in accordance with the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, together with approved copies of the preliminary plat from
each authority.
(Prior Code, § 721.12)
Statutory reference:
   Authorities to receive copy of preliminary plat, see M.C.L.A. §§ 560.112
through 560.119
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 560.112
PRELIMINARY PLAT; FINAL APPROVAL
§ 151.035 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   The Village Clerk shall place the preliminary plat on the agenda of the
Planning Commission for its next regularly scheduled meeting after the filing
date. The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat and the
comments of the appropriate officials and shall make recommendations to the
Village Council as to final approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat,
including any reasons for a recommendation of disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 721.13)
§ 151.036 VILLAGE COUNCIL ACTION; RECORDING.
   (A)   Village Council action. Upon receiving the final recommendation of the
Planning Commission, the Village Clerk shall place the preliminary plat upon
the agenda of the next regularly scheduled Village Council meeting. At the
meeting, or within 30 days after receiving the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the Village Council shall consider the recommendation of the
Planning Commission for compliance with the tentatively approved preliminary
plat standards and shall take action thereon.
(Prior Code, § 721.14)
   (B)   Granted by Village Council. If the preliminary plat conforms
substantially to the plat approved tentatively by the Village Council and has
met all conditions specified for tentative approval, the Village Council shall
give final approval to the preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 721.15)
   (C)   Village Clerk to note Council's action. The Village Clerk shall record
on the copy of the preliminary plat to be returned to the proprietor the
approval or attach the rejection with reasons for the rejection.
(Prior Code, § 721.16)
§ 151.037 RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Final approval; rights of proprietor. Final approval of the
preliminary plat shall confer upon the proprietor for a period of two years
from date of approval, the rights granted under the Land Division Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, which period may be extended if applied
for by the proprietor and granted by the Village Council. Written notice of any
such extension shall be given by the Village Council to the other approving
authorities.
(Prior Code, § 721.10)
   (B)   Start of construction. No construction of improvements shall be
commenced until the proprietor has received final approval of the preliminary
plat by the Village Council and has entered into an agreement with the village
for construction of all required improvements and filed with the village the
security as deemed necessary by the village to ensure that all improvements
will be completed in accordance with the approved plan.
(Prior Code, § 721.17)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 560.120
FINAL PLAT
§ 151.050 PROPRIETOR FILINGS.
   (A)   Proprietor to prepare and submit. Following final approval of the
preliminary plat by the Village Council, the proprietor shall prepare in
accordance with the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, a final plat and submit five copies thereof to the Village Clerk for
approval by the Village Council. The plat shall contain the features of the
approved preliminary plan and must be submitted to the Clerk within two years
from the date of the approval by the Village Council of the preliminary plat or
within two years from the date of the expiration of any extended period given
in writing by the village; otherwise, the approval shall become null and void.
The final plat shall comply with all the survey, mapping, and certification
requirements set forth in the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293. If the same shall have been submitted within the time
provided, the Clerk shall place the final plat, and any accompanying documents,
on the agenda of the Planning Commission for review at its next scheduled
regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 721.18)
   (B)   Proof of title. The proprietor shall submit, at the time of filing,
the final plat, an abstract of title certified to date of the proprietor's
certificate to establish recordable ownership interest, and any other
information deemed necessary for the purpose of ascertaining whether the proper
parties have signed the plat, or a policy of title insurance currently in
force, covering all of the land including within the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision. The Village Council, in lieu of an abstract of title, may accept
an attorney’s opinion, in writing, based on the abstract of title as to
ownership and marketability of title to the land.
(Prior Code, § 721.19)
   (C)   Receipts to be filed. At the time of filing of the final plat with the
Clerk, the proprietor shall also file with the Clerk copies of any receipts
showing that all fees, charges, or deposits required to be paid to the village
have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 721.20)
   (D)   Improvements. The proprietor shall also file with the Clerk at the
time of filing the final plat, final engineering construction plans for all
improvements to be constructed in connection with the proposed plat in
accordance with the standards of specifications required by the village or its
ordinances. If the proprietor cannot complete the work within the period of
time as required by the conditions of village approval for all public
improvements, the proprietor shall be required to deposit with the village a
certified check, performance bond, or other security that the village may
require, to ensure full faith performance and compliance of the proprietor’s
obligations under this chapter or the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293.
(Prior Code, § 721.21)
§ 151.051 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   The final plat shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission as to compliance
with the approved preliminary plat and plans for improvements. If it determines
that the final plat satisfies all village and state requirements, the Planning
Commission shall approve the final plat and the approval shall be entered in
writing on the plat by the Chairperson or Secretary of the Planning Commission.
The plat shall then be forwarded to the Village Clerk for review by the Village
Council. The Clerk shall submit the final plat to the Village Council at its
next regular session.
(Prior Code, § 721.22)
§ 151.052 VILLAGE COUNCIL ACTION.
   The Village Council shall review and take action on the final plat within 20
days of the date of its submission. The Village Council shall require all
improvements and facilities to be constructed or the filing of the security to
ensure construction as provided for in this chapter before approval of the
final plat. If the Village Council disapproves the final plat, it shall give
reasons for the disapproval and return the plat and the reasons to the
proprietor. If approved by the Village Council, the approval and the date
thereof shall be certified on the plat by the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 721.23)
DESIGN REGULATIONS
§ 151.065 HARMONIOUS DESIGN.
   The proposed subdivision shall be so arranged as to be in harmony with
adjoining subdivisions and areas and shall provide for the continuation of
existing streets. Provisions shall be made for streets through the subdivision
for platting contiguous property.
(Prior Code, § 722.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.066 STREETS.
   The minimum width of streets shall be 44 feet; provided, however, that in
the event of hardship or unusual circumstances, lesser widths for streets of
less than 600 feet in length or for streets ending in a cul-de-sac may be
permitted by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 722.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.067 BLOCK LENGTHS.
   No block shall be more than 1,100 feet in length between the centerlines of
intersecting streets, nor less than 500 feet in length. The optimum length of a
block shall be considered to be 800 feet.
(Prior Code, § 722.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.068 ALLEYS.
   Alleys of not less than 20 feet in width shall be provided to serve the rear
of all lots proposed for business or industrial use.
(Prior Code, § 723.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.069 LOT SIZE.
   Lots shall have a minimum frontage and square feet in accordance with the
zoning code.
(Prior Code, § 723.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.070 BOUNDARY MONUMENTS.
   Permanent metal monuments consisting of bars not less than one-half inch in
diameter and 36 inches in length, or shorter bars of not less than one-half
inch in diameter lapped over each other at least six inches, encased in a
concrete cylinder at least four inches in diameter and 36 inches in depth shall
be located in the ground at all angles in the boundaries of the land platted.
(Prior Code, § 723.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.071 PUBLIC PLACE DEDICATION.
   The Village Council may accept the dedication of suitable parks and other
public open spaces when it appears that the village at large will benefit from
the dedication.
(Prior Code, § 723.04)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.085 COMPLETION COMPLIANCE.
   The proprietor shall complete the improvements set forth in this chapter
before final approval of a plat or shall provide the Village Council with a
certified check, a performance bond, or any other security as the village may
require, sufficient in amount to cover full faith performance and compliance
with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 724.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.086 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Water supply system. The proprietor shall construct a water system and
cause the same to be connected with the public water supply in the manner
directed by and under the supervision of the village. The system shall consist
of a minimum of a six-inch water main and a water service to each lot. All
water mains must be looped so that water is available from two sources at any
point. Fire hydrants, gate valves, and appurtenances shall be installed in
accordance with accepted engineering practices and village approval.
(Prior Code, § 724.02)
   (B)   Sanitary sewer systems. The proprietor shall provide the subdivision
with a complete sanitary sewer system which shall connect with a sanitary sewer
outlet approved by the Village Engineer. When the approved outlet is not
available, the proprietor shall provide either the plans for and installation
of a complete sanitary sewer system approved by the Village Engineer and in
accordance with applicable provisions of this code or a complete private sewage
disposal system on individual lots which shall consist of a septic tank and a
tile absorption field or other approved sewage disposal systems when laid out
in accordance with not less than the minimum standards of the village and the
Health Department having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 724.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.087 STREET AND SIDEWALK.
   (A)   The specifications for street improvements shall be the then current
state highway specifications for the type of construction and surface approved
by the Village Council, with adequate storm water drainage, curb, and gutter.
   (B)   Concrete sidewalks not less than four feet in width and four inches in
thickness shall be installed by the proprietor.
(Prior Code, § 724.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.088 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   The proprietor shall provide the subdivision with fire hydrants of a type,
size, and at a location which shall be approved by the Village Engineer. The
maximum spacing of hydrants in residential plats shall be 500 feet and in
commercial-industrial areas 300 feet. Hydrants shall be placed on a lot so as
not to interfere with the location of an expected drive approach.
(Prior Code, § 724.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.089 UNDERGROUND CABLES.
   Telephone, electric, and cable television service lines shall be placed
underground entirely throughout a subdivided area. The conduits or cables shall
be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which will not
conflict with other underground services.
(Prior Code, § 724.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.090 STREET SIGNS; STREET LIGHTS.
   (A)   Street name signs shall be placed at all street intersections within
or abutting the subdivision or developmental project. The signs shall be a type
approved by the village and shall be installed by the village.
   (B)   The proprietor shall provide streetlights, including streetlight
poles, approved by the Village Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 724.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.091 ENGINEER DESIGN; INSPECTION.
   The improvements provided for under this chapter shall be designed by a
registered professional engineer prior to final plat approval. Installation of
improvements shall be to specifications of the village and under inspection by
the Village Engineer. If in any instance the village should decide that it is
necessary to install a larger water main or sewer or greater width of street,
the village will bear the difference between the cost of the materials
originally required by the village and the cost of the material resulting from
the increase in size to meet the larger standard.
(Prior Code, § 724.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Regulations
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Validity; severability; conflict of laws
   
152.003   Rules of construction
   
152.004   Definitions
Official Zoning Map
   
152.020   District establishment
   
152.021   Official Zoning Map
   
152.022   Map changes
   
152.023   Official Zoning Map location
   
152.024   Official Zoning Map replacement
   
152.025   Boundary interpretation rules
   
152.026   Minimum regulations
Amendment
   
152.040   Amendment initiation; fees
   
152.041   Procedure
   
152.042   Conformance to decree
Variance
   
152.055   Planning Commission recommendation
   
152.056   Guidelines
   
152.057   Planning Commission findings
   
152.058   Proposed variance
Specific Regulations
   
152.070   Purpose
   
152.071   Accessory building
   
152.072   Lot building relationship
   
152.073   Accessory building, basement prohibited as dwelling
   
152.074   Water and sewerage requirements
   
152.075   Greenbelt buffer
   
152.076   Street access
   
152.077   Intersection visibility
   
152.078   Street closure
   
152.079   Height regulations
   
152.080   Fences; walls; screens
   
152.081   Prohibition of oil or gas wells
   
152.082   Shoreline excavation; dredging
   
152.083   Essential services exemption
   
152.084   Swimming pools
   
152.085   Continuing conformance obligation
   
152.086   Off-street parking
   
152.087   Loading, unloading requirements
R1 Low Density Residential District
   
152.100   Purpose
   
152.101   Permitted use
   
152.102   Conditional use
   
152.103   Regulations
R2 Medium Density Residential District
   
152.115   Purpose
   
152.116   Permitted use
   
152.117   Conditional use
   
152.118   Regulations
R3 Multiple-Family Residential District
   
152.130   Purpose
   
152.131   Permitted use
   
152.132   Conditional use
   
152.133   Area requirements
   
152.134   Regulations
R4 Mixed Residential District
   
152.145   Purpose
   
152.146   Permitted use
   
152.147   Conditional use
   
152.148   Regulations
MHP Mobile Home Park District
   
152.160   Purpose
   
152.161   Permitted use
   
152.162   Area requirements
   
152.163   Regulations
B Business District
   
152.175   Purpose
   
152.176   Permitted use
   
152.177   Conditional use
   
152.178   Regulations
CS Community Service Commercial District
   
152.190   Purpose
   
152.191   Permitted use
   
152.192   Conditional use
   
152.193   Regulations
HS Highway Commercial District
   
152.205   Purpose
   
152.206   Permitted use
   
152.207   Conditional use
   
152.208   Regulations
LI Light Industrial District
   
152.220   Purpose
   
152.221   Permitted use
   
152.222   Conditional use
   
152.223   Regulations
HI Heavy Industrial District
   
152.235   Purpose
   
152.236   Permitted use
   
152.237   Conditional use
   
152.238   Regulations
OAC Open Space, Agricultural, and Waterbody Conservation District
   
152.250   Purpose
   
152.251   Permitted use
   
152.252   Conditional use
   
152.253   Regulations
Conditional Uses
   
152.270   Purpose
   
152.271   Authority to grant permits
   
152.272   Application and fee
   
152.273   Posting of property and public hearing
   
152.274   Findings by the Village Planning Commission
   
152.275   General standards for all conditional use permits
   
152.276   Compliance bond
   
152.277   Conditions, limitations, requirements and safeguards
   
152.278   Continued validity of permit; revocation
   
152.279   Index to conditional uses; applicability to districts
   
152.280   Junk yards
   
152.281   Gasoline sales and convenience centers
   
152.282   Planned unit developments
   
152.283   Essential service buildings
   
152.284   Agri-business
   
152.285   Community facilities, public or non-profit
   
152.286   Telecommunications towers; standards and requirements
   
152.287   Animal hospitals, clinics and commercial kennels
   
152.288   Mini-storage warehouse facilities
   
152.289   Drive-in or drive-through retail service establishments
   
152.290   New and used vehicles, trailer sales
   
152.291   Temporary dwellings
   
152.292   Adult entertainment
   
152.293   Hospitals
   
152.294   Homes for the elderly and retired
   
152.295   Group day-care homes
   
152.296   Child care centers
   
152.297   Adult day-care homes
   
152.298   Adult day-care centers
   
152.299   Warehousing and storage facilities for established retail businesses
   
152.300   Commercial storage rental facilities
   
152.301   Commercial repair facilities for automobiles and other light motor
vehicles; general repair
   
152.302   Commercial repair facilities for automobiles and other light motor
vehicles; limited repair
   
152.303   Places of amusement and recreation
Nonconforming Uses and Buildings
   
152.325   Nonconforming use of land or building
Sign Regulation
   
152.340   General regulations
   
152.341   Signs permitted, OAC District
   
152.342   Signs permitted, residential districts
   
152.343   Signs permitted, commercial, industrial districts
   
152.344   Outdoor advertising signs
   
152.345   Gasoline service station signs
   
152.346   Nonconforming signs eliminated
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.360   Purpose
   
152.361   Administration
Zoning Inspector
   
152.375   Zoning Inspector duties
   
152.376   Building permits
Enforcement
   
152.390   Fees, charges, costs
   
152.391   Violations
   
152.392   Legal action
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.405   Board of Appeals established
   
152.406   Membership; terms of office
   
152.407   Rules of procedure
   
152.408   Meetings and minutes
   
152.409   Powers and duties
   
152.410   Variance
   
152.411   Re-application for variance
   
152.412   Appeal procedure
   
Appendix A:     Lot Regulations
   
Appendix B:     Yard Requirements
   
Appendix C:     Roof Types
   
Appendix D:     Parking Layouts
   
Appendix E:     Types of Lots
   
Appendix F:     Structural Terminology
Statutory reference:
   See, Michigan Planning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Promoting and protecting the public health, safety, and general
welfare;
   (B)   Protecting the character and the stability of the agricultural,
recreational, residential, commercial, and other areas within the village and
promoting the orderly and beneficial development of the areas;
   (C)   Regulating the intensity of use of land and lot areas and determining
the area of open places surrounding buildings and structures necessary to
provide adequate light and air to protect the public health and convenience of
access to the property;
   (D)   Lessening and avoiding congestion on the public highways and streets;
   (E)   Providing for the needs of industry, recreation, residence, commerce,
and other land in future growth;
   (F)   Fixing reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall
conform;
   (G)   Prohibiting uses, buildings, or structures which are incompatible with
the character of development or the uses, buildings, or structures permitted
within specified zoning districts;
   (H)   Preventing the additions to or alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the regulations and
limitations imposed hereunder;
   (I)   Protecting against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and odors, dust,
smoke, glare, noise, and other nuisances and hazards in the interest of the
public health, safety, and general welfare;
   (J)   Preventing the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
buildings and structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each zoning
district by regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land
surrounding them;
   (K)   Conserving the taxable value of land, buildings, and structures
throughout the village;
   (L)   Providing for the completion, substitution, or elimination of
nonconforming uses;
   (M)   Creating a Board of Appeals and defining the powers and duties
thereof; and
   (N)   Designating and defining the powers and duties of the official or
officials in charge of the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 740.01)
§ 152.002 VALIDITY; SEVERABILITY; CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   (A)   Validity and severability clause.
      (1)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare any part of
this code to be invalid, the ruling shall not affect any other provisions of
this code not specifically included in the ruling.
      (2)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare invalid the
application of any provision of this code to a particular land, parcel, lot,
district, use, building, or structure, the ruling shall not affect the
application of the provision to any other land, parcel, lot, district, use,
building, or structure not specifically included in the ruling.
(Prior Code, § 740.02)
   (B)   Conflict with other laws.
      (1)   Where any condition imposed by any provision of this code upon the
use of any lot, building, or structure is either more restrictive or less
restrictive than any comparable condition imposed by other provision of this
code or by the provisions of a code adopted under any other law, the provision
which is more restrictive or which imposes a higher standard or requirement
shall govern.
      (2)   This code is not intended to abrogate or annul any easement,
covenant, or other private agreement, provided that, where any provision of
this code is more restrictive or imposes a higher standard or requirement than
the easement, covenant, or other private agreement, that provision of this code
shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 740.03)
      (3)   All references to the City and Village Zoning Act, Public Act 207
of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 through 125.590, as amended, shall now be
made reference to as Public Act 110 of 2006, also known as the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act, and being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702, as amended.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 152.003 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Generally. The following rules of construction apply to the text of
this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
      (2)   The word "building" includes the word "structure."
      (3)   A "building" or "structure" includes any part thereof.
      (4)   The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or building
shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged, or designed to be
used or occupied."
      (5)   Any word or term not defined herein shall be used with a meaning of
common or standard utilization.
(Prior Code, § 741.01)
§ 152.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any
changes required to the following definitions by change in state law or state
code or by decree of a court of competent jurisdiction may be made by the
Village Council, with the concurrence of both the Planning Commission and the
Zoning Board of Appeals without use of formal amendment procedures. Provided,
that the changes, when approved, will be published in the local newspaper.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of the principal building or to the use of the land and
which is attached securely to a permanent masonry foundation or similar
permanent footings.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to the principal use on a lot and used for
purposes clearly incidental to those of the main use.
   AGRICULTURAL. Includes purposes related to agriculture, farming, dairying,
pastorage, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and animal and poultry
husbandry.
   ALLEY. A public or legally-established private thoroughfare, other than a
street, which affords a secondary means of access to abutting property, and is
not more than 20 feet wide.
   ALTERATION. Any change, addition, or modification in construction, any
change in the structural members of a building, such as walls, or partitions,
columns, beams, or girders, the consummated act of which may be referred to
herein as ALTERED or RECONSTRUCTED.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign having a conspicuous and intermittent variation in
the illumination of the physical position of any part of the sign.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   AREA, NET SIZE. The total area within the property lines of a project
excluding external streets rights-of-way.
   AUTOMOBILE AND OTHER LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR. General repair and
rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles and motor vehicle components,
and collision services such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair;
overall painting and undercoating of vehicles when carried on in a completely
enclosed room or building.
   AUTOMOBILE or TRAILER SALES AREA. Any space used for display, sale, or
rental of motor vehicles or trailers, in new or used and operable condition.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is below the first story and the
average height below the ground line is greater than that above the ground line
(see structural terminology diagram).
   BILLBOARD. Any construction or portion thereof upon which a sign or
advertisement used as an outdoor display for the purpose of making anything
known to the general public is affixed. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof, and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or
property of any kind.
   BUILDING COVERAGE. The percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the
building area.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established
sidewalk grade to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the
deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and ridge
for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs. Where a building is set back from the street
line, the height of the building may be measured from the average elevation of
the finished grade along the front of the building, provided the average
elevation shall not exceed the established sidewalk grade at the center of the
front of the building by more than one inch for each front foot that the
building sets back from the front line (see building heights requirement
diagram).
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit for commencing construction issued in accordance
with a plan for construction that complies with all the provisions of this
chapter.
   CARE FACILITIES. Facilities regulated by this chapter providing resident
services to more than six and less than 13 individuals in need of supervision
or care. This shall include adult foster care and child day-care facilities of
more than six persons unrelated to the owner/operator of the facility.
   CHURCH. A building wherein people regularly assemble for religious worship
and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship, together with all accessory buildings and uses customarily
associated with the principal purpose.
   CLUB or LODGE, PRIVATE. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building, or portion
thereof, the use of the premises being restricted to members and their guests.
The affairs and management of the PRIVATE CLUB OR LODGE are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members
at a meeting. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on the premises
providing adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available and
provided all public health and other laws are complied with. The sale of
alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be allowed provided it is
secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other common objective by the
organization, and further provided that the sale of the alcoholic beverages is
in compliance with the applicable federal, state, and municipal laws.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is subject to conditional approval by the
Planning Commission. A CONDITIONAL USE may be granted when specified by this
chapter and for those uses not specifically mentioned. A permitted CONDITIONAL
USE is not considered to be a nonconforming use.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of the condominium project designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed,
regardless of whether it is intended for residential, office, industrial,
business, recreational, or any other type of use approved by the State
Department of Commerce.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, which is bounded on two or more sides by the walls of the building.
   COURT, OUTER. A court enclosed on not more than three sides by exterior
walls of a building, or by exterior walls and lot lines on which walls are
allowable, with one side or end open to a street, driveway, alley, or yard.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the incorporated part of the village within which
certain regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply
under the provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN. An establishment of the "drive-in" type is one which accommodates
the patrons' automobiles in the off-street parking area accessory to the
business from which the occupants may receive a service or obtain a product
which may be used or consumed, in the vehicle, on the same premises or within
the establishment.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, designed
exclusively or altered for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other. This shall be established by three or more
separate units, or apartments, with each meeting the definition of dwelling
unit.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively or altered for two
dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by one
family for residential purposes and having cooking facilities. The DWELLING
UNIT shall be attached to and located upon a permanent masonry foundation.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal department or commissions of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water, collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems, including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, and other similar equipment, and accessories in connection therewith,
but not including buildings, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service by the public utilities or municipal departments or
commissions or for the public health or safety or general welfare.
   FAMILY. This shall be considered a domestic family of one or more related
persons (through marriage or adoption) residing in a single dwelling unit and
sharing facilities (such as a kitchen and common entrances). This shall also
include a functional FAMILY of no more than six unrelated persons who share
common facilities and operate as a single nonprofit FAMILY unit. This shall
exclude those uses where the living arrangement is temporary or seasonal (such
as fraternities, sororities, associations, and lodges) and where the persons
within the unit are treated as individual occupants for housekeeping purposes.
   FARM. All of the contiguous neighboring or associated land operated as a
single unit on which bona fide agriculture is carried on directly by the owner-
operator, manager, or tenant farmer, by his or her own labor or with the
assistance of members of his or her household or hired employees; provided,
however, that land being considered a FARM hereunder shall include a continuous
parcel of ten acres or more in area.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The land which is enrolled in the National Flood Insurance
Program or is determined to be a wetland as designated by local, state, or
national standards.
   FLOOR AREA. The number of square feet in a site built house is the sum of
the gross horizontal area of the several floors of the building measured from
the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of walls
separating two buildings. The FLOOR AREA of a building shall include the area
of any floor when more than one-half of the room height is above the
established curb level, or above the finished lot grade. Within a two-family or
multiple-family residence or other building where separate ownership or
leasehold interests exist, any interior common areas shall not be included
within the determination of FLOOR AREA. Calculations used to determine the
number of square feet in a manufactured home will be based on the structure's
exterior dimensions measured at the largest horizontal projections when erected
on the site. These dimensions will include all expandable rooms, cabinets, and
other projections containing interior space, but do not include bay windows.
   FRONTAGE. The total length along which a parcel of land fronts on a street,
measured along the line where the property abuts the street right-of-way.
   GARAGE, COMMERCIAL. Any garage other than a private garage available to the
public, operated for gain, and used for storage, repair, rental, greasing,
washing, sales, servicing, adjusting, or equipping of automobiles, or other
motor vehicles.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building not over one story or 15 feet in
height used for parking or storage of vehicles as may be required in connection
with the permitted use of the principal building.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. Any building, or premises used for the
dispensation, sale, or offering for sale at retail of any motor fuels, oils, or
lubricants. When the dispensing, sale, or offering for sales is incidental to
the conduct of a commercial garage, the premises are classified as a commercial
garage.
   GRADE. The ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of buildings. The building grade shall be the
level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished GRADE
is level. If the ground is not level, the GRADE shall be determined by
averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the building.
   GREENBELT BUFFER. A strip or parcel of land privately restricted or publicly
dedicated as open space, located between land uses for the purpose of
protecting the character of adjacent residential or other uses. The GREENBELT
BUFFER shall include, but not be limited to, the following materials: open
space with maintained grass cover, evergreens, deciduous trees, shrubs, and
bushes.
   GROUP HOUSING. Two or more multiple dwellings on a parcel of land under
single ownership.
   HIGHWAY. See MAJOR STREET.
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services, primarily for in-
patients, and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, including as an
integral part of the institution, related facilities, central services
facilities, and staff offices.
   HOTEL, MOTEL. A building containing primarily rooming units with the number
of dwelling units being not greater than 10% of the total number of rooming
units, and with the exception of the unit occupied by the management staff;
used only for the accommodations of transients.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A special or exclusive type of planned industrial area
designed and equipped to accommodate a community of industries, providing them
with all necessary facilities and services in attractive surroundings among
compatible neighbors.
   JUNK YARD. Any land or buildings where waste, used or second hand materials
are bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, parked, disassembled, or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber tires, and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes automobile wrecking yards
and includes any area of more than 50 square feet for storage, keeping, or
abandonment of junk, but does not include uses established entirely within
enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which more than four common house pets are
kept permanently or are temporarily boarded.
   LIVING SPACE. The area within a structure intended, designed, erected, or
used for human occupancy; that is, the sum of the gross horizontal area of the
floor in question of the building used for the occupancy, measured from the
exterior faces of the exterior walls, from the center lines of interior walls,
and excluding porches, garages, and breezeways not usable the year around.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building, or group
of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading
and unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter including one principal building together with its accessory
buildings, and providing the open spaces, parking spaces, and loading spaces
required by this chapter. For the purposes of this chapter, LOTS are further
classified as follows:
      (1)   FRACTIONAL LOT. A parcel of land of lesser area than that
established for its zoning district;
      (2)   MULTIPLE LOT. Any combination of contiguous primary, secondary, or
fractional lots which exceeds the area prescribed for a primary lot in its
zoning district;
      (3)   PRIMARY LOT. A parcel of land established by an original plat, with
an area equal to, or exceeding, the minimum prescribed for its zoning district.
Some PRIMARY LOTS may be irregular in shape; and
      (4)   SECONDARY LOT. A parcel of land with boundaries changed from the
original plat by survey or real estate transactions, but still containing the
minimum area prescribed for its zoning district.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot where the interior angle of two adjacent sides at the
intersection of the two streets is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a
curved street, or streets, shall be considered a corner lot for the purposes of
this chapter if the arc is of less radius than 150 feet and the tangents to the
curve, at the two points were the lot lines meet the curve or the straight
street line extended, form an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings or
structures including accessory buildings or structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than the corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined below:
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, the line separating
the lot from the street, in the case of a corner or double frontage lot, the
line separating the lot from that street which is designated as the front
street in the plot. Establishment of lot frontage is an integral part of the
planning and approval steps in development, requiring approval of the Planning
Commission and other agencies. It is not therefore, a prerogative of the owner
or builder.
         (a)   In the case of all future construction, lot frontage will be
identified in the preliminary and final platting. In the future development of
areas bordering on a lake, river, or canal, the established water or shore line
will be designated as the front of the lots.
         (b)   In the case of areas of one or more blocks already partially
developed, the siting of existing primary buildings therein establishes the
frontage for the area.
         (c)   In the case of a request to establish or designate lot frontage
as an exception existing frontages in the same area, the request will be
reviewed by the Planning Commission and then resolved by the Zoning Board of
Appeals on a case-by-case basis.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot irregularly shaped at the rear, the rear lot line shall be an
imaginary line parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long,
lying farthest from the front lot line and wholly within the lot; and
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line other that the front lot line or rear
lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot or parcel existing prior to the adoption of this
chapter and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds. For the
purposes of this chapter, land contracts and purchase options not recorded in
the County Register of Deeds office, but dated and executed prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall also constitute a lot of record.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
the two points where the building line or setback intersects the side lot line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein. MANUFACTURED HOME does not include recreational vehicles.
   MASTER PLAN. The statement of policy by the Village Planning Commission
relative to the agreed-upon desirable physical pattern of future community
development. Consists of a series of maps, charts, and written material
representing in summary form the soundest conception of the community as to how
it should grow in order to bring about the very best community living
conditions.
   MOBILE HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel or tract of land under the control of a person
upon which three or more manufactured homes are located on a continual,
nonrecreational basis and which is offered to the public for that purpose
regardless of whether a charge is made therefor, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment, or facility used or intended for use
incident to the occupancy of a manufactured home.
   MODULAR HOME. A prefabricated structure, transported in one or more sections
by flatbed trailer or other means to the site where they are removed from their
transporter by crane or other lifting device and assembled on permanent
foundations, to form single family dwellings which are either attached in rows
or clusters, stacked, or detached.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS. A building or portion thereof, existing at the
effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and which does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
time this chapter or amendments thereto became effective, and which does not
conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSING or CONVALESCENT HOME. A structure with sleeping rooms where persons
are housed or lodged and furnished meals and nursing care for hire.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT. A facility providing vehicular parking spaces along
with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering so as to provide access for
entrance and exit for the parking of more than two automobiles.
   OPEN SPACE. Any space suitable for recreation, gardens, or household service
activities such as clothes drying. The space must be at least 75% open to the
sky, free of automotive traffic, parking, and undue hazard, and readily
accessible by all those for whom it is required.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width, exclusive of drives,
aisles or entrances, which is fully accessible for the parking of permitted
vehicles. Perpendicular and angle parking spaces shall have a minimum dimension
of nine feet by 18 feet. Parallel parking shall be a minimum of eight feet by
20 feet in dimension.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land which includes two or more
principal buildings, developed under single ownership or control, the
development of which is unique and of substantially different character than
that of surrounding area, and where the specific requirements of a given
district may be modified, and where the minimum area is fixed. The development
shall be based on a plan which allows for flexibility of design not available
under normal zoning district requirements.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission, as set forth in this
code, shall have the powers granted under the authority of the Municipal
Planning Act, Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through 125.45,
and the City and Village Zoning Act, Public Act 207 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.581 through 125.590. If the Village Council has not established a Planning
Commission, the authority shall rest with the Village Council, and references
to "Planning Commission" in this chapter shall be read as the "Village
Council," and references to "Planning Commission" or "Village Planning
Commission" in this chapter shall be read as "Village Council."
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and the main
purpose for which the premises exist.
   PUBLIC PARK. Any park, playground, beach, outdoor swimming pool, or parkway
within the jurisdiction and control of a governmental agency authorized by
state statutes to own and maintain parks.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. A central or community sanitary sewage and collection
system of pipes and structures including pipes, conduits, manholes, pumping
stations, sewage and waste water treatment works, diversion and regulatory
devices, and outfall structures, collectively or singularly, actually used or
intended for use by the general public or a segment thereof, for the purpose of
collecting, conveying, transporting, treating, or otherwise handling sanitary
sewage or industrial liquid wastes of such a nature as to be capable of
adversely affecting the public health; operated and maintained for the general
public.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, or corporation, municipal department,
board, or commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under state or
municipal regulations to the public, gas, steam, electricity, sewer disposal,
communication, telegraph, transportation, or water.
   RECREATIONAL AREA, PRIVATE. All lands and structures which are owned and
operated by private individuals, a business or corporation which are
predominantly intended to accommodate recreational vehicles and provide for
outdoor recreational activities.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. All those small mobile units principally designed for
recreational pastime.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment whose principal business is the sale of food
within an enclosed seating area. This shall exclude drive-in restaurants and
those uses whose principal business is the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   RETAIL and RETAIL STORES. Any building or structure in which goods, wares,
or merchandise are sold to the ultimate consumer for direct consumption and not
for resale.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A street, alley, or other thoroughfare or easement permanently
established for passage of persons or vehicles.
   ROADSIDE STAND. A permanent structure which is used seasonally for the sale
of produce. The use of a ROADSIDE STAND shall not constitute a commercial
district.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building, or part thereof, other than a hotel, where
sleeping accommodations are provided for hire and where meals may be regularly
furnished.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room, or group of rooms, forming a single habitable unit
used for living and sleeping, which does not contain cooking or eating
facilities.
   ROWHOUSE (TOWNHOUSE). An attached house in a row or group, each house
containing not more than two dwelling units and each house separated from
adjoining houses in the same row or group by common fire walls or fire
separation.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A use regulated by the state pursuant to the requirements
of Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq.
   SCHOOLS. A building used for the purpose of elementary or secondary
education, which meets all requirements of compulsory education laws of the
state, and not providing residential accommodations.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the street, rear, or side
lines of the lot and the front, rear, or side lines of the building. When two
or more lots under one ownership are used, the exterior property lines so
grouped shall be used in determining offsets.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed,
owned, and maintained as a unit, with off-street parking provided on the
property, and related in its location, size, and type of shops to the trade
area which the unit serves.
   SIGNS. Any words, numbers, figures, devices, designs, or trademarks by which
anything is made known other than billboards, such as are used to show an
individual, firm or professional business, and which are visible from the
exterior of the structure.
   SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. A plan or project consisting of not less than two
single-family units established in conformance with the Michigan Condominium
Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272.
   STORY. The part of a building included between the surface of one floor and
the surface of the next floor, or if there is no floor above, then the ceiling
next above.
   STREET. A thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STREET, MAJOR. A public way, the principal use of which is to provide an
arterial route for through traffic and has as its secondary use the provision
of access to abutting properties.
   STREET, MINOR. A public way, the principal use of which is to give access to
abutting properties.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. The erection, strengthening, removal, or other change
of the supporting elements of a building, such as footings, bearing walls,
beams, columns, and the like.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   SWIMMING POOLS. Any artificially constructed, portable or non-portable pool
capable of being used for swimming or bathing, having a depth of three feet or
more at any point.
   UNDEVELOPED LAND. Land which has soil types or a high water condition which
presents severe limitations on septic tank and tile fields.
   USABLE FLOOR AREA. The area for the purpose of computing parking and off-
street loading and unloading space, which is used for or intended to be used
for the sale of merchandise or services or for use to serve patrons, clients,
or customers. The floor area which is used or intended to be used principally
for the storage or processing of merchandise or utilities shall be excluded
from this computation of USABLE FLOOR AREA. Measurement of floor area shall be
the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building
measured from the interior faces of the exterior walls.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises of a building thereon is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained,
let, or leased.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter which the
Zoning Board of Appeals is permitted to grant when strict enforcement of the
provisions would cause undue hardship owing to circumstances unique to the
individual property on which the variance is sought.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with the main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
      (1)   FRONT YARD. A yard extending the full width of the lot, the depth
of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
nearest line of the main building.
      (2)   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the nearest line of the main building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. A yard between the main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The width of the required SIDE
YARD shall be measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot
line, to the nearest point of the main building.
   ZONING. See DISTRICT.
(Prior Code, § 741.02)
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
§ 152.020 DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT.
   The village is hereby divided into the following zoning districts as shown
on the Official Zoning Map, which together with all explanatory matter shown
thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter:
   (A)   R1 Low Density Residential District;
   (B)   R2 Medium Density Residential District;
   (C)   R3 Multiple-Family Residential District;
   (D)   R4 Mixed Residential District;
   (E)   MHP Mobile Home Park District;
   (F)   B Business District;
   (G)   CS Community Service Commercial District;
   (H)   HS Highway Commercial District;
   (I)   LI Light Industrial District;
   (J)   HI Heavy Industrial District; and
   (K)   OAC Open Space, Agricultural, and Waterbody Conservation District.
(Prior Code, § 745.01)
§ 152.021 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   These districts, so established, are bounded and defined as shown on the map
entitled "Zoning District Map of Homer Village," adopted by the Council, and
which, with all notations, references, and other information appearing thereon,
is hereby declared to be a part of this chapter and of the same force and
effect as if the districts shown thereon were fully set forth by metes and
bounds herein.
(Prior Code, § 745.02)
§ 152.022 MAP CHANGES.
   If, in accordance with the procedures of this chapter and of Public Act 207
of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 through 125.590, as amended, a change is
made in a zoning district boundary, the change shall be made by the Zoning
Inspector promptly after the ordinance authorizing the change shall have been
adopted and published by the Council. No change of any other nature shall be
made unless authorized by the Planning Commission and approved by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 745.03)
§ 152.023 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP LOCATION.
   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning Map
which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map which
shall be located in the village offices, shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of any land, parcel, lot, district, use, building, or
structure in the village.
(Prior Code, § 745.04)
§ 152.024 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP REPLACEMENT.
   In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost,
or difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes made
thereto, the Council may by ordinance adopt a new official zoning map. The new
official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions on the
prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of
amending this chapter or the prior Official Zoning Map. The new official zoning
map shall be identified by the signature of the Village President, attested to
by the Village Clerk, and bearing the seal of the village under the following
words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in
the Zoning Code of Homer Village adopted on the _______ day of ____ which
replaces and supersedes the Official Zoning Map which was adopted on
_______________."
(Prior Code, § 745.05)
§ 152.025 BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION RULES.
   (A)   Generally. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of zoning
districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map, the following rules for
interpretation shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   A boundary indicated as approximately following the center line of
a highway, street, alley, railroad, or easement shall be construed as following
the center line.
      (2)   A boundary indicated as approximately following a recorded lot
line, bounding a parcel, section line, quarter-section line, or other survey
line shall be construed as following the line.
      (3)   A boundary indicated as approximately following the corporate
boundary line of a city, village, or township shall be construed as following
the line.
      (4)   A boundary indicated as following a shoreline shall be construed as
following the shoreline, and in the event of change in a shoreline, shall be
construed as following the actual shoreline.
      (5)   A boundary indicated as following the center line of a stream,
river, canal, lake, or other body of water shall be construed as following the
center line.
      (6)   A boundary indicated as parallel to or an extension of a feature
indicated in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5) above shall be so construed.
      (7)   A distance not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map
shall be determined by the scale of the map.
(Prior Code, § 745.06)
§ 152.026 MINIMUM REGULATIONS.
   The regulations established by this chapter within each zoning district
shall be the minimum regulations for promoting and protecting the public
health, safety, and general welfare and shall be uniform for each class of land
building, dwellings, and structures throughout each district. Where there are
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of carrying out the
strict letter of this chapter, the Board of Appeals shall have the power in
passing on appeals to vary or modify the interpretation of any rules,
regulations, or provisions of this chapter so that the intent and purpose of
this chapter shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice
done. Provided, however, that when any proposed interpretation, in effect,
changes the language of this chapter, the Zoning Board of Appeals will first
recommend an appropriate amendment to the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 745.07)
AMENDMENT
§ 152.040 AMENDMENT INITIATION; FEES.
   The Council may from time to time, on recommendation from the Planning
Commission, amend, modify, supplement, or revise the district boundaries or the
provisions and regulations herein established whenever the public necessity and
convenience and the general welfare require the amendment. The amendment may be
initiated by resolution of the Council, the Planning Commission, or by petition
of one or more owners of property to be affected by the proposed amendment.
Except for the Council or the Planning Commission, the petitioner or
petitioners requesting an amendment shall at the time of application pay a fee
in the amount to be set by the Council, no part of which shall be returnable to
the petitioner.
(Prior Code, § 744.01)
§ 152.041 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Generally. The procedure for making amendments to this chapter shall
be as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Each petition for amendment initiated by one or more owners of
property shall be submitted to the Council who shall refer it for recommended
action to the Planning Commission. Amendments initiated by resolution of the
Council shall also be referred to the Planning Commission for recommended
action.
      (2)   After deliberations on any proposal, the Planning Commission shall
conduct a public hearing, notice of the time and place shall be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village to be printed
not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing. The notice shall include
the places and times at which the tentative text and any maps of this chapter
may be examined.
      (3)   Upon completion of the public hearings provided above, the
petition, resolution, or motion shall be returned to or turned over to the
Council by the Planning Commission for action in accordance with M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 through 125.3702, as amended.
      (4)   After receiving the proposed amendment, the Council may adopt the
amendment with or without changes in accordance with the provisions and
procedures of M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702.
      (5)   All provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to the
provisions of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101
through 125.3702, as the same may be from time to time amended, which Act is
incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 744.02)
§ 152.042 CONFORMANCE TO DECREE.
   Any amendment for the purpose of conforming a provision of this chapter to
the decree of a court of competent jurisdiction or to an applicable state law
or code, shall be prepared by the Planning Commission and approved by the
Council without further referral to other agencies.
(Prior Code, § 744.03)
VARIANCE
§ 152.055 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION.
   Where hardships, extraordinary circumstances, or practical difficulties in
complying with a certain provision or requirement of this chapter exist, the
Village Council may, upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission, vary
or modify any of the provisions or requirements herein contained so that the
spirit of this chapter and the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293 shall be observed and an adequate development encouraged.
(Prior Code, § 725.01)
§ 152.056 GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning Commission shall recommend a variance only if
it finds that the following facts exist.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
clearly be impractical or unreasonable.
      (2)   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the
property is situated.
      (3)   The variance will not violate the provisions of the Land Division
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293.
      (4)   The variance will not have the effect of changing a land use under
this chapter. Any proposed change in land use shall be in the form of an
application requesting an amendment to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 725.02)
§ 152.057 PLANNING COMMISSION FINDINGS.
   The findings of the Planning Commission shall be included in its
recommendation to the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 725.03)
§ 152.058 PROPOSED VARIANCE.
   If a proposed variance should be determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals
under the provisions of this chapter, the Village Council shall forward the
proposed variance, together with the Planning Commissions's recommendations, to
the Zoning Board of Appeals for decision.
(Prior Code, § 725.04)
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 152.070 PURPOSE.
   There are certain conditions concerning land uses that warrant specific
regulations and standards in addition to the requirements of the zoning
districts in which they are located.
(Prior Code, § 746.01)
§ 152.071 ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   (A)   Where an accessory building is attached to the side or front of a
principal building, the accessory building shall be considered part of the
principal building for purposes of determining required yard dimensions; but if
the accessory building is attached to the rear of the principal building in
such a manner that it is completely to the rear of all portions of the
building, it may be considered a detached accessory building for purposes of
determining required yard dimensions.
   (B)   No detached accessory building shall be located nearer to a side lot
line than the permitted distance for the principal building on the same lot,
unless the accessory building shall be completely to the rear of all portions
of the principal building, in which case it may be located no nearer than five
feet to any side lot line.
   (C)   No detached accessory building shall be located nearer than five feet
to any rear lot line, except that when the accessory building shall be a garage
which is entered at right angles to an alley, it shall be located no nearer
than 12 feet to the rear lot line.
   (D)   No accessory building shall project into any front yard setback.
   (E)   No accessory building shall occupy more than 30% of the area of any
rear yard.
   (F)   Where a corner lot adjoins a side boundary of a lot in any residential
district, no accessory building shall be located nearer to the side street lot
line than the side yard setback of the principal building on the lot.
(Prior Code, § 746.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.072 LOT BUILDING RELATIONSHIP.
   Hereafter, every building erected, altered, or moved shall be located on a
lot of record as defined herein, and except in the case of an approved
multiple-dwelling development, there shall be no more than one principal
building and its permitted accessory structure located on each lot in a
residential district.
(Prior Code, § 746.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.073 ACCESSORY BUILDING, BASEMENT PROHIBITED AS DWELLING.
   (A)   Accessory building as dwelling. No accessory building on the same lot
as a principal building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
(Prior Code, § 746.04)
   (B)   Basement as dwelling. No basement structure shall be used for
occupancy unless a completed story is situated immediately above the basement
structure and that story is used as a dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 746.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.074 WATER AND SEWERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to the requirements established by the County
Health Department, the following site development and use requirements shall
apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No structure for human occupancy or use shall hereafter be erected,
altered, or moved unless it shall be provided with a safe, sanitary, and
potable water supply and a safe effective means of collection, treatment, and
disposal of wastes, in addition to the requirements of
Chapter 51.
      (2)   No drain field for a septic tank system shall be located nearer
than 150 feet from the normal high water line of any surface body of water, nor
located in an area where the ground surface is less than four feet above the
normal high water table level.
(Prior Code, § 746.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.075 GREENBELT BUFFER.
   Prior to the commencement of construction of any structure or building in a
commercial district or industrial district where the property abuts, adjoins,
or is adjacent to a residential zone, a greenbelt shall be established.
However, where permitted elsewhere in this chapter, an opaque wall or fence may
be built in lieu of a greenbelt. A greenbelt, minimum width of 20 feet, shall
be completed within six months from the date of final inspection and shall
thereafter be maintained with permanent plant materials.
(Prior Code, § 746.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.076 STREET ACCESS.
   Any lot of record created prior to the effective date of this chapter
without any frontage on a public street or way shall not be occupied, except
where access to a public street or way is provided by a public or private
easement or other right-of-way no less than 20 feet in width. Public access to
commercial or industrial uses shall not be designated so as to pass through the
residential neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 746.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.077 INTERSECTION VISIBILITY.
   No fence, wall, hedge, screen, sign, structure, vegetation, or planting
shall be higher than three feet above street grade on any corner lot or parcel
in any zoning district requiring front and side yards within the triangular
area formed by the intersecting street right-of-way lines and a straight line
joining the two street lines at points which are 30 feet distant from the point
of the intersection, measured along the street right-of-way lines.
(Prior Code, § 746.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.078 STREET CLOSURE.
   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated by official
action, the zoning district adjoining each side of the public way shall
automatically be extended to the center of the vacation, and all area included
therein shall henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of that
district within which the area is located.
(Prior Code, § 746.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.079 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   The height requirements established by this chapter shall apply uniformly in
each zoning district to every building and structure, except that the following
structures and appurtenances shall be exempt from the height requirements of
this chapter; spires, belfries, penthouses, and domes not used for human
occupancy; chimneys, ventilators, skylights, water tanks, bulkheads, utility
poles, power lines, radio and television broadcasting and receiving antennas,
cellular communications towers and antennas, silos, parables, and other
necessary mechanical appurtenances, provided their location shall conform where
applicable to the requirements of the Federal Communications Commission, the
Civil Aeronautics Administration, and other public authorities having
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 746.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.080 FENCES; WALLS; SCREENS.
   Within the limits of a side or front yard space of a lot within a
residential district, no fence, wall, other than a necessary retaining wall, or
other screening structure shall be higher than six feet. No fence or wall
located within a rear yard shall exceed eight feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 746.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.081 PROHIBITION OF OIL OR GAS WELLS.
   No oil or gas well shall be drilled within the village limits.
(Prior Code, § 306.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.082 SHORELINE EXCAVATION; DREDGING.
   No persons shall alter, change, transform, or otherwise vary the edge, bank,
or shore of any lake, river, or stream, except in conformance with the
following:
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of the State Department of
Environmental Quality; and
   (B)   If any edge, bank, or shore of any lake, river, or stream is proposed
to be altered in any way by any person, the person shall submit to the Planning
Commission all data, exhibits, and information as required by the State
Department of Environmental Quality.
(Prior Code, § 746.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.083 ESSENTIAL SERVICES EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Generally. For purposes of this chapter, the following provisions
shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The surface of land used for a right-of-way for a pipe line or
other underground utility shall be restored and maintained to the original
condition existing prior to construction, or to an improved condition in
conformance with the planned use of the area, if the latter be specified by the
building permit.
      (2)   Essential services shall be exempt from lot area requirements in
the Light Industrial, Heavy Industrial, and Open Space, Agricultural, and
Waterbody Conservation Districts.
(Prior Code, § 746.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.084 SWIMMING POOLS.
   All swimming pools shall conform to the requirements of the County Health
Department. Swimming pools to be constructed or which are already constructed
shall be enclosed by a fence, wall, or other structure which shall be at least
four feet in height as measured from the outside. Any opening under the bottom
of the fence shall not be more than four inches in height. A fence or wall
enclosure shall be of a type that impedes climbing by small children and shall
be equipped with a gate that is a self-closing and latching type with the latch
on the pool side of the gate. The entrance shall lead to the shallow end of the
pool. If the entire premises is enclosed by a fence or a wall, this requirement
may be waived.
(Prior Code, § 746.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.085 CONTINUING CONFORMANCE OBLIGATION.
   The maintenance of yards, open spaces, lot areas, height and bulk
limitations, fences, walls, clear vision areas, parking and loading spaces, and
all other requirements for a building or use specified within this chapter
shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of the building or property on
which the building or use is located.
(Prior Code, § 746.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.086 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   In all districts, in connection with industrial, business, institutional,
recreational, residential, or other use, there shall be provided at the time
any building is erected, or uses established, enlarged, or increased in
capacity, off-street parking spaces for automobiles with the requirements
herein specified.
   (A)   Plans and specifications showing required off-street parking spaces,
including the means of access and interior circulation, for the above uses,
shall be submitted to the Zoning Inspector for review at the time of
application for a building permit. Required off-street parking facilities shall
be located on the same lot as the principal building or on a lot within 300
feet thereof, except that this distance shall not exceed 150 feet for single-
family and two-family dwellings. The distance specified shall be measured from
the nearest point of the parking facility to the nearest point of the lot
occupied by the building or use that the facility is required to serve.
   (B)   No parking area or parking space which exists at the time this chapter
becomes effective or which subsequent thereto is provided for the purpose of
complying with the provisions of this chapter shall thereafter be relinquished
or reduced in any manner below the requirements established by this chapter
unless additional parking area or space is provided sufficient for the purpose
of complying with this chapter within 300 feet of the proposed or existing uses
for which the parking will be available.
   (C)   Parking of motor vehicles in residential zones shall be limited to
passenger vehicles, one nonresidential-type recreational vehicle, and not more
than one commercial vehicle of the light delivery type, not to exceed three-
fourths ton, per dwelling unit. The parking of any other type of commercial
vehicle, without express permission, is prohibited. Parking spaces for all
types of uses may be provided either in garages or parking areas conforming to
the provisions of this chapter. Exceptions to the foregoing restrictions are:
      (1)   Commercial vehicles or buses parked on school or church property;
      (2)   Any vehicle which is parked within an existing garage on
residential property; and
      (3)   Any vehicle with an approved permit issued by the Village Clerk,
after Planning Commission approval, such as:
         (a)   A truck larger than three-fourths ton or a truck-tractor
(without trailer), when the vehicle can be shown to be the prime source of
business for the owner/occupant of the residential property, and also his or
her prime source of transport to his or her business;
         (b)   A residential-type recreation vehicle, provided it is not used,
or to be used, on the premises as a dwelling unit. This classification includes
a self-propelled or towed vehicle, or a trailer, or a truck-mounted vehicular
component which is designed, intended, licensed, and used for occasional travel
by individuals, families, sportspeople, or other groups, to and from vacation,
resort, or other sports areas, with living therein only during the recreational
travel. Where doubt as to proper classification exists, the building code will
govern;
         (c)   Visitors to residents or the village, who arrive by any form of
residential type recreational vehicle, may park the vehicle at the host's
residence for a maximum of 15 days without a permit, provided the vehicle is
not to be used as a living quarters during the stay. If a longer stay is
contemplated or develops, the regular application for parking permit should be
submitted, indicating proposed length of stay;
         (d)   Final approval of permits is contingent on verification by a
member of the Planning Commission that the proposed location of the vehicle
does not infringe upon the property rights of the immediate neighbors; and
         (e)   Permits require annual renewal; however, if the applicant
certifies that all conditions of the original application, to include vehicle
description and location, are unchanged, the Village Clerk may issue a renewal
without reference to the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Each off-street parking space for an automobile shall not be less than
160 square feet in area, exclusive of access drives or aisles, and shall be of
usable shape and condition. There shall be provided a minimum access drive of
13 feet in width, and where a turning radius is necessary, it will be of such
an arc as to reasonably allow an unobstructed flow of vehicles. Access aisles
for automobiles shall be of sufficient width to allow a minimum turning
movement in and out of a parking space. The minimum width of the aisle shall
be:
      (1)   For 90-degree or perpendicular parking, the aisle shall not be less
than 25 feet in width;
      (2)   For 60-degree parking, the aisle shall not be less than 13 feet in
width;
      (3)   For 45-degree parking, the aisle shall not be less than 13 feet in
width; and
      (4)   For parallel parking, the aisle shall not be less than eight feet
in width.
   (E)   Off-street parking facilities required for churches may be reduced by
50% where churches are located in nonresidential districts and within 300 feet
of a usable public or private off-street parking area.
   (F)   Off-street parking facilities for trucks at restaurants, service
stations, and other similar and related uses shall be of sufficient size to
adequately serve trucks and not interfere with other vehicles that use the same
facilities. The truck space shall not be less than ten feet in width and 55
feet in length.
   (G)   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking
area shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements.
      (1)   All off-street parking spaces shall not be closer than five feet to
any property line, except where a wall, fence, or compact planting strip exists
as a parking barrier along the property line.
      (2)   All off-street parking areas shall be drained so as to prevent
drainage to abutting properties and shall be constructed of materials which
will have a dust-free surface resistant to erosion.
      (3)   Any lighting fixtures used to illuminate any off-street parking
area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from any adjoining
premises and streets.
      (4)   Any off-street parking area providing space for five or more
vehicles shall be effectively screened on any side which adjoins or faces
property adjoining a residential lot or institution by a wall, fence, or
compact planting not less than four feet in height. Plantings shall be
maintained in good condition and not encroach on adjoining property.
      (5)   All off-street parking areas that make it necessary for vehicles to
back out directly onto a public road are prohibited, provided that this
prohibition shall not apply to off-street parking areas of one- or two-family
dwellings.
      (6)   Combined parking facilities are allowed when two or more uses occur
on one property or when building(s) on one property contain two or more uses,
provided that the permanent allocation of the required number of parking spaces
shall be the sum of the requirements for the various uses and computed in
accordance with this chapter. Parking facilities for one use shall not be
considered as providing the required parking facilities for any other use,
except churches.
   (H)   Any sign intended to advertise parking or loading facilities shall be
constructed in accordance with the regulations specified in §§
152.340 through
152.346.
   (I)   A business involving the repair, service, sale, or display of vehicles
is prohibited in areas used for parking or loading.
   (J)   For the purpose of determining off-street parking requirements, the
following units of measurement shall apply.
      (1)   Floor area. In the case of uses where the floor area is the unit
for determining the required number of off-street parking spaces, the unit
shall mean the gross floor area, except that the floor area need not include
any area used for incidental service storage installations of mechanical
equipment, penthouses, housing ventilators, and heating systems, and similar
uses.
      (2)   Places of assembly. In stadiums, sports arenas, churches, and other
places of assembly in which those in attendance occupy benches, pews, or other
similar seating facilities, each 18 inches of the seating facilities shall be
counted as one seat. In cases where a place of assembly has both fixed seats
and open assembly areas, requirements shall be computed separately for each
type and added together.
      (3)   Fractions. When units of measurement determining the number of
required parking spaces result in the requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction of one-half or more shall require one space.
   (K)   The minimum required off-street parking spaces shall be set forth as
follows:
      (1)   Automobile or machinery sales and service garages. One space for
each 200 square feet of showroom floor area plus two spaces for each service
bay plus one space for each two employees on the maximum shift;
      (2)   Banks; business and professional offices. Two spaces for each 200
square feet of floor area plus one space for each employee working within the
building;
      (3)   Barber shops and beauty parlors. Two spaces for each chair plus one
space for each employee;
      (4)   Boarding and lodging houses; fraternities. Two spaces for every
three beds;
      (5)   Bowling lanes. Five spaces for each alley plus one space for each
employee per shift;
      (6)   Churches, auditoriums, stadiums, sports arenas, theaters, dance
halls, and assembly halls, other than schools. One space for each four seats,
or for every four persons permitted in the edifice as stated by the Fire Chief;
      (7)   Clinics. Four spaces for each doctor plus one space for each
employee per shift;
      (8)   Convalescent home, orphanage, or similar use. One space for each
four beds plus one space for each two employees, including nurses, per shift;
      (9)   Drive-in banks, cleaners, and similar businesses. Storage space for
five cars between the sidewalk area and the service window and one space for
each two employees;
      (10)   Drive-in eating establishments. Ten spaces, plus one space for
every 20 square feet of floor area;
      (11)   Dwellings (single- and two-family). Two spaces for each family
dwelling unit;
      (12)   Dwellings (multiple-family). Two spaces per dwelling unit;
      (13)   Funeral homes and mortuaries. Four spaces for each slumber room or
one space for each 50 square feet of floor area, whichever is greater, plus one
space for each fleet vehicle;
      (14)   Furniture, appliance stores, household equipment, and furniture
repair shops. One space for each 400 square feet of floor area;
      (15)   Gasoline filling and service stations. One space for each repair
and service stall, plus one space for each employee per shift;
      (16)   General office building. One space for each 400 square feet of
gross floor area excluding auto parking within or on the building, plus one
space per two employees per shift;
      (17)   Hospitals. One space for each bed plus one space for each two
employees;
      (18)   Hotels, motels, lodging houses, and tourist and boarding homes.
One space for each living unit plus one space for every two employees per
shift;
      (19)   Libraries, museums, and post offices. One space for every 800
square feet of floor area plus one space for every two employees per shift;
      (20)   Manufacturing, fabricating, processing, and bottling plants;
research and testing laboratories. One space for every two employees on maximum
shift;
      (21)   Restaurants, beer parlors, taverns, night clubs, and private
clubs. One space for every four patron seats, plus one space for every two
employees per shift;
      (22)   Retail stores, except as otherwise specified herein. One space for
every 150 square feet of floor area excluding auto parking space within the
building;
      (23)   Roadside stands. Five spaces, plus one space for every 25 square
feet of floor area;
      (24)   Schools, private or public, elementary and junior high. One space
for each employee normally engaged in or about the building grounds plus one
space for every 30 students enrolled;
      (25)   Senior high school and institution of higher learning, private or
public. One space for each employee (including teachers and administrators)
plus one space for every ten students, in addition to the requirements of the
auditorium;
      (26)   Self-service laundry or dry cleaning stores. One space for every
two washing and/or dry-cleaning machines;
      (27)   Super market, self-service food, and discount stores. Two spaces
for every 200 square feet of floor area plus one space for each two employees
per shift; and
      (28)   Wholesale establishments and warehouses. One space for every 400
square feet of floor area plus one space for each two employees.
   (L)   Where a use is not specifically mentioned, the parking requirements of
a similar or related use shall apply.
   (M)   Permits for temporary stands for seasonal sales (not exceeding 60-days
duration) may be issued by the Zoning Inspector after coordinating parking
requirements with the police agency having route jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 749.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.087 LOADING, UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   In connection with every building or part thereof hereafter erected, except
single- and two-family dwelling unit structures, there shall be provided on the
same lot with the buildings, off-street loading and unloading spaces for uses
which customarily receive or distribute material or merchandise by vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 749.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
R1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.100 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this District is to promote and encourage suitable
environments for low density family life until the time as it may be in the
public interest to promote development of greater intensity requiring higher
levels of public services and utilities.
(Prior Code, § 751.01)
§ 152.101 PERMITTED USES.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots, buildings
and structures are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings (including manufactured homes) and any use,
building, or structure accessory thereto;
   (B)   A sign in accordance with the requirements specified in §
152.342;
   (C)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283;
   (D)   Customary home occupations such as hair dressing, millinery,
dressmaking, bookkeeping and accounting services, real estate and insurance
sales, professional offices for not more than one physician, surgeon, dentist,
attorney, architect, engineer, or similar professional practitioner, provided
that the home occupation shall satisfy the following conditions.
      (1)   The nonresidential use shall be only incidental to the primary
residential use of the property.
      (2)   A home occupation located in the principal structure shall utilize
no more than 30% of the total floor area of any one story of the structure so
used. A home occupation located in an accessory building shall utilize no more
than 50% of the total floor area of the building.
      (3)   The home occupation shall involve not more than one employee other
than members of the immediate family residing on the premises.
      (4)   All activities shall be conducted indoors.
      (5)   Limited structural alterations or additions, either interior or
exterior, may be permitted in order to accommodate a home occupation, but
internal or external alterations or construction features or equipment or
machinery not customarily located in residential areas shall not be allowed.
      (6)   There shall be no external evidence of the occupation except a
small announcement sign as specified herein.
      (7)   No home occupation shall be permitted which is injurious to the
general character of the residential district and which creates hazardous or
unhealthy conditions.
      (8)   No articles or service shall be sold or offered for sale except as
are produced by the home occupation.
      (9)   For the purpose of this provision, principal and accessory farm
operations shall not be considered home occupations.
(Prior Code, § 751.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.102 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following buildings and structures and uses of parcels, lots, and
structures may be allowed in this District, subject to obtaining a conditional
use permit as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303:
   (A)   Golf courses, which may include a golf driving range; country club,
public swimming pool, swimming and recreation club, public and private park and
playground;
   (B)   Churches and public buildings;
   (C)   Public and private nurseries; primary and secondary schools;
   (D)   Temporary buildings or trailer offices;
   (E)   Planned unit residential developments; and
   (F)   Camps and lodges.
(Prior Code, § 751.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.103 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in an R1 Low Density Residential
District.
   (A)   Lot area. No single-family dwelling or accessory uses thereto shall be
established in the District on any lot less than 13,000 square feet. All other
uses shall have a lot not less than one acre.
   (B)   Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
   (C)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 20%.
   (D)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 50 feet from the property line;
      (2)   Side yard. The least width of either side yard shall be 20 feet,
except in the case of a corner lot, where the side yard on the road or street
shall conform to the average front yard of dwellings on the road or street;
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 40 feet from the property line; and
      (4)   Application. The above requirements shall apply to every lot,
building, or structure.
   (E)   Height.
      (1)   For buildings and structures, no building or structure shall exceed
a height of two and one-half stories, but not exceeding 35 feet.
      (2)   For detached accessory buildings, no detached accessory building
shall exceed a height of 25 feet.
   (F)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking is as required in §
152.086.
   (G)   Floor area. The minimum floor area requirement per dwelling unit is
1,000 square feet.
   (H)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes, when installed, shall compare aesthetically to
site-built housing located or allowed in this District. Roofs shall have a
minimum pitch of 5/12.
      (2)   Each manufactured home site shall meet the installation, utility
hookup, and anchoring requirements defined in Rules 602, 603, and 605 of the
Mobile Home Commission Rules.
      (3)   Manufactured homes not installed on a basement or a crawl space-
type foundation shall be installed on a support system that includes a frost
free foundation and a concrete slab supported on the ground encompassing the
area under the manufactured home. These components of the support system shall
conform to the village construction code.
      (4)   Towing mechanisms shall be removed from the manufactured home at
the time of installation and stored so as not to be visible from the perimeter
of the lot on which the home is installed.
      (5)   Skirting shall be installed around the perimeter of all
manufactured homes and shall meet the requirements defined in Rule 604 of the
Mobile Home Commission Rules. The skirting shall be compatible aesthetically
with the appearance and construction of the manufactured home, and shall be
installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Prior Code, § 751.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
R2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.115 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this District is to provide a stable environment for medium
to high density residential areas with suitable open space. This District shall
generally be located on the fringe of urban type development. This District
allows flexibility of lot size dependent upon the availability of public sewer
and water services.
(Prior Code, § 752.01)
§ 152.116 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures, are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings as specified in §
152.101(A);
   (B)   Two-family dwellings and any use, building, or structure accessory
thereto;
   (C)   A sign in accordance with the regulations specified in §
152.342;
   (D)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283; and
   (E)   Home occupations, as prescribed in §
152.101(D).
(Prior Code, § 752.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.117 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures, may be permitted, subject to obtaining a conditional
use permit as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303:
   (A)   Golf courses;
   (B)   Country clubs, public swimming pools, and recreation clubs, private
and public parks and playgrounds;
   (C)   Churches and public buildings;
   (D)   Public and private nurseries; primary and secondary schools;
   (E)   Planned unit residential developments; and
   (F)   Funeral homes in accordance with §
152.086(K)(13).
(Prior Code, § 752.03) (Ord. 2015-001, passed 3-2-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.118 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in an R2 Medium Density Residential
District:
   (A)   Lot area. There shall be provided a minimum of 8,000 square feet of
lot area for each single-family dwelling unit and 15,000 square feet of lot
area for each two-family dwelling unit. The minimum lot area for all other
buildings and structures shall be one acre;
   (B)   Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 66 feet;
   (C)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 30%;
   (D)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 35 feet. Provided that where established
primary buildings in the same block have front yards substantially less than
the prescribed 35 feet, a new building may be sited with a front yard which is
the average of the two established front yards immediately adjacent. Provided
further that this amendment will not be interpreted to permit a front yard
depth less than 25 feet;
      (2)   Side yard. Least width of either yard shall not be less than eight
feet, but the sum of the two side yards shall not be less than 20 feet, except
in the case of a corner lot, where the side yard on the road or street side
shall not be less than 25 feet;
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 35 feet; and
      (4)   Application. The above requirements shall apply to every lot,
building, or structure.
   (E)   Height.
      (1)   For buildings and structures, no building or structure shall exceed
a height of two and one-half stories, but not exceeding 35 feet.
      (2)   For detached accessory buildings, no detached accessory building
shall exceed a height of 25 feet.
   (F)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking is as required in §
152.086;
   (G)   Floor area. The minimum floor area requirement per dwelling unit is
1,000 square feet; and
   (H)   Manufactured homes. See §
152.103(H).
(Prior Code, § 752.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
R3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.130 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this District is to provide for various types of multiple-
family residential dwellings and group developments at densities higher than
medium, but under specific density controls. The requirements of this District
are intended to recognize that various forms of site development are desirable
in order to provide a wide range of choices of living environments, but at the
same time to regulate the developments in order to prevent congestion of the
public streets, reduce hazards to life and property, and provide basic
amenities. This District will generally be located in areas of concentrated
urban development on or near major streets and will be served by public water
and sewage systems and other appropriate urban facilities, particularly fire
protection systems. There is no intent to promote through regulations, a
district of lower quality or desirability than any other residential district,
although a higher density of population and a greater variety of dwelling types
are permitted herein. Sites approved by the Planning Commission and the
Council, after appropriate petition, public hearing and review, will be rezoned
as R3.1 Districts if originally in R1 or OAC Districts, and as R3.2 Districts
if in existing R2 Districts. All will be subject to the following regulations.
(Prior Code, § 753.01)
§ 152.131 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings and structures and uses of parcels, lots, buildings,
and structures are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Two-family dwellings;
   (B)   A sign in accordance with the requirements specified in §
152.342; and
   (C)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283.
(Prior Code, § 753.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.132 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following buildings and structures and uses of parcels, lots, and
structures are permitted in the R3.1 and R3.2 Districts, subject to obtaining a
conditional use permit as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303:
   (A)   Multiple dwellings;
   (B)   Group housing and garden apartment developments;
   (C)   Golf courses;
   (D)   Country clubs, public swimming pools and recreation clubs, private and
public parks or playgrounds;
   (E)   Churches and public buildings;
   (F)   Public and private nurseries; primary and secondary schools; and
   (G)   Planned unit residential developments.
(Prior Code, § 753.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.133 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   In the R3.1 and R3.2 Multiple-Family Residential Districts, every multiple
dwelling or group of buildings within a group housing development hereafter
constructed or structurally altered shall be located on sites of no less than
specified below:
   (A)   When developed under PURD (§
152.294), the minimum site will be no less than five acres.
   (B)   When developed in an R3.1 District, re-zoned from an R1 or OAC
District, the minimum site will be no less than two acres.
   (C)   When developed under either divisions (A) or (B) above, the following
prescribes specific area allowances:
      (1)   Twenty thousand square feet for the first dwelling unit of each
multiple dwelling structure;
      (2)   Two thousand square feet for each additional dwelling unit
containing two or more bedrooms; and
      (3)   One thousand five hundred square feet for each additional dwelling
unit containing one bedroom.
   (D)   When developed in an R3.2 District, rezoned from an R2 District, the
minimum site for one apartment building will be four standard R2 lots (66 feet
by 132 feet). All plans for apartment units in the R3.2 District will be based
on the following area allowances:
      (1)   Fifteen thousand square feet for the first dwelling unit of each
multiple dwelling structure;
      (2)   One thousand five hundred square feet for each additional dwelling
unit containing two or more bedrooms; and
      (3)   One thousand square feet for each additional dwelling unit
containing one bedroom.
(Prior Code, § 753.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.134 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Site coverage. In determining the net land area for the basis of
computing site coverage, only the area used for private access drives will be
deducted from the gross area.
      (1)   For development within the R3.1 District, all buildings, including
accessory buildings and conditional use buildings, shall not exceed 35% of
their net area of the land.
      (2)   For development within the R3.2 District, the total area covered by
apartment buildings, porches, patios, sidewalks, and parking areas, shall not
exceed 40% of the net land area, with the remaining 60% reserved for
playground, private lawns, and maintained open space (lawn, shrubs, trees, and
the like).
   (B)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard having a depth of no less
than 35 feet, provided that where established buildings on adjacent lots vary
from this minimum, a new building shall be constructed with a front yard of no
less depth than the average front yard for those buildings located on each side
of the proposed building, provided further that this provision shall not be
interpreted to require a front yard of more than 40 feet nor less than 25 feet.
      (2)   Side yard. There shall be a minimum side yard of 20 feet, provided
that no building shall be located less than 40 feet from the boundary of any R1
Low Density Residential District, except in the case of a corner lot, where the
street side yard shall be no less than the minimum residential front yard
requirement along the street.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of no less than 35 feet.
   (C)   Other yard and open space requirements. The following requirements
shall apply to group housing projects when two or more garden apartment
buildings or mixture of housing types are located on the same parcel.
      (1)   The minimum horizontal distance between buildings (that is, front
to front, rear to rear, or front to rear, as the case may be) shall be 50 feet
for buildings one story in height, and shall be increased by no less than five
feet for each additional story in height. The minimum distance between
buildings may be decreased by as much as ten feet toward one end if it is
increased by an equal distance at the other, or if the buildings are staggered
in location so as to allow ample sunlight at ground level.
      (2)   The horizontal distance between ends of buildings shall be no less
than 25 feet. Where the end of one building is opposite the face or rear of
another building the minimum horizontal distance between them shall be
increased by no less than five feet for each additional story in height of each
building.
      (3)   The horizontal distance between corners of adjacent buildings that
do not face one another or overlap in any way shall be no less than 30 feet.
      (4)   Courts completely enclosed by building walls shall not be
permitted, provided that screens or fences not exceeding eight feet in height
shall not be deemed enclosing features.
      (5)   Distance between wings of a building forming an open court shall
not be less than the projection of the wings or less than the height of the
highest wall of the wings, whichever is the greater. The depth of an open court
formed by walls on three sides shall be no greater than one and one-half times
the width of the court.
      (6)   No building shall be closer than 25 feet to any street or private
access drive, neither shall any main entrance to a dwelling unit be closer than
15 feet to any street, private access road, driveway, or parking area.
      (7)   Private access drives shall meet the following minimum requirements
for safety and convenience.
         (a)   All private drives and parking areas shall be paved. Minimum
paved width of the streets shall be 22 feet. The paved area for each parking
space shall not be less than eight and one-half feet in width nor less than 18
feet in length. There shall be two parking spaces provided for each dwelling
unit.
         (b)   No cul-de-sac shall be more than 300 feet in length. Minimum
paved turning diameter of 75 feet shall be provided at the terminus of each
cul-de-sac.
         (c)   No dwelling unit in a development shall be located farther than
125 feet from a street or private access drive.
      (8)   Consistent modifications of the foregoing requirements may be made
by the Planning Commission in order to accommodate site plans which are not
conventional in design and to which these provisions do not apply; provided,
that the modifications shall not be less restrictive than those specified
herein.
      (9)   The requirements of divisions (C)(6) through (C)(8) above shall
also apply to multiple dwelling site development.
   (D)   Minimum floor area. The minimum floor area requirement per dwelling
unit is 800 square feet.
   (E)   Maximum building height. No building or structure shall exceed 35 feet
in height. Accessory buildings shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
   (F)   Minimum interior living space. The minimum space footage of interior
living space, exclusive of any area contained within attached garages, porches,
balconies, or common hallways, required for each family shall be as specified
below:
      (1)   Two-family dwellings. Five hundred fifty square feet of floor area
at ground level per family for single story dwellings, and 360 square feet of
floor area at ground level per family for dwellings over one story in height,
provided that the total area shall not be less than 550 square feet per family;
and
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings of three or more dwelling units. The
minimum square feet of living space shall include the following, in addition to
a bath, utility room, storage space, and other general space requirements, and
exclusive of closets, halls, or offset entrances:
 
Number of Bedrooms Living Room Dining Space Kitchen
1                  150         40           55
2                  160         50           60
3                  180         60           65
4                  200         80           75
 
 
First Bedroom Second Bedroom Third Bedroom Fourth Bedroom
120           –            –           –
120           110            –           –
120           110            90            –
120           110            90            90
 
(Prior Code, § 753.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
R4 MIXED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.145 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this District is to provide transition from existing
residential uses into those business/commercial uses which naturally occur
along highways or highly travelled roads.
(Prior Code, § 754.01)
§ 152.146 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings, structures, and uses of parcels, lots, buildings,
and structures are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, as specified in §
152.101(A);
   (B)   Two-family dwellings;
   (C)   A sign in accordance with the requirements specified in §
152.342;
   (D)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283; and
   (E)   Home occupations, as prescribed in §
152.101(D).
(Prior Code, § 754.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.147 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following buildings and structures and uses of parcels, lots, and
structures may be allowed in this District subject to obtaining a conditional
use permit as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303:
   (A)   Any permitted use in the CS Community Service Commercial or HS Highway
Commercial Districts is allowed without condition subject to meeting the
requirements for submission of a site plan and meeting the lot requirements
within that commercial district;
   (B)   Any conditional use in the CS Community Service Commercial or HS
Highway Service Districts, subject to meeting the specific conditions for that
use as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303 and meeting the lot regulations within that commercial district;
   (C)   Any conditional use in the R2 Medium Density Residential District,
subject to meeting the specific conditions for that use as provided for in §§
152.270 through
152.303 and meeting the lot regulations within that district;
   (D)   Business offices;
(Prior Code, § 754.03)
   (E)   Commercial storage rental facilities, provided all stored items,
equipment, products, and material are enclosed within a building and are to a
considerable extent clean and free from any dangerous nuisances or hazardous or
objectionable odors; and
   (F)   Commercial repair facilities for automobiles and other light motor
vehicle, and used for general repair, servicing, rebuilding, or reconditioning
of motor vehicles and their component parts, but not including collision
services such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair, painting, and
undercoating.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.148 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For residential uses, those lot requirements as specified in the R2
District;
   (B)   For commercial uses, those lot requirements as specified in the CS
District; and
   (C)   For manufactured homes, see §
152.103.
(Prior Code, § 754.04)
MHP MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
§ 152.160 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage the appropriate location and
suitable development of mobile home parks that adheres to the standards of the
State Mobile Home Commission Rules for the development.
(Prior Code, § 755.01)
§ 152.161 PERMITTED USE.
   The only permitted use in this District is the development of a mobile home
park.
(Prior Code, § 755.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.162 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum site size for the development of a mobile home park shall be
five acres.
(Prior Code, § 755.03)
§ 152.163 REGULATIONS.
   Regulations governing manufactured home installation and park safety,
licensing, construction, maintenance, and business practices shall conform to
Parts 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 of the Mobile Home Commission Rules as amended.
(Prior Code, § 755.04)
B BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 152.175 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the B Business District is to allow for commercial uses in an
established central business district, as well as residential uses which are
deemed compatible with the development.
(Prior Code, § 756.01)
§ 152.176 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures, are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Business offices;
   (B)   Hotels;
   (C)   Public and semi-public buildings;
   (D)   Single-family residences on the second or third story;
   (E)   All permitted uses allowed in §
152.191(A) through (E);
   (F)   A sign in accordance with the regulations specified in §
152.343; and
   (G)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283.
(Prior Code, § 756.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.177 CONDITIONAL USE.
   Warehousing and storage facilities, the uses of which are wholly incidental
to that of an established business within the Business District, but not
physically located on the same parcel of land.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 11-18-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.178 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in this District:
   (A)   Lot area. A minimum of 3,000 square feet;
   (B)   Lot width. A minimum of 30 feet;
   (C)   Yard setback requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. A minimum of ten feet;
      (2)   Side yard. None; and
      (3)   Rear yard. None.
   (D)   Height of buildings and other structures. A maximum of 45 feet.
(Prior Code, § 756.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
CS COMMUNITY SERVICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.190 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this District to provide for convenient retail and
personal service establishments which cater to the day to day needs of families
residing within immediately accessible neighborhoods. To this end, certain uses
are excluded which would function more effectively in other districts and which
would interfere with the uses permitted in this District. It is the basic
intent of this District to encourage future commercial development within the
planned centers rather than in scattered locations throughout the residential
areas, but also to provide for those necessary services which are most
appropriately and conveniently located in close proximity to residential
neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 757.01)
§ 152.191 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures, are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Clothing and apparel services, including laundry pickup, automatic
laundry, dressmaking, millinery, tailor shops, and shoe repair shops;
   (B)   Food services, including grocery, meat markets, bakeries, restaurants,
delicatessens and fruit markets, ice-o-mats, and similar self serve units, but
not including any businesses of a drive-in nature;
   (C)   Personal services, including barber shops and beauty salons, medical
and dental clinics, music studios, banks, and savings and loan associations;
   (D)   Retail services, including drug stores, hardware, gift shops, and dry
goods and notions stores;
   (E)   A sign in accordance with the regulations specified in §
152.343;
   (F)   An accessory use, building, or structure; and
   (G)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283.
(Prior Code, § 757.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.192 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures, are permitted subject to obtaining a conditional use
permit as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303:
   (A)   Animal hospitals or clinics;
   (B)   Drive-in, retail, and service establishments, excluding drive-in
amusement establishments;
   (C)   Gasoline service stations;
   (D)   Planned neighborhood shopping centers;
   (E)   Temporary buildings or trailer offices;
   (F)   An accessory use, building, or structure; and
   (G)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283.
(Prior Code, § 757.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.193 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in a CS Community Service Commercial
District.
   (A)   Lot area. No building or structure shall be established on any lot
less than one acre in area except where a lot is served with a public water
supply system and a public sanitary sewerage system, in which case there shall
be provided a minimum lot area of 10,000 square feet except where included in a
neighborhood planned shopping center of three or more stores.
   (B)   Lot width. The minimum lot width for lots served with a central water
supply system and a central sanitary sewerage system shall be 80 feet. Where a
lot is not so served, the minimum lot width shall be 150 feet.
   (C)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 25%.
   (D)   Yard and setback requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 35 feet;
      (2)   Side yard. Least width of either side yard shall not be less than
20 feet, except in the case of a corner lot or parcel, where the side yard on
the road or street side shall not be less than 35 feet;
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 35 feet; and
      (4)   Application. The above yard requirements shall apply to every lot,
building, or structure.
   (E)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed a height of 45 feet.
   (F)   Transition strip.
      (1)   On every lot in this District which abuts a lot in a residential
district there shall be provided a transition strip. The transition strip shall
not be less than 15 feet in width, shall be proved along every lot line, except
at front lot lines which abut a lot in a residential district, shall not be
included as part of the yard required around a building or structure, and shall
be improved, when the lot in this District is improved, with an opaque fence,
wall, or hedge not less than five feet in height maintained in good condition.
      (2)   A use or structure on any lot in this District fronting a public
road, street, or way shall provide in addition to and as an integral part of
any site development, on the front yard, a landscaped strip of land 20 feet or
more in depth; the landscaped strip to be defined and designed to provide
access to the lot and separate off-street parking areas from the public right-
of-way.
   (G)   Off-street parking. Off-street is as required in §
152.086.
(Prior Code, § 757.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
HS HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.205 PURPOSE.
   This District is composed of those areas of the village whose principal use
is or ought to be retail and service business activities which serve or are
meant to serve the motoring public. This District has been located along major
regional highways or at intersections of highways and expressways, to permit
the development of these business activities, to protect adjacent agricultural,
residential, and industrial areas against the encroachment of incompatible
uses, and to lessen the congestion on and serve the persons traveling on major
through highways. To these ends, certain uses are excluded which would function
more effectively in other districts and which would interfere with the
operation of the uses permitted in this District.
(Prior Code, § 758.01)
§ 152.206 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Souvenir and gift shops, public information booths;
   (B)   Gasoline service stations, including minor repair service, provided
that all the requirements of this chapter are met;
   (C)   Motels and hotels;
   (D)   Drive-in retail and service establishments, excluding drive-in
amusement establishments;
   (E)   A sign in accordance with the regulations specified in §
152.343;
   (F)   Accessory use, building, or structure;
   (G)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283; and
   (H)   Sporting goods sales and service.
(Prior Code, § 758.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.207 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures, are permitted subject to obtaining a conditional use
permit as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303:
   (A)   New and used automobile sales and service;
   (B)   Places of amusement, entertainment, or recreation such as dance halls,
bowling lanes, establishments serving alcoholic beverages, miniature golf,
commercial swimming pools, and drive-in theaters; and
   (C)   Temporary buildings or trailer offices.
(Prior Code, § 758.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.208 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in an HS Highway Commercial District:
   (A)   Lot area. No building or structure shall be established on any lot
less than one acre in area, except where a lot is served with a public water
supply system and a public sanitary sewerage system, in which case there shall
be a minimum lot area of 10,000 square feet;
   (B)   Lot width. The minimum lot width for lots served with a central water
supply system and a central sanitary sewerage system shall be 80 feet. Where a
lot is not so served, the minimum lot width shall be 150 feet;
   (C)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 25%;
   (D)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 35 feet;
      (2)   Side yard. Least width of either side yard shall not be less than
20 feet, except in the case of a corner lot or parcel, where the side yard on
the road or street side shall not be less than 35 feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 20 feet.
   (E)   Transition strip. See §
152.193;
   (F)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed a height of 35 feet; and
   (G)   Off-street parking. As required in §
152.086.
(Prior Code, § 758.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.220 PURPOSE.
   This District is composed of those areas of the village whose principal use
is or ought to be light manufacturing and other limited industrial uses. These
uses generate a minimum of noise, glare, odor, dust, vibration, air and water
pollutants, and other harmful or obnoxious matter. This District has been
located within the village to permit the development of these industrial uses,
to protect adjacent agricultural, residential, and commercial areas against the
encroachment of incompatible uses, and to lessen congestion on public street
and highways. To these ends, certain uses are excluded which would function
more effectively in other districts and which would interfere with the
operation of the uses permitted in this District.
(Prior Code, § 759.01)
§ 152.221 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures, are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Research-oriented and light industrial park uses, banks;
   (B)   The manufacturing, compounding process, or treatment of the products
as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, dairy products, food products, drugs,
perfumes, pharmaceutical toiletries, and frozen food lockers;
   (C)   Assembly of merchandise such as electrical appliances, electronic or
precision instruments and articles of similar nature;
   (D)   Packaging of previously prepared materials, but not including the
bailing of discards, old iron or other metal, wood, lumber, glass, paper, rags,
cloth, or other similar materials;
   (E)   Printing, lithographic, blueprinting, and similar uses;
   (F)   Wholesale warehousing and material distribution centers, provided all
products and materials are enclosed within a building;
   (G)   Light manufacturing industrial use which by nature of the materials,
equipment, and process utilized are to a considerable extent clean, quiet, and
free from any objectionable or dangerous nuisance or hazard including any of
the following goods or materials: drugs, jewelry, musical instruments, sporting
goods, glass products, small household appliances, electronic products, printed
matter, baked and dairy products, advertising displays, tents and awnings,
brushes and brooms, cameras and photographic equipment and supplies, wearing
apparel, leather products and luggage but not including tanning products from
the finished materials as plastic, bone, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, paper,
glass, hair, horn, rubber, shell, or yarn;
   (H)   Research and testing facilities;
   (I)   An accessory use, building, or structure;
   (J)   A sign in accordance with the regulations specified in §
152.343;
   (K)   Essential service structures and buildings; and
   (L)   Storage facilities, provided all stored items/materials are enclosed
within a structure.
(Prior Code, § 759.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.222 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and use of parcels, lots, buildings,
and structures, are permitted subject to obtaining a conditional use permit as
provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303:
   (A)   Restaurants and cafeteria facilities for employees;
   (B)   Bus, truck, taxi, and rail terminals;
   (C)   Open air display areas for the sale of manufactured products, such as
or similar to garden furniture, earthware, hardware items and nursery stock, or
the rental of manufactured products or equipment, small tools, pneumatic tired
two- and four-wheeled utility trailers, such as household equipment, pneumatic
transit cement mixers, wheelbarrows, rollers and similar products or equipment;
   (D)   Heliports;
   (E)   Gasoline service stations; and
   (F)   Temporary buildings or trailer offices.
(Prior Code, § 759.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.223 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to an LI Light Industrial District:
   (A)   Lot area. No building or structure shall be established on any lot
less than one acre in area, except where a lot is served with a central water
supply system and a central sanitary sewerage system, in which case there shall
be a provided a minimum lot area of 20,000 square feet;
   (B)   Lot width. The minimum lot width for lots served with a public water
supply system and a public sanitary sewerage system shall be 80 feet. Where a
lot is not so served, the minimum lot width shall be 150 feet;
   (C)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 25%;
   (D)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 85 feet;
      (2)   Side yard. Least width of either side yard shall not be less than
20 feet, except in the case of a corner lot or parcel, where the side yard on
the road or street side shall not be less than 35 feet;
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 35 feet; and
      (4)   Application. The above requirements shall apply to every lot,
building, or structure.
   (E)   Height. Except as is otherwise provided in this chapter, no building
or structure should exceed a height of 45 feet;
   (F)   Off-street parking. As required in §
152.086; and
   (G)   Minimum floor area. The minimum floor area requirement per building is
1,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 759.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
HI HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.235 PURPOSE.
   This District is designed to provide the location and space for all manner
of industrial uses, wholesale, commercial, and industrial storage facilities.
It is the purpose of these regulations to permit the development of certain
functions; to protect the abutting residential and commercial properties from
incompatible industrial activities; to restrict the intrusion of non-related
uses such as residential, retail business, and commercial; and to encourage the
discontinuance of uses presently existing in the district, which are
nonconforming by virtue of the type of use. To these ends, certain uses are
excluded which would function more effectively in other districts and which
would interfere with the operation of the uses permitted in this District.
(Prior Code, § 760.01)
§ 152.236 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings, structures, and uses of parcels, lots, buildings,
and structures are permitted in this District:
   (A)   All permitted uses allowed in the LI Light Industrial District, as
provided in §
152.221;
   (B)   Contractor's establishments;
   (C)   Manufacturing;
   (D)   Trucking and cartage facilities, truck and industrial equipments
storage yards, repairing and washing equipment and yards;
   (E)   Manufacturing product warehousing, exchange and storage centers and
yards;
   (F)   Open industrial uses or industrial products or materials storage,
provided that any activity in which products or material being processed or
stored are located, transported, or treated outside of a building and are not
within enclosed apparatus vessels, or conduits, the use shall be provided with
an opaque permanently maintained wall or fence, no lower than the subject use
or storage, and constructed to provide firm anchoring of fence posts to
concrete set below the frost line; if a wall is provided, its foundations
likewise shall extend below the frost line;
   (G)   Wholesale businesses, including warehouse and storage, commercial
laundries, dry cleaning establishments, ice and cold storage plants, lumber,
fuel and feed yards, automobile repair garages, construction and farm equipment
sales and contractor’s equipment yards;
   (H)   An accessory use, building, or structure; and
   (I)   A sign in accordance with the regulations specified in §
152.343.
(Prior Code, § 760.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.237 CONDITIONAL USE.
   Any industrial use not specified in §
152.236 shall be considered a conditional use and subject to obtaining a
conditional use permit, as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303.
(Prior Code, § 760.03)
§ 152.238 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in an HI Heavy Industrial District:
   (A)   Lot area. No building or structure shall be established on any lot
less than five acres in area;
   (B)   Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 200 feet;
   (C)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 25%;
   (D)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 85 feet;
      (2)   Side yard. Least width of either side yard shall not be less than
50 feet, except in the case of a corner lot, where the side yard or the road or
the street side shall not be less than 60 feet; and
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 50 feet.
   (E)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed a height of 50 feet; and
   (F)   Off-street parking. As required in §
152.086.
(Prior Code, § 760.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
OAC OPEN SPACE, AGRICULTURAL, AND WATERBODY CONSERVATION DISTRICT
§ 152.250 PURPOSE.
   It is recognized by this chapter that the principal use of certain open
areas within the village is and ought to be the development, management, and
utilization of the natural resources base possessed by this area. In order that
this value may be maintained and this use encouraged, this chapter has
established, based upon a well considered plan, a zoning district design to
regulate the location of buildings and structures and the use of parcels and
lots in order to protect the natural resources, natural habitats of wildlife,
waterways and waterbodies, agricultural capabilities, public and private
recreation areas, and the public health, safety, and welfare, by reducing the
hardships and burdens imposed upon the people of the village by the wanton
destruction of resources, the improper and wasteful use of open land, wooded
areas and the periodic flooding and overflow of creeks and streams. In
addition, this District will help protect human life, prevent or minimize
material losses, and reduce the cost to the public of rescue and relief efforts
occasioned by unwise occupancy or construction of buildings in areas subject to
periodic inundation, the areas being shown as flood plain by soil types as
compiled by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.
(Prior Code, § 761.01)
§ 152.251 PERMITTED USE.
   The following buildings and structures and uses of parcels, lots, buildings,
and structures are permitted in this District:
   (A)   Public and private conservation areas for the development, protection,
and conservation of open space, watersheds, water, soil, forest, and wildlife
resources;
   (B)   General and specialized farming and agricultural activities including
the raising or growing of crops, products, and foodstuffs, and provided that
any lot that is kept as idle crop land shall be so treated as to prevent soil
erosion by wind or water;
   (C)   The raising or growing of plants, trees, shrubs, and nursery stock;
   (D)   Drives and parking areas;
   (E)   A sign in accordance with the regulations specified in §
152.341;
   (F)   Essential service structures, except as provided in §
152.283;
   (G)   Single-family dwellings, as specified in §
152.101(A); and
   (H)   Home occupations, as prescribed in §
152.101(D).
(Prior Code, § 761.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.252 CONDITIONAL USE.
   The following buildings and structures, and uses of parcels, lots,
buildings, and structures, are permitted in this District subject to obtaining
a conditional use permit as provided in §§
152.270 through
152.303:
   (A)   Public or private forest preserves, game refuges, golf courses, parks,
camping grounds, playgrounds or other recreation purpose;
   (B)   The growing, stripping, and removal of sod, provided that the lot or
portion thereof shall be seeded after stripping by fall of the same year in
which it was stripped so as to reduce the actual or potential erosion of soil
by water or wind;
   (C)   The removal of soil, sand, gravel, and other materials;
   (D)   Country clubhouses, swimming pools, bath houses, and the sale of food,
beverages, and recreation equipment which is incidental and accessory to a
recreational use;
   (E)   Landfills;
   (F)   All buildings and structures accessory and incidental to permitted
uses in this District; and
   (G)   Cellular communications towers, including antennas.
(Prior Code, § 761.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.253 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in an OAC Open Space, Agricultural,
and Waterbody Conservation District:
   (A)   Lot area. No building or structure shall be established on any lot
less than one and one-half acres in area;
   (B)   Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 200 feet;
   (C)   Lot coverage. The maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 10%;
   (D)   Yard and setback requirements.
      (1)   Front yard. Not less than 60 feet from the right-of-way line;
      (2)   Side yard. Least width of either side yard shall not be less than
30 feet, except in the case of a corner lot where the side yard on the road or
street side shall not be less than 60 feet;
      (3)   Rear yard. Not less than 50 feet; and
      (4)   Application. The above requirements shall apply to every lot,
building, or structure.
   (E)   Height. No building or structure shall exceed three stories or 40
feet;
   (F)   Off-street parking. Required off-street parking as required in §
152.086;
   (G)   Manufactured homes. See §
152.103(H); and
   (H)   Preservation of environmental quality. As required in §§
152.070 through
152.087, and in a flood plain as indicated by soil types, the construction or
location of bridges, outdoor equipment, bleachers, and similar outdoor
equipment or appurtenances, storage of materials and equipment is prohibited
unless the elements would not cause any significant obstruction to the flow or
reduction in the impoundment capacity of the flood plain.
(Prior Code, § 761.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 152.270 PURPOSE.
   The formulation and enactment of this chapter is based upon the division of
the village into districts, each of which are permitted specified uses which
are mutually compatible. In addition to permitted compatible uses, however, it
is recognized that there are certain other uses which may be necessary or
desirable to allow in certain locations in certain districts, but which on
account of their actual or potential impact on neighboring uses or public
facilities, need to be carefully regulated with respect to their location for
the protection of the village. Such uses, on account of their peculiar
location, need or the nature of the service offered, may have to be established
in a district in which they cannot be reasonably allowed as a permitted use.
(Prior Code, § 750.01) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.271 AUTHORITY TO GRANT PERMITS.
   The Village Council with recommendations from the Village Planning
Commission shall have the authority to grant conditional use permits, subject
to such conditions of design and operation, safeguards and time limitations as
it may determine for all conditional uses specified in the various district
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 750.02) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.272 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Application for any conditional use permit permissible under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be made by the owner of the property to the
Village Manager, who shall refer it for review and recommendations to the
Zoning Administrator. The application shall contain the applicant’s name,
address in full, telephone number, a statement that the applicant is the owner
involved and where applicable, appointing a person to act on the owner’s behalf
at any meetings with village officials relative to the application, the address
of the property involved, property ID number, site plan or sketch plan, proof
of any required federal, state and county licenses, other required data,
exhibits and information as may be deemed necessary by the Planning Commission,
and the deposit of a non-refundable fee in accordance with the requirements of
division (B), below.
   (B)   After processing the application as prescribed in division (A), above,
the Zoning Administrator shall forward his or her recommendations to the
Planning Commission, who shall conduct a site plan review that conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 750.03) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.273 POSTING OF PROPERTY AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   If the site plan is approved by the Planning Commission, and the
application for a the conditional use permit, requires a decision on
discretionary grounds, one notice that an application for conditional use
permit has been received shall be published in a newspaper which circulates in
the village, and sent by mail or personal delivery to the owners of property
for which approval is being considered, to all persons to whom real property is
assessed within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in question, and to
the occupants of all structures within 300 feet. The notice shalt be given not
less than five, nor more than 15 days before the date the application will be
considered. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term "occupant" may
be used in making notification. Notification need not be given to more than one
occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains more than one
dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses, or organizations, then one occupant of each unit or
spatial area shall receive a notice. In the case of a single structure
containing more than four dwelling units or other distinct spatial area owned
or leased by different individuals, partnerships, businesses, or organizations,
notice may be given to the manager or owner of the structure who shall be
requested to post the notice at the primary entrance to the structure.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the nature of the application for the conditional use
permit;
      (2)   Indicate the property which is the subject of the application for
the conditional use permit;
      (3)   State when and where the application for the conditional use permit
will be considered;
      (4)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the application; and
      (5)   Indicate that a public hearing on the application for the
conditional use permit may be requested by any property owner or the occupant
of any structure located within 300 feet of the boundary of the property being
considered for a conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 750.04) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.274 FINDINGS BY THE VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Village Planning Commission, following the public hearing called for
above, shall review the particular circumstances and facts of each application,
shall record adequate data, information and evidence, based upon the data,
exhibits and information supplied by the applicant, with respect to each item
set forth in the general standards set forth in §
152.275 of this subchapter and the specific standards for those uses listed in
§
152.279. The Planning Commission shall submit its report thereof to the Village
Council together with its recommendation of the issuance or denial of a
conditional use permit and if a recommendation of the issuance of a conditional
use permit is made, the specific terms and conditions which must be complied
with by the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 750.05) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.275 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ALL CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   No conditional use permit shall be issued unless, based upon the report
supplied by the Planning Commission, the Village Council determines that:
   (A)   The parcel will, according to the plans and specifications, data,
exhibits and information supplied to the Planning Commission by the applicant,
meet the specific requirements and regulations, as set forth in this
subchapter, applicable to the conditional use in the zoning district in which
the use is to be located and shall be lawful under all federal, state and local
laws, ordinances and regulations applicable thereto.
   (B)   The property will be served adequately by essential public facilities
and services, such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures and refuse disposal, or that the persons who will own or operate the
property shall be able to provide any such service on a non-public basis. In
this regard, the plans and specifications for which a conditional use permit
has been applied may be submitted by the Village Planning Commission to the
local police and fire department and to the County Health Department with a
request for a written determination that the building will comply with
applicable village, state and federal laws, ordinances and regulations
applicable thereto.
   (C)   The parcel will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighborhood uses.
   (D)   The property will not create excessive additional requirements at
public cost for public facilities and services.
   (E)   The property will be harmonious with and in accordance with the
general objectives or with any specific objectives of the Village Master Plan
then in effect.
   (F)   The property will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so
as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that the conditional use will not change
the essential character of the general vicinity.
   (G)   The property will be a substantial improvement to property in the
immediate vicinity and to the community as a whole.
   (H)   The property will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials,
and equipment and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any
person, property, or the general welfare by reason of excessive traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare or odors.
(Prior Code, § 750.06) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.276 COMPLIANCE BOND.
   In issuing a conditional use permit, the Village Council may require a
surety or cash bond to be furnished by the owner to insure compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter applicable thereto and with the specific terms,
conditions or limitations of the conditional use permit issued by the Village
Council. The amount of the bond shall be determined by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 750.07) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.277 CONDITIONS, LIMITATIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   The Village Planning Commission may recommend, and the Village Council may
impose, such additional conditions, limitations, requirements and safeguards
deemed necessary for the protection of the general welfare of the village and
for the protection of the individual property owners in the vicinity and to
insure that the intent and objectives of this subchapter will be observed.
(Prior Code, § 750.08) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.278 CONTINUED VALIDITY OF PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The issuance of a conditional use permit by the Village Council shall
entitle the owner to continue to operate the conditional use so long as he or
she remains in compliance with the terms and conditions, limitations,
requirements, and safeguards set forth in the conditional use permit, and if
such a conditional use permit is granted, does expressly grant to the village,
for the enforcement of this subchapter, the power and authority to enter upon
the premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of inspection and
enforcement of the terms of this subchapter or of the terms of the conditional
use permit.
   (B)   In the event the owner or occupant of the property for which a
conditional use permit has been issued, violates any provision of this
subchapter or any term, condition, limitation, regulation or safeguard
contained in the conditional use permit, the conditional use permit may be
revoked and become null and void and the owner or occupant shall be deemed to
be in violation of this subchapter. In addition to all other remedies provided
herein, in the event that such conditional use permit shall become null and
void, the compliance bond, if any, given by the owner under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be forfeited.
(Prior Code, § 750.09) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.279 INDEX TO CONDITIONAL USES; APPLICABILITY TO DISTRICTS.
   In addition to the general standards outlined in §
152.275, each conditional use shall comply with the sign regulations
established within §§
152.340 through
152.346 and the parking regulations established in §§
152.086 and
152.087. For each use identified below, there shall be additional specific
standards as required in the section pertaining to that use.
Conditional Use District(s) Section
Conditional Use                                District(s)              Section
Junk yards                                     LI, H1                   152.280
Gasoline sales and convenience centers         R4c, CS, LI              152.281
Planned unit developments                      R1, R2. R3, R4r, R4c, CS 152.282
Essential service buildings                    ALL DISTRICTS            152.283
Agri-business                                  LI, CS, OAC              152.284
Community facilities (public or non-profit)    R1, R2, R4r, R4c         152.285
Telecommunications towers                      OAC                      152.286
Animal hospitals, clinics, and commercial      R1, CS, OAC              152.287
kennels
Mini-storage warehouse facilities              HI, LI, CS               152.288
Drive-in or drive-through retail service       LI, CS, R4c              152.289
establishments
New and used vehicles, trailer sales           LI, CS, R4c              152.290
Temporary dwellings                            R1, R2, R4r              152.291
Adult entertainment                            LI                       152.292
Hospitals                                      R1, R2, R4c              152.293
Homes for the elderly and retired              R1, R2, R3, R4r          152.294
Group day-care homes                           R1, R2, R3, R4r          152.295
Child care centers                             R1, R2, R3, R4r          152.296
Adult day-care homes                           R1, R2, R3, R4r          152.297
Adult day-care centers                         R1, R2, R3, R4r          152.298
Warehousing and storage facilities for         B, CS, LI, HI            152.299
established retail businesses
Commercial storage rental facilities           LI, HI, R4c, CS          152.300
Commercial repair facilities for automobiles   LI, HI                   152.301
and other light motor vehicles, general repair
Commercial repair facilities for automobiles   LI, CS, R4c              152.302
and other light motor vehicles, limited repair
Places of amusement and recreation             R4c                      152.303
 
(Prior Code, § 750.10) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.280 JUNK YARDS.
   In addition to and as an integral part of development, the following
provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Junk yards shall be established and maintained in accordance with
applicable State of Michigan Statutes.
   (B)   (1)   It is recognized that the location in the open of such materials
included in this chapter’s definition of junk yard will cause the reduction of
the value of adjoining property. To the end that the character of the district
shall be maintained and property values conserved, an opaque fence or wall at
least seven feet in height, and not less in height than the materials located
on the lot on which a junk yard shall be operated, shall be located on the lot
no closer to the lot lines than the yard requirements for buildings permitted
in this district. All gates, doors and access ways though the fence or wall
shall be of solid, un-pierced material. In no event shall any materials
included in this chapter’s definition of junk yard be located on the lot on
which a junk yard shall be operated in the area between the lines of the lot
and the opaque fence or wall located on the lot.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing requirements, the Planning Commission
may require a greenbelt complying with the provisions of §
152.075.
   (C)   All traffic ingress or egress shall be on major streets, and there
shall be not more than one entrance way to the lot on which a junk yard shall
be operated from each public road which the lot abuts.
   (D)   On the lot on which a junk yard shall be operated, all roads,
driveways, parking lots, and loading and unloading areas within any yard shall
be paved, or chemically treated so as to limit the nuisance caused by windborne
dust onto adjoining lots and public roads.
(Prior Code, § 750.11) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.281 GASOLINE SALES AND CONVENIENCE CENTERS.
   Any gasoline sales and convenience center in any district shall conform at
least to the following regulations. Where the setback and lot coverage
regulations for any district in which a gasoline sales and convenience center
is located are more restrictive than the regulations contained hereinafter, all
gasoline sales and convenience centers shall conform to the more restrictive
dimensional requirements.
   (A)   General. No part of the parcel shall be used for the storage of
dismantled vehicles or junk.
   (B)   Frontage and area. The parcel shall have a minimum frontage of 120
feet and a minimum area of 12,000 square feet.
   (C)   Setback. Every structure shall have a minimum setback from the street
right-of-way of 35 feet and a minimum setback from all property lines of 25
feet. A greenbelt area in accordance with the regulations specified in §
152.075 may be required by the Village Council.
   (D)   Construction standards. The facility shall be constructed to conform
to the following standards:
      (1)   Suitable separation shall be made between the pedestrian sidewalk
and vehicular parking or moving area with the use of appropriate bumpers, wheel
guards or traffic islands. Where the portion of the property used for vehicular
traffic abuts a street, that portion shall be separated from the street line by
a curb at least six inches high.
      (2)   The entire area used for vehicle ingress, egress, fueling, service,
and customer parking shall be paved, except for such unpaved area as is
landscaped and protected from vehicle use by a low barrier.
      (3)   Hydraulic hoist, lubricating, greasing, washing and repair
equipment shall be entirely within a building. Tire and battery service and
minor automobile repairs may be carried on outside of the building.
      (4)   The maximum widths of all driveways at the sidewalk shall be no
more than 30 feet.
      (5)   The minimum angle of driveway intersection with the street from the
curb line to lot line shall be no less than 60 degrees.
      (6)   The minimum distance between curb cuts shall be no less than 40
feet.
   (E)   Lighting. All lighting shall be accomplished in a manner such that no
illumination source causes nuisance to adjacent properties.
   (F)   Off-street parking. Shall conform to the regulations specified in §
152.086.
   (G)   Signs. Shall conform to the regulations specified in §
152.343.
(Prior Code, § 750.12) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.282 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   In addition to the planned unit development procedures contained in §§
152.130 through
152.134 and the standards contained in §§
152.145 through
152.148, the following specific conditions and requirements shall apply to the
following planned unit developments.
   (A)   Planned unit residential developments.
      (1)   Shall occupy a site of not less than five acres.
      (2)   The maximum number of dwelling units permitted shall be determined
by dividing the net development area by the minimum lot area per dwelling unit
required by the underlying district or districts in which the planned unit
residential development site is located. Net development area is determined by
subtracting water, muck, and peat areas, and areas set aside for churches,
schools and similar facilities and the area proposed for streets from the gross
development area.
      (3)   The area of land set aside for common land, open space, or
recreation, except as above indicated, shall be included as a part of the net
development area.
   (B)   Planned neighborhood shopping centers. Shall occupy a site of not less
than three acres.
   (C)   Planned community and regional shopping centers. Shall occupy a site
of not less than ten acres.
(Prior Code, § 750.13) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.283 ESSENTIAL SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   Essential service buildings, and other major essential service installations
(which may or may not involve buildings) including, without limitation,
structures and facilities such as electric substations and gas regulator
stations and substations, may be allowed as a conditional use provided that the
Planning Commission shall give consideration to the architecture, landscaping,
setbacks, enclosures and other features of the building or installation and may
impose reasonable conditions as deemed necessary to protect the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 750.14) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.284 AGRI-BUSINESS.
   (A)   An agri-business and buildings, structures, lots, parcels, or parts
thereof which provide services, goods, storage, transportation or other
activities directly related to the production of agricultural commodities may
be permitted as a conditional use.
   (B)   An agri-business may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Farm machinery, sales, service, rental and repair;
      (2)   Grain elevators for storage, drying and sales;
      (3)   Bulk feed and fertilizer outlets and distribution centers;
      (4)   Grain and livestock trucking and cartage facilities; and/or
      (5)   Dairy products, production and processing operations.
(Prior Code, § 750.15) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.285 COMMUNITY FACILITIES, PUBLIC OR NON-PROFIT.
   (A)   Churches, public buildings, public, parochial and private nonprofit
schools and colleges (not operated as commercial enterprises), public swimming
pools and public parks. All buildings shall be located at least 50 feet from
any adjoining lot line.
   (B)   Publicly-owned athletic grounds and golf courses, and athletic
grounds, country clubs and golf courses owned by non-profit entities (not
operated as commercial enterprises). The use shall be conducted on property of
at least ten acres and all buildings shall be located at least 50 feet from any
adjoining lot line.
(Prior Code, § 750.16) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.286 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS; STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Regulation of commercial wireless communication service
towers is necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare while
meeting the communications needs of the public. The intent of this section is
to minimize adverse visual effects of towers and avoid damage to adjacent
properties, while adequately serving the community.
   (B)   Towers permitted in zoning districts. Towers are permitted by right
within the (OAC)-open space and waterbody districts. All towers shall be
subject to the following general standards for approval:
      (1)   In order to contain falling ice or debris from tower failure on
site, and to minimize conflict with adjacent properties, the base of a
freestanding (lattice or monopole) or guy-wired (lattice) tower shall be set
back 150% of the height of the tower from any property line or road right-of-
way as measured from the tower base.
      (2)   For leased sites, a legally described parcel shall be established
which provides suitable location and size to meet the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (3)   The maximum tower height shall be 300 feet as measured from the
ground elevation.
      (4)   The tower base shall be enclosed by a security fence, consisting of
a six foot tall chain link fence topped with three strands of barbed wire or an
eight foot tall chain link fence. All towers shall be equipped with an anti-
climbing device.
      (5)   A six foot tall landscape screen is required to screen around the
exterior perimeter of the fenced area.
      (6)   The use of guy wires is strictly prohibited unless approved by the
Planning Commission. Approval shall be based upon the wire anchors for guyed
towers being set back 75 feet from all property lines, that they be located on
the same parcel as the tower and that these provisions are subject to approval
of the site plan.
   (C)   Lighting. Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and
shall not display strobe lights unless specifically required by the Federal
Aviation Administration or other federal or state authority for a particular
tower. If lighting is required, a dual lighting system shall be employed to
minimize the impact at night.
   (D)   Signs. The use of any portion of a tower for signs other than warning
or equipment information is prohibited.
   (E)   Application requirements. Application must be made for a building
permit, and the following information must be submitted:
      (1)   (a)   A site plan of the proposed tower location showing all
existing and proposed features of the site. This shall identify all buildings
which are on the subject property as well as any buildings and residences on
adjacent properties within 350 feet of the tower base.
         (b)   The site plan shall also identify the location of the
maintenance buildings, which are to be located within the secured fence area,
including the pads needed to support such facilities for any future carrier
needs. The site plan shall also indicate the height of the proposed tower above
grade, and any other improvements.
      (2)   Documentation of the purpose of the tower, the number and type of
joint users to be served at the site, Federal Aviation Administration approval
and an engineer's certification of structural and electrical safety. The
village may require that any information that is submitted be certified by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (3)   A description of the appearance and color of the tower, with the
intent to camouflage the tower to an extent possible to reduce the visual
impacts of the tower.
   (F)   Location and separation requirements. All commercial wireless
telecommunications towers erected, constructed or located within Homer Village
shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   A new commercial wireless telecommunications tower shall not be
approved unless the telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower
cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or similar device
within the village. The applicant must provide information related to their
investigation of the potential for co-location on all other towers within the
village and within a one-mile area surrounding the village. This provision may
be waived should the applicant produce and justify data related to the tower's
or building's structural inadequacy, negative impact from other communications
devices or services, insufficient height or other verifiable reason.
      (2)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunications service tower
shall be designed to accommodate both the applicant's equipment and that of at
least two other users. Any developer of a tower site must have a firm
commitment (lease agreement) from the property owner and from at least one
carrier to locate on the tower at the time of the application.
   (G)   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers. Abandoned or unused
towers or portions of towers and associated facilities shall be removed within
12 months of the cessation of operations at the site unless a time extension is
approved by the Village Council. A copy of the relevant documents (including,
but not limited to, the signed lease, deed or land contract restrictions which
requires the applicant to remove the tower and associated facilities upon
cessation of the operations) shall be submitted at the time of application. In
the event that a tower is not removed within 12 months of the cessation of
operations at a site, the tower and associated facilities shall be removed by
the village and the costs of removal assessed against the real property. The
Village Clerk shall be notified of any change in the status of the tower,
including a change in ownership, terms of the lease or removal of a carrier co-
locating on that tower.
   (H)   Antennas or towers may be located on property owned, leased, or
otherwise controlled by the village provided a license or lease authorizing
such antenna or tower has been approved by the Village Council.
(Prior Code, § 750.17) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.287 ANIMAL HOSPITALS, CLINICS AND COMMERCIAL KENNELS.
   (A)   An application to construct a commercial kennel for the purpose of
boarding five or more domesticated animals shall require any necessary permits
and approvals from the county and the State of Michigan before an application
for a conditional use permit may be considered.
   (B)   Commercial kennels shall be subject to the following specific
conditions:
      (1)   There shall exist a 100-foot setback from any adjacent property
line for any exterior area used for boarding of animals or animal exercise
(such as a dog run).
      (2)   Any buildings constructed for interior boarding shall be
soundproofed and located no closer than 50 feet to any adjoining property line.
      (3)   Perimeter landscaping and/or fencing shall be utilized to screen
those areas from such adjacent property.
(Prior Code, § 750.18) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.288 MINI-STORAGE WAREHOUSE FACILITIES.
   Mini-storage warehouse facilities shall be subject to the following specific
conditions:
   (A)   The entire site perimeter shall be secured with a fence at least six
feet in height. Where the site abuts a residential zone, there shall be
screening through use of greenbelt buffers meeting the requirements in §
152.075 or an opaque fence.
   (B)   Drive aisles and parking areas shall be paved and properly drain, with
storm water managed on site. There shall be no outside storage permitted.
   (C)   Adequate lighting shall be installed in a manner to provide for
required security, with no stray illumination onto any adjoining properties. No
use of storage facilities shall be allowed for retail purposes.
(Prior Code, § 750.19) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.289 DRIVE-IN OR DRIVE-THROUGH RETAIL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Drive-in or drive-through retail establishments shall be subject to the
following conditions:
   (A)   Where the use is proposed adjacent to a residential zone, the drive-
through lane or parking area providing for drive-in service, shall be properly
screened and landscaped in order to minimize noise and conflict with the
adjoining use. (See greenbelt buffer requirements, §
152.075).
   (B)   The drive-through lane shall have at least a 12-foot width and shall
accommodate the stacking of at least five vehicles or roughly 100 feet in
length. Where conflict may exist with pedestrian movement from parking areas,
this access shall be clearly marked for safety purposes.
(Prior Code, § 750.20) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.290 NEW AND USED VEHICLES, TRAILER SALES.
   The following conditions shall apply to any facility providing for the sale
of new or used vehicles, trailers or manufactured homes and any related
service, including repair:
   (A)   The standards associated with the parking of vehicles for sale shall
include all parking and loading requirements contained in §§
152.086 and
152.087, and the sign requirements contained in §§
152.340 through
152.346.
   (B)   A greenbelt buffer meeting the requirements in §
152.075 shall be established on all sides where vehicle parking is adjacent to
an adjoining property line and on any side adjoining a residential district.
   (C)   A 20-foot landscaped area shall be established within the front yard
setback where vehicle parking is within the front yard setback. This same
standard shall apply for corner lots where two front yards are created.
   (D)   There shall be no inoperable vehicles stored outside and no vehicle
repair to occur other than within an enclosed building.
   (E)   There shall be lighting for security purposes, with no stray
illumination onto any adjoining property.
(Prior Code, § 750.21) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.291 TEMPORARY DWELLINGS.
   Single-family manufactured homes not otherwise satisfying the minimum width
and/or floor area requirements for single story dwelling units may be used as
temporary dwellings subject to the following specific conditions:
   (A)   The manufactured home may be used by the property owner and his or her
family as a temporary dwelling during the construction of a home to be occupied
by the property owner and may continue to be used as a temporary dwelling until
such time as an occupancy permit is issued for the home under construction, but
not to exceed one year.
   (B)   The manufactured home shall be connected to an adequate water supply
and sewage disposal system approved by the County Health Department.
   (C)   The manufactured home shall be removed from the premises within 30
days from the expiration of the conditional use permit.
   (D)   The manufactured home meets all other requirements of this district.
(Prior Code, § 750.22) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.292 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. Regulation of adult entertainment uses is directed at
protection of the health, safety and welfare of village residents through the
establishment of conditions by which such uses may be approved. The intent is
to minimize the negative impacts of the use, including potential blight and
possible criminal activity associated with adult uses. It is not the intent of
this subchapter to regulate the content of materials associated with the use,
rather the separation of incompatible uses that may result in loss of property
value.
   (B)   District. Adult entertainment uses are conditional uses within the LI-
Light Industrial District. Such uses are deemed to be incompatible with uses
permitted within the agricultural, residential and commercial districts and the
site development regulations provide for increased setback and lot area to
further reduce the incompatibility.
   (C)   Definitions. The uses defined are not intended to be an exclusive list
of adult entertainment. Any use required to be licensed or inspected shall be
included within this definition of adult entertainment even if not specifically
listed under this division:
      ADULT BOOTH, ARCADE, MOTION PICTURE or MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER (or
similar use). Presents material which displays images emphasizing matter
depicting or describing SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS as defined in this division. Such uses shall be within an enclosed
building or enclosed room within the building and shall not be viewed or
displayed immediately upon entering the building or room.
      ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE (or similar
use). Offers for rent or sale material which displays images emphasizing matter
depicting or describing SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS as defined in this division. Such stores that limit the concentration of
such material to an “adult only” section, encompassing less than 25% of the
usable floor area and less than 25% of the gross receipts from sales or
rentals, shall not be considered under this definition or regulated as adult
entertainment.
      ADULT CABARET, NIGHTCLUB, THEATER (or similar establishment). Features
live performances by dancers (topless, go-go or exotic as examples), strippers
or similar entertainers, where the performers feature live display of SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS or describe SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES, as defined in this
division.
      ADULT MOTEL or ADULT LODGING ESTABLISHMENT (or similar use). Provides
materials for sale or rent, including in-room videos, which displays images
emphasizing matter depicting or describing SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS, as defined in this division. Such facilities shall
clearly advertise the availability of such adult entertainment.
      ADULT PERSONAL SERVICE or ATYPICAL CULTURE BUSINESS (or similar uses).
Includes massage parlors, health spas, saunas or steam baths where the person
providing the service is nude or partially nude, which is defined as having
attire which reveals SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Areas of the body, less than completely or
opaquely covered, including human genitals, the pubic region, buttock or female
breast area below a point immediately above the top of the areola. This
definition shall also include human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state
even if completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal, acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy
or fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, the pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
   (D)   Conditions. In order to reduce or mitigate the incompatibility of such
uses with surrounding uses, the following conditions shall apply for adult
entertainment:
      (1)   All such facilities shall meet any state licensing requirements,
fire regulations or other state or local requirements for operation.
      (2)   All such facilities shall provide for separate male and female
restrooms and such restrooms shall be free to the public.
      (3)   The entrance to such facilities shall be clearly posted "For Adults
Only" and anyone entering the facility shall be asked for permanent
identification to determine that no person under the age of 18 is allowed.
      (4)   Signage shall adhere to the village sign regulations and no
advertisement shall be visible from the exterior of the facility related to the
display or description of materials defined as specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, or any language considered slang providing for the
same description.
      (5)   A site plan shall be submitted which meets the village's standards
for site plan review, including landscaping and lighting that will decrease the
incompatibility with surrounding uses. The site plan shall also indicate any
existing uses, buildings or structures within 500 feet of the property.
      (6)   The site for such adult entertainment use shall not be located
within 500 feet of any community facilities, including churches, schools,
public parks, daycare facilities or any public buildings.
      (7)   The site for such adult entertainment use shall not be located
within 300 feet of any residence or from a residential zoning district.
      (8)   The site for such adult entertainment use shall not be located
within 1,000 feet of any other adult entertainment use as defined in this
subsection.
      (9)   Parking areas shall be well lit and no loitering or congregation of
patrons outside of the facility shall be allowed by the proprietor of the
business.
   (E)   Exempt uses. Any use that is licensed or certified for purposes of
other professional service, including barbers or beauticians, massage or
physical therapists, athletic trainers or other professions where bodily
contact is anticipated as part of the service, shall be exempt from these
provisions so long as the use does not extend to providing services similar to
those identified under this section.
(Prior Code, § 750.23) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004; Ord. 04-05, passed - -)
§ 152.293 HOSPITALS.
   The following shall be required in connection with any approval granted for
a general or specialized hospital to provide care for human beings:
   (A)   Such hospital shall be owned and operated by a non-profit corporation;
   (B)   No building or buildings shall be erected or used for such purposes
except on a parcel of ground containing a minimum of ten acres;
   (C)   The minimum size of any project must provide hospital beds for not
less than 100 patients in the first phase of construction;
   (D)   Off-street parking shall be provided for at a ratio of at least three
spaces for each hospital bed plus one space for the maximum number of employees
who might be on the premises at any one time;
   (E)   No part of the hospital or of any building used for hospital purposes
shall be closer than 100 feet to any adjacent lot.
(Prior Code, § 750.24) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.294 HOMES FOR THE ELDERLY AND RETIRED.
   The following shall be required in connection with any approval granted for
convalescent homes or homes for the elderly or retired:
   (A)   No building or buildings shall be erected, converted or used for such
purposes except on a lot or parcel of ground containing a minimum of ten acres
of land;
   (B)   There is a minimum lot area for each tenant, elderly or retired person
of 2,500 square feet;
   (C)   There is provided one off-street parking space for each two tenants,
elderly or retired persons;
   (D)   No part of the building or buildings so used is closer than 100 feet
to an adjacent lot line, except that the Planning Commission may reduce this
setback requirement to not less than 25 feet if it finds that such reduction in
the set back will not be injurious to the use or enjoyment of nearby
properties, will not result in traffic or other safety hazards, will not result
in visual blight, distraction, or clutter, and will not materially impair the
intent and purpose of this chapter or the public's interest. In modifying set
back requirements, the Planning Commission may attach conditions regarding the
location, character, landscaping, or treatment of the buildings or premises or
other such matters as are reasonable necessary to the furtherance of the intent
and spirit of this chapter and the public's interest;
   (E)   There is provided for each tenant, elderly or retired person in the
building or buildings so used a minimum floor area exclusive of basement or
attic space of 400 square feet; and
   (F)   A child care facility may be permitted as an accessory use to a home
for the elderly or retired ("home"), subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission as otherwise provided for special land uses by this
chapter, and subject to all of the following additional conditions and
requirements:
      (1)   The child care facility may receive infants, preschool and
elementary-school age children for care (including, without limitation,
supervision, training or educational instruction) for periods of less than 24
hours a day.
      (2)   The child care facility shall provide care primarily to children of
employees of the home while those employees are engaged in carrying out their
employment with the home. The requirements of this paragraph shall be deemed
satisfied so long as preference in admission to the facility shall be given to
children of employees prior to the admission of any children of persons who are
not employees of the home.
      (3)   The principal functions of the child care facility shall be to
provide opportunities for the interaction of, and to foster an inter-
generational relationship between, the elderly residents of the home and the
children attending the child care facility, and to provide child care for the
children of employees of the home.
      (4)   The child care facility shall be located on the same property as
the home to which the facility is an accessory.
      (5)   The child care facility shall provide appropriate fencing, child
drop-off and pick-up areas, and other facilities, design elements or
operational characteristics for the safety of the children attending the
facility, as determined necessary by the Planning Commission.
      (6)   The child care facility shall be registered and licensed as
required for child care centers or day-care centers under the Child Care
Organizations Act (Act No. 116 of the Public Acts of 1973, as amended; M.C.L.A.
§§ 722.111 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 750.25) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.295 GROUP DAY-CARE HOMES.
   The following shall be required in connection with any approval granted for
a group day-care home:
   (A)   The minimum lot size shall conform to the minimum lot size regulations
applicable in the district in which the group day-care is located.
   (B)   Setbacks and required yard areas shall conform to the setback and yard
regulations applicable in the district in which the group day-care home is
located.
   (C)   (1)   A group day-care home shall provide and maintain on the lot a
minimum of one square foot of outdoor play area per one square foot of gross
building area with not less than 5, 000 square feet of outdoor play area per
facility. For purposes of this section, OUTDOOR PLAY AREA means the area
located on the lot behind the established front yard setback of the facility
which is available or devoted to outdoor activities, exclusive of any area
occupied by a swimming pool. The outdoor play area shall be free from sharp
gravel, glass or cinder, and shall be well drained. The outdoor play area shall
be completely enclosed by a chain link or solid fence of at least four feet in
height.
      (2)   In its discretion, the Planning Commission may permit an outdoor
play area of less than 5,000 square feet if it is demonstrated that such
minimum area is not necessary to the proper and safe functioning of the
operation. In making this determination, the Planning Commission shall consider
the amount of outdoor play area proposed, the number of children, the hours of
operation and the types of recreation activities provided in and outdoors.
   (D)   Signs shall conform to the sign regulations applicable in the district
in which the group daycare home is located.
   (E)   The property shall be maintained consistent with the visible
characteristics of the neighborhood.
   (F)   Child drop-off and pick-up areas, and other facilities, design
elements and operational requirements shall be provided or complied with as
determined necessary by the Planning Commission for the safety of the children
attending the group day-care home.
(Prior Code, § 750.26) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.296 CHILD CARE CENTERS.
   Any approval granted for a child care center shall be subject to all of the
standards and requirements applicable to group day-care homes as provided by §
152.295, and shall also be subject to the following standards and requirements:
   (A)   (1)   Parking shall conform to the parking regulations applicable in
the district in which the child care center is located, except that additional
off-street parking for the facility shall be provided according to the
following schedule:
 
Number of children Additional off-street parking spaces
1-12               1
13-18              2
19-26              3
27-30              4
 
      (2)   In addition, at least one off-street parking space shall be
provided for each on-duty employee of the child care center.
   (B)   If the child care center is located on a major arterial street, an
off-street drop-off/pick-up area must be provided, including an on-site vehicle
turn-around or separate entrance and exit points.
   (C)   The child care center shall be registered and licensed as required for
child care centers, or day-care centers under the Child Care Organizations Act
(Act No. 116 of the Public Acts of 1973, M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 et seq., as
amended).
(Prior Code, § 750.27) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.297 ADULT DAY-CARE HOMES.
   Any approval granted for an adult day-care home shall be subject to all of
the standards and requirements applicable to group day-care homes as provided
by §
152.295, and shall also be subject to the following standards and requirements:
   (A)   (1)   Adult day-care homes shall provide and maintain on the lot a
minimum of one square foot of outdoor open space per one square foot of gross
building area with not less than 5,000 square feet of outdoor area per
facility. For purpose of this section, outdoor open space area means the area
located on the lot behind the established front yard set-back of the facility
which is available or devoted to outdoor activities, exclusive of any area
occupied by a swimming pool. The outdoor open space are shall be free from
sharp gravel, glass or cinder, and shall be well drained. The outdoor open
space area shall be completely enclosed by a chain link or solid fence of at
least four feet in height, and may be screened from any abutting residential
use by vegetation having a height when planted of at least five feet.
      (2)   In its discretion, the Planning Commission may permit an outdoor
play area of less than 5,000 square feet if it is demonstrated that such
minimum area is not necessary to the proper and safe functioning of the
operation. In making this determination, the Planning Commission shall consider
the amount of outdoor play area proposed, the number and age of the adults for
which care is provided, the hours of operation and the types of recreation
activities provided in and outdoors.
   (B)   Drop-offend pick-up areas for adults receiving care, and other
facilities, design elements and operational requirements shall be provided or
complied with as determined by the Planning Commission for the safety of the
adults attending the facility.
(Prior Code, § 750.28) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.298 ADULT DAY-CARE CENTERS.
   Any approval granted for an adult day-care center shall be subject to all of
the standards and requirements applicable to group day-care homes as provided
by §
152.295, except for §
152.295(C) and (F), and shall also be subject to the following standards and
requirements:
   (A)   (1)   Parking shall conform to the parking regulations applicable in
the district in which the adult day-care center is located, except that
additional off-street parking for the facility shall be provided according to
the following schedule:
 
Number of adults Additional off-street parking spaces
1-12             1
13-18            2
19-26            3
27-30            4
 
      (2)   In addition, at least one off-street parking space shall be
provided for each on-duty employee of the adult day-care center.
   (B)   If the adult day-care center is located on a major arterial street, an
off-street drop-off/pick-up area must be provided, including an on-site vehicle
turn-around or separate entrance and exit points.
(Prior Code, § 750.29) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.299 WAREHOUSING AND STORAGE FACILITIES FOR ESTABLISHED RETAIL BUSINESSES.
   Warehousing and storage facilities, the use of which is solely incidental to
that of an established retail business, but not physically located on the same
parcel of land shall be subject to the following specific conditions:
   (A)   The established business shall be physically located within the
village limits.
   (B)   All stored items, equipment, products and materials shall be enclosed
within a building and shall be to a considerable extent clean and free from any
dangerous nuisance or hazardous or objectionable odors.
   (C)   Where the site abuts a residential zone, there shall be screening
through the use of greenbelt buffers meeting the requirements of §
152.075.
   (D)   Adequate lighting shall be installed in a manner to provide for
required security, with no stray illumination onto any adjoining property.
(Prior Code, § 750.30) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.300 COMMERCIAL STORAGE RENTAL FACILITIES.
   Commercial storage rental facilities shall be subject to the following
specific conditions:
   (A)   All stored items, equipment, products and materials shall be enclosed
within a building and shall be to a considerable extent clean and free from any
dangerous nuisance or hazardous or objectionable odors.
   (B)   Where the site abuts a residential zone, there shall be screening
through the use of greenbelt buffers meeting the requirements of §
152.075.
   (C)   Adequate lighting shall be installed in a manner to provide for
required security, with no stray illumination onto any adjoining property.
(Prior Code, § 750.31) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.301 COMMERCIAL REPAIR FACILITIES FOR AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER LIGHT MOTOR
VEHICLES; GENERAL REPAIR.
   Such facilities shall be subject to the following specific conditions:
   (A)   Commercial repair facilities for automobiles and other light motor
vehicles shall be limited to general repair, servicing, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles and their component parts, including collision
services such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair, painting and
undercoating.
   (B)   The operation shall be to a considerable extent clean and free from
any dangerous nuisance or hazardous or objectionable odors and shall meet all
federal, state and local environmental quality standards.
   (C)   There shall be no vehicle components, parts or inoperable or
unlicensed vehicles stored outside and no vehicle repair to occur other than
within an enclosed building.
   (D)   A greenbelt buffer meeting the requirements in §
152.075 shall be established on any side abutting a residential zoned district.
(Prior Code, § 750.32) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.302 COMMERCIAL REPAIR FACILITIES FOR AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER LIGHT MOTOR
VEHICLES; LIMITED REPAIR.
   Such facilities shall be subject to the following specific conditions:
   (A)   Commercial repair facilities for automobiles and other light motor
vehicles shall be limited to general repair, servicing, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles and their component parts, but not including
collision services such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair,
painting and undercoating.
   (B)   The operation shall be to a considerable extent clean and free from
any dangerous nuisance or hazardous or objectionable odors and shall meet all
federal, state and local environmental quality standards.
   (C)   There shall be no vehicle components, parts or inoperable or
unlicensed vehicles stored outside and no vehicle repair to occur other than
within an enclosed building.
   (D)   A greenbelt buffer meeting the requirements in §
152.075 shall be established on any side abutting a residential zoned district.
(Prior Code, § 750.33) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
§ 152.303 PLACES OF AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION.
   This use shall be conducted within an enclosed building, or within a fenced
area, with such activity limited to no less than 100 feet from any residential
zoned district.
(Prior Code, § 750.34) (Ord. -, passed 3-20-2004)
NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS
§ 152.325 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND OR BUILDING.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses of land. Where, at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this chapter as enacted or amended, the use may
be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   No nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased to occupy a
larger area, nor moved in whole or in part to any other portion of the lot or
parcel occupied at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use of land abandoned for a period of more than
90 days shall be subsequently conformed to the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 747.01)
   (B)   Nonconforming uses of buildings. Where a lawful building exists at the
effective date of this chapter, or amendment thereto, that could not be built
under this chapter by reason of its location on the lot, lot coverage, height,
yard, or other characteristics, the structure may be continued, subject to the
following.
      (1)   Any structure existing at the effective date of this chapter,
devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter in the district in which it is
located shall not be altered, enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed,
moved, or structurally altered except in changing the use of the structure to a
use permitted in the district in which it is located.
      (2)   When a nonconforming use of a building is vacated or abandoned for
six consecutive months, the building shall not be used thereafter except in
conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 747.02)
   (C)   Nonconforming buildings. Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of adoption or amending of this chapter that could not be built
under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards, or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, the structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   No structure may be enlarged or altered in any way which increases
its nonconformity.
      (2)   All lots of record at the effective date of this chapter shall be
exempt from §
152.238.
      (3)   Should the structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
      (4)   Should the structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50% of its replacement cost at time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The
repairs shall be initiated within 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 747.03)
   (D)   Illegal nonconforming uses and buildings. Those alleged nonconforming
uses of land, uses of buildings and buildings which cannot be proved
conclusively to have been existing prior to the effective date of this chapter,
or any amendment thereto, shall be declared illegal nonconforming uses of land,
nonconforming uses of buildings and nonconforming buildings and shall be
discontinued upon written notification from the Zoning Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 747.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIGN REGULATION
§ 152.340 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No sign shall be erected at any location, where by reason of the position,
size, shape, color, movement, or illumination, it may interfere with, obstruct
the view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device
so as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic. Consideration of traffic
visibility and injurious effects on adjacent properties is essential. All signs
shall be designed, constructed, and maintained so as not to change the
essential character of the area.
(Prior Code, § 748.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.341 SIGNS PERMITTED, OAC DISTRICT.
   (A)   In the OAC Open Space, Agricultural, and Waterbody Conservation
District, only one sign of each of the following types shall be permitted on
each lot or parcel unless otherwise specified herein.
   (B)   The following signs are permitted:
      (1)   A non-illuminated sign advertising the sale or rental of the
building or premises not exceeding six square feet in area and placed no nearer
to the street line than one half the required yard depth;
      (2)   Non-illuminated trespassing, safety, directional, caution, or
announcement signs each not exceeding two square feet in area;
      (3)   A non-illuminated sign announcing a home occupation, service, or
product offered on the premises, provided that such a sign shall not exceed 12
square feet in area; and shall be located no closer to the street line than one
half the required frontage yard; and
      (4)   A sign or bulletin board identifying a church, school park, or
other authorized use not to exceed 12 square feet in area and placed no nearer
than 15 feet to any property line. The sign may be illuminated by a non-
flashing reflective light and the source of illumination shall not be visible.
(Prior Code, § 748.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.342 SIGNS PERMITTED, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In any residential district, only one sign of each of the following
types shall be permitted on each lot or parcel unless otherwise specified
herein.
   (B)   The following signs are permitted:
      (1)   A non-illuminated sign advertising the sale or rental of the
building or property not exceeding six square feet in area and placed no nearer
to the street line than one-half of the required front yard depth;
      (2)   A non-illuminated sign announcing a home occupation or service that
is offered on the premises provided that the sign shall not exceed two square
feet in area and shall be attached flat against a building wall;
      (3)   One sign advertising a recorded subdivision or development not to
exceed 18 square feet in area and placed no closer to any street right-of-way
than one-third the minimum authorized front yard depth, the sign shall be
removed within one year after the sale of 90% of all lots or units within the
subdivision or development;
      (4)   One sign identifying a multiple-family building, subdivision, or
development, not having commercial connotations, not to exceed 18 square feet
in area and placed no closer to any street right-of-way line than one-third the
minimum authorized front yard depth; and
      (5)   A sign or bulletin board identifying a church, school, or other
authorized use, not to exceed 12 square feet in area and placed no nearer than
15 feet to any property line. The sign may be illuminated by a non-flashing
reflected light and the source of illumination shall not be visible.
(Prior Code, § 748.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.343 SIGNS PERMITTED, COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A sign in any commercial or industrial district is permitted only
where it advertises a business occupying the same lot of land upon which the
sign is erected.
   (B)   Signs shall conform to the building setback and height requirements
and, in addition, shall conform to the requirements provided below:
      (1)   In any commercial or industrial district, a sign may be affixed
flat against the wall of the building, or may project therefrom not more than
48 inches, provided that the signs do not project over a sidewalk or public
right-of-way. Projecting signs shall be at least 12 feet above finished grade.
The total sign area shall not exceed one square foot for each foot in length or
height of the wall, whichever is greater, to which it is affixed. No sign shall
extend more than four feet in height above the building to which it is affixed;
      (2)   One freestanding identification sign may be erected for a shopping
center or other integrated group of stores or commercial buildings. The area
for the sign shall be based on one square foot for each foot of building
frontage, however, it shall not exceed 200 square feet in area, not be closer
to the front, side, or rear property line than one-third the distance of the
required building setback;
      (3)   One freestanding identification sign may be erected for each
separate enterprise situated on an individual lot not located within a shopping
center. The sign shall not exceed 80 square feet in area, except in the CS
Community Service Commercial District. The signs shall not exceed 36 square
feet in area, nor be closer to the front, side, or rear property line, than
one-third the distance of the required building setback; and
      (4)   All signs may be illuminated internally or by reflected light
provided the source of light is not directly visible and is so arranged to
reflect away from the adjoining premises and provided that the illumination
shall not be placed as to cause confusion or a hazard to traffic or conflict
with traffic control signs or light. No illumination involving movement by
reason of the lighting arrangement or other devices shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 748.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.344 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   Outdoor advertising signs (billboards) shall be permitted under the
following conditions.
   (A)   Outdoor advertising signs (billboards) are permitted only in the
commercial and industrial districts.
   (B)   Outdoor advertising signs are required to have the same setback as
other principal structures or buildings in the zone in which they are situated.
   (C)   Where two or more outdoor advertising signs are along the frontage of
a single street or highway, they shall not be less than 1,000 feet apart. A
double face (back to back) or a V-type structure shall be considered a single
sign.
   (D)   The total surface area, facing in the same direction of any outdoor
advertising sign, shall not exceed 200 square feet.
   (E)   No outdoor advertising sign shall be erected on the roof of any
building, nor have one sign above another sign.
   (F)   Outdoor advertising signs may be illuminated by reflected light only,
provided the source of light is not directly visible and is so arranged to
reflect away from the adjoining premises and provided that the illumination
shall not be so placed as to cause confusion or a hazard to traffic or conflict
with traffic control signs or lights. No illumination involving movement by
reason of the lighting arrangement or other devices shall be permitted.
   (G)   Outdoor advertising signs shall be designed, constructed, operated,
maintained, and managed so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance
with the existing or intended character of the general vicinity and so as the
use will not change the essential character of the same area.
   (H)   Outdoor name or identification signs are exempt from the provisions of
this section, provided that all the signs shall be flush with the building wall
or roof.
   (I)   Outdoor advertising signs located along a state primary highway shall
be regulated by the provisions specified in M.C.L.A. §§ 252.301 through
252.325.
(Prior Code, § 748.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.345 GASOLINE SERVICE STATION SIGNS.
   (A)   One permanently installed sign shall be permitted for each service
station and shall be installed in such a manner that vision shall not be
obstructed in any way other than by necessary supports to a height of 16 feet,
but no sign shall exceed 25 feet in height or 60 square feet in area.
   (B)   All appropriate legends may be attached against the main building or
on gasoline pumps.
(Prior Code, § 748.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.346 NONCONFORMING SIGNS ELIMINATED.
   All signs and billboards erected after the effective date of this chapter
shall conform to the regulations as set forth in this chapter and its
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 748.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.360 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide the procedures for
administering this chapter, conducting on-site inspection of properties, and
enforcing the provisions of this chapter and amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 742.01)
§ 152.361 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Village
Planning Commission and the Village Council in accordance with the State
Municipal Planning Commission Act, Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.31 through 125.45, as amended, and the State City and Village Zoning Act,
Public Act 207 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 through 125.590, as amended.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall appoint, subject to Village Council
approval, a resident of the village as Zoning Inspector, to act as the officer
to effect proper administration of this chapter. The Village Council shall,
upon the recommendation of the Village Manager, establish the rate of
compensation for the Zoning Inspector. For the purpose of this chapter, the
Zoning Inspector shall have the powers and duties of a police officer.
   (C)   In the absence of the Zoning Inspector, the Village Clerk or other
officer appointed by the Village Manager, subject to Council approval, shall
assume all the powers and duties of the Zoning Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 742.02)
ZONING INSPECTOR
§ 152.375 ZONING INSPECTOR DUTIES.
   (A)   Review all applications for building permits, conduct on-site
inspections, and recommend approval or disapproval of the applications based on
compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review all applications for conditional use permits; conduct field
inspections, surveys, and investigations; prepare maps, charts, and other
pictorial materials when necessary or desirable, and otherwise process
applications so as to formulate recommendations to the Planning Commission; and
notify the applicant, in writing, of any decision of the Planning Commission;
   (C)   Review all applications for appeals, variances, or other matters which
the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to decide under this chapter; conduct
field inspections, surveys, and investigations; prepare maps, charts, and other
pictorial materials when necessary or desirable; and otherwise process
applications so as to formulate recommendations to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for determination;
   (D)   Review all applications for amendments to this chapter to include
petitions for rezoning; conduct field inspections, surveys, and investigations;
prepare maps, charts, and other pictorial materials when necessary or
desirable, and otherwise process applications so as to formulate
recommendations; and report to the Planning Commission all the applications
together with recommendations;
   (E)   In coordination with the Planning Commission, be responsible for
updating the Official Zoning Map and keep it current;
   (F)   Maintain written records of all actions taken; and
   (G)   Be responsible for providing the forms necessary for the various
applications to the Zoning Inspector, Planning Commission, Council, or Zoning
Board of Appeals, as required by this chapter, and be responsible for what
information is necessary on those forms for the effective administration of
this chapter, subject to the general policies of the Council, Planning
Commission, and Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 742.03)
§ 152.376 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   The Zoning Inspector shall review each application to ensure that a
site plan conforming to the requirements of the building code of the village,
as amended, is attached and that the site plan complies with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Inspector shall conduct an inspection of the building site
to determine whether the location of the proposed building(s), as indicated by
the corners staked, conforms to that shown in the site plan, and is in
accordance with the yard setbacks and all other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The Zoning Inspector shall acknowledge compliance or noncompliance
with the requirements of this chapter in the space provided on the building
permit application.
   (D)   If any of the requirements of this chapter are not met, the Zoning
Inspector shall return the building permit application to the village office
without action and shall describe, in writing, the reasons for the rejection.
(Prior Code, § 742.04)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.390 FEES, CHARGES, COSTS.
   The Council shall establish, by resolution, a schedule of fees, charges, and
costs, and a collection procedure for appeals and other matters pertaining to
this chapter. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the village office and
may be altered or amended only by the Council. No certificate, conditional use
or approval, or variance shall be issued until the fees, charges, and costs
have been paid in full, nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the
Zoning Board of Appeals until the fees, charges, and costs have been paid in
full.
(Prior Code, § 742.05)
§ 152.391 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any building or structure, including a tent or manufactured home,
which is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, maintained,
or used, or any use of land or premises which is begun, maintained, or changed
in violation of any provision of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance per se.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the Zoning Inspector, through continuing
surveillance, to identify and report violations; however, any citizen may
report actual violations to either the Council or the Zoning Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 742.06)
§ 152.392 LEGAL ACTION.
   The Village Attorney, or any owner or owners of real estate within the
district in which the building, structure, or land is situated, may institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement, or any other appropriate action, actions, or
proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove the unlawful erection,
construction, alteration, maintenance, or use. The rights and remedies provided
herein are cumulative and in addition to all other remedies provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 742.07)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 152.405 BOARD OF APPEALS ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals, which shall perform
its duties and exercise its powers as provided by Public Act 110 of 2006, also
known as the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through
125.3702, as amended, in such a way that the objectives of this code shall be
enforced, the public health and safety secured, and substantial justice done.
(Prior Code, § 743.01)
§ 152.406 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of no less than three
regular members, each to be appointed for a term of three years; provided that
appointments for the first years shall be for a period of one, two, and three
years respectively, so as nearly may be to provide for the appointment of an
equal number each year, depending in the number of members; thereafter, each
member to hold office for the full three-year terms. Of the membership of the
Zoning Board of Appeals, one member shall be a member of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The Council may appoint not more than two alternate members for the
same term as regular members of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The alternate
members may be called on a rotating basis to sit as regular members of the
Zoning Board of Appeals in the absence of a regular member. An alternate member
may also be called to serve in the place of a regular member for the purpose of
reaching a decision on a case in which the regular member has abstained for
reasons of conflict of interest. The alternate member having been appointed
shall serve in the case until a final decision has been made. The alternate
member shall have the same voting rights as a regular member of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
   (C)   The Council may, during the unavailability of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, act for it upon all appropriate questions arising under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 743.02) (Ord. 06-02, passed 7-17-2006; Am. Ord. -, passed 2-6-
2017)
§ 152.407 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure as may be necessary to
properly conduct its meetings. The concurring vote of two-thirds of the members
of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the administrative official or to
decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which they are required to
pass under this chapter or to effect any variation in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 743.03)
§ 152.408 MEETINGS AND MINUTES.
   (A)   Meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board in its rules of procedure
may specify.
(Prior Code, § 743.04)
   (B)   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be open to the
public. Minutes shall be recorded on all proceedings which shall contain
evidence and the final disposition of each case. The grounds of every
determination shall be so stated and the determination from which the appeal is
taken. The minutes shall accompany and be attached to the standard forms
required of persons appealing as part of the Zoning Board of Appeals' permanent
records. The minutes shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk and
shall be sent promptly to the applicant or appellant and to the Zoning
Inspector. The Village Clerk may act as Secretary to the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The Village Attorney shall act as legal counsel for the Board and
shall be present at all meetings upon the request of the Board. Other
knowledgeable persons may also be utilized in an advisory capacity.
(Prior Code, § 743.05)
§ 152.409 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall have the power to interpret the provisions
of this chapter, and grant variances from the strict application of any
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Where a proposed interpretation of this chapter effectually changes
the language herein, the Zoning Board will recommend an appropriate amendment
to the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 743.06)
§ 152.410 VARIANCE.
   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by the Board
of Appeals unless and until:
   (A)   A written application for a variance is submitted, demonstrating that:
      (1)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
      (2)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter; and
      (3)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant
any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other land, structures,
or buildings in the same district.
   (B)   No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or buildings in
the same district, and no permitted use of lands, structures, or buildings in
other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance;
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall make findings that the requirements of this
chapter have been met by the applicant for a variance;
   (D)   The Board of Appeals shall further make a finding that the reasons set
forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and the variance
is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of the land,
building, or structure;
   (E)   The Board of Appeals shall further make a finding that the granting of
the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare;
   (F)   In granting any variance, the Board of Appeals may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under §
152.392;
   (G)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Appeals grant a variance to
allow a use not permitted under the terms of this chapter in the district; and
   (H)   The Zoning Board of Appeals when considering a variance must provide
notice of the consideration to all residences within 300 feet and provide
notice in a newspaper of general circulation 15 days in advance of the variance
consideration.
(Prior Code, § 743.07) (Ord. 06-02, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 152.411 RE-APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   Generally. The following provisions shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Each variance granted under the provisions of this chapter shall
become null and void unless the construction authorized by the variance or
permit has been commenced within 90 days after the granting of the variance and
pursued diligently to completion.
      (2)   No application for a variance which has been denied wholly or in
part by the Board of Appeals shall be resubmitted for a period of 365 days from
the denial, except on grounds of new evidence or proof of changed conditions
found by the Board of Appeals to be valid.
(Prior Code, § 743.08)
§ 152.412 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appeals; how taken. Appeals from the ruling of the Zoning Inspector
may be made to the Board of Appeals in the following manner.
      (1)   The person, firm, or agent thereof making the appeal shall file in
writing to the Zoning Inspector a letter stating what the specific appeal is
and the reasons for the appeal.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector shall submit the written appeal, along with
all papers constituting the record from which the action appealed was taken, to
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Who may appeal. Appeals to the Board of Appeals may be taken by any
person aggrieved, or by an officer, department, board, agency, or bureau of the
village, county, or state.
   (C)   Fee for appeal. A fee prescribed by the Council shall be submitted to
the Clerk at the time of filing the letter of appeals. The appeals fee shall
immediately be placed in the Village General Fund.
   (D)   Effect of appeal; restraining order. An appeal shall stay all
proceeding in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the officer from
whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after the
notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her opinion cause imminent
peril to life or property, in which case proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of
Appeals or by the Circuit Court, on application, on notice to the officer from
whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
   (E)   Hearing by the Board of Appeals; requests; notice; hearing. When a
request for appeal has been filed in proper form with the Board of Appeals, the
Secretary or Village Clerk shall immediately place the request for appeal upon
the calendar for hearing, and cause notice, stating the time, place, and object
of the hearing to be served personally or by registered return receipt mail at
least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, upon the party or parties
making the request for appeal.
   (F)   Representation at hearing. At the hearing, any party or parties may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (G)   Decisions of the Board of Appeals and appeals to the Circuit Court.
The Board of Appeals shall decide upon all appeals within a reasonable time and
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from and shall make the order, requirement,
decision, or determination as in its opinion ought to be made in the premises
and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning Inspector from whom the
appeal is taken. The Board of Appeals decision of the appeal shall be in the
form of a resolution containing a full record of the findings and
determinations of the Board of Appeals in each particular case and the
signatures of each member of the Board of Appeals affixed thereon. Any persons
having an interest affected by the resolution shall have the right to appeal to
the Circuit Court on questions of law and fact.
(Prior Code, § 743.09)
APPENDIX A: LOT REGULATIONS
 R1 R2 R3 R4 MHP B CS HS LI HI OAC
          R1     R2    R3   R4    MHP B     CS     HS     LI     HI    OAC
          13,000 8,000      8,000     3,000 10,000 10,000 20,000 5     1.5
Lot Area  sq.    sq.   *    sq.   *   sq.   sq.    sq.    sq.    acres acres
          feet   feet       feet      feet  feet*  feet*  feet*
Lot Width 100    66    *    66    *   30    80     80     80     200   200
          feet   feet       feet      feet  feet   feet   feet   feet  feet
Lot       20     30    35   30    *   90    25     25     25     25    10 feet
Coverage  feet   feet  feet feet      feet  feet   feet   feet   feet
Front     50     35    35   35    *   10    35     35     85     85    60 feet
Setback   feet   feet  feet feet      feet  feet   feet   feet   feet
Rear      40     35    35   35    *   *     35     20     35     50    50 feet
          feet   feet  feet feet            feet   feet   feet   feet
                 8          8
Each Side 20     feet, 20   feet, *   *     20     20     20     50    30 feet
Total     feet   20    feet 20              feet   feet   feet   feet
                 feet       feet
Height    35     35    *    35    *   45    45     35     45     50    40 feet
Principal feet   feet       feet      feet  feet   feet   feet   feet
Height    25     25    *    25    *   *     *      *      *      *     8 feet
Access    feet   feet       feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - Consult
Chapter 152.
 
(Prior Code, App. 1)
APPENDIX B: YARD REQUIREMENTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20b715fbcd251ca4c3de1537a3a5676fbcfd6809/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1048.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, App. 2)
APPENDIX C: ROOF TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20b715fbcd251ca4c3de1537a3a5676fbcfd6809/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1051.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, App. 3)
APPENDIX D: PARKING LAYOUTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20b715fbcd251ca4c3de1537a3a5676fbcfd6809/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1054.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, App. 4)
APPENDIX E: TYPES OF LOTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20b715fbcd251ca4c3de1537a3a5676fbcfd6809/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1057.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, App. 5)
APPENDIX F: STRUCTURAL TERMINOLOGY
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20b715fbcd251ca4c3de1537a3a5676fbcfd6809/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1060.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, App. 6)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Required permit
   
153.04   Application
   
153.05   Responsible person
Application and Construction Requirements
   
153.20   Government permits
   
153.21   Proposed building sites
   
153.22   Subdivision proposals
   
153.23   Water and sewage systems
   
153.24   Base flood elevation; floodproofing
   
153.25   Flood insurance risk rates
   
153.26   Flood Insurance Study
   
153.27   Watercourse alteration; relocation
   
153.28   Floodways
   
153.29   Manufactured home anchoring requirements
   
153.30   Manufactured home subdivisions; mobile home parks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the measures which shall be
required within Zone A of the Flood Hazard Boundary Map issued by the Federal
Insurance Administration for the village as set forth in § 1910.3(b) of the
Federal Insurance Administration Regulations in order to establish eligibility
in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 780.01)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD PLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source. See definition of FLOOD.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, and water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking, or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. As defined in §
152.004.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
(Prior Code, § 780.17)
§ 153.03 REQUIRED PERMIT.
   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, move, or
demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a separate permit
for each building or structure from the designated responsible person. No
human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not
limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation, or drilling operations, shall be commenced until a separate
permit has been obtained from the designated responsible person for each
change. No manufactured home shall be placed on improved or unimproved real
estate without first obtaining a separate permit for each manufactured home
from the designated responsible person.
(Prior Code, § 780.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.04 APPLICATION.
   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file a permit application on a
form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted to
the designated responsible person with a fee of $20 before the issuance of a
permit will be considered.
(Prior Code, § 780.03)
§ 153.05 RESPONSIBLE PERSON.
   The Planning Commission, hereinafter referred to as the "responsible
person," is appointed as the "person" responsible for receiving applications
and examining the plans and specifications for the proposed construction or
development. After reviewing the application, the responsible person shall
require any additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum
requirements of this document.
(Prior Code, § 780.04)
APPLICATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.20 GOVERNMENT PERMITS.
   The responsible person shall review the proposed development to assure that
all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
(Prior Code, § 780.05)
§ 153.21 PROPOSED BUILDING SITES.
   (A)   The responsible person shall review all permit applications to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (B)   If a proposed building site is in a flood-prone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
prefabricated buildings and manufactured homes) shall:
      (1)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and
      (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
(Prior Code, § 780.06)
§ 153.22 SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   The responsible person shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new developments to determine whether the subdivisions and other
developments will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a
flood-prone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All the proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood-prone area;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Prior Code, § 780.07)
§ 153.23 WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Water supply systems. The responsible person shall, require within
flood-prone areas, new and replacement water supply systems to be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
(Prior Code, § 780.08)
   (B)   Sewage systems. The responsible person shall require, within flood-
prone areas:
      (1)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters; and
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 780.09)
§ 153.24 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION; FLOODPROOFING.
   (A)   Base flood elevation data. The responsible person shall require that
all subdivision proposals and other proposed new developments greater than 50
lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, include within the proposals base
flood elevation data.
(Prior Code, § 780.10)
   (B)   Elevation; floodproofing of lowest floor. The responsible person shall
obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available
from a federal, state, or other source, until the other data has been provided
by the Administrator, as criteria for requiring that:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood level; and
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to the level of the base flood elevation,
or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this section are satisfied. The certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
153.25.
(Prior Code, § 780.11)
§ 153.25 FLOOD INSURANCE RISK RATES.
   For the purpose of the determination of applicable flood insurance risk
premium rates within Zone A on the village's Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM),
the responsible person shall:
   (A)   Obtain, or require the applicant to furnish, the elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement)
of all new or substantially improved structures, and whether or not the
structures contain a basement;
   (B)   Obtain, or require the applicant to furnish, if the structure has been
floodproofed, the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
structure was floodproofed; and
   (C)   Maintain a record of all the information.
(Prior Code, § 780.12)
§ 153.26 FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.
   The Flood Insurance Study for the village, dated 11-3-1981, with
accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps, is
hereby adopted.
(Prior Code, § 780.16)
§ 153.27 WATERCOURSE ALTERATION; RELOCATION.
   (A)   Alteration; relocation of watercourse. The responsible person shall
notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State Coordinating
Office prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
copies of the notifications to the Federal Insurance Administration.
(Prior Code, § 780.13)
   (B)   Flood carrying capacity of altered watercourse. The responsible person
shall assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
(Prior Code, § 780.14)
§ 153.28 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within areas of special flood hazard, are areas designated as
floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is extremely hazardous due to the velocity of flood
waters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the
following provisions apply.
      (1)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development, are prohibited unless a technical
evaluation demonstrates that encroachments shall not result in any increase in
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The placement of any manufactured homes, except in an existing
mobile home park or existing manufactured home subdivision, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 780.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.29 MANUFACTURED HOME ANCHORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The responsible person shall require that all homes to be placed
within Zone A on the village's Flood Hazard Boundary Map shall be anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by providing over-the-top and
frame ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   Specific requirements shall be that:
      (1)   Over-the top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations and homes
less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
      (2)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and homes less than 50 feet
long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Any additions to the home be similarly anchored.
(Prior Code, § 780.15)
§ 153.30 MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS; MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with §
153.29.
   (B)   For new mobile home parks and manufactured home subdivisions; for
expansions to existing mobile home parks and manufactured home subdivisions;
for existing manufactured home subdivisions where the repair, reconstruction,
or improvement of the streets, utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of
value of the streets, utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or
improvement has commenced; and for manufactured homes not placed in a mobile
home park or manufactured home subdivision, it is required that:
      (1)   Stands or lots are elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home will be at or above the base flood
level;
      (2)   Adequate surface drainage and access for a hauler are provided; and
      (3)   In the instance of elevation on pilings, that:
         (a)   Lots are large enough to permit steps;
         (b)   Piling foundations are placed in stable soil no more than ten
feet apart; and
         (c)   Reinforcement is provided for pilings more than six feet above
the ground level.
(Prior Code, § 780.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
96-  4-17-  Lots 460 and 461 rezoned from R2 to OAC
01   1996
96-  10-15- Lots 1, 2, 6, 9, and 11 rezoned from OAC to R1
02   1996
99-  3-15-  Lots in Powers Addition rezoned from LI to R2
01   1999
99-  4-5-   Various rezoned plots of land
02   1999
01-  2-18-  Lots 244, 245, 253, and 254 of French’s Addition rezoned from R2 to
03   2002   LI
03-  6-16-  Property rezoned from CS to LI
05   2003
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-17-1979   Electricity franchise granted to Consumers Power Company
-        3-7-1988    Gas franchise granted to Southeastern Michigan Gas Company
98-01    - -         Cable franchise granted to Horizon Cable I Limited
                     Partnership
09-02    9-8-2009    Electricity franchise granted to Consumers Energy Company
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite        Code Section
28.451 et seq.       130.060
28.457               130.060
62.2                 32.01
65.8                 32.01
117.5b               10.01
117.5(g)             35.48
123.731 – 123.786  52.01
                     33.01,
                     34.01,
125.1651 – 125.168134.03,
                     34.15,
                     34.16
125.1667(2)          34.03
                     33.20,
125.31 – 125.45    33.24,
                     152.004,
                     152.361
                     152.002,
125.3101 – 125.3702152.041,
                     152.405
125.3801 et seq.     Ch. 152
125.51 – 125.55    33.24
                     33.25,
125.581 – 125.590  152.002,
                     152.022,
                     152.361
141.101 – 141.138  52.01,
                     52.37
141.103              52.02
141.121              52.18
141.421 – 141.440(a32.05
252.301 – 252.325  152.344
257.648              73.10
257.657a             73.10
257.657a(17)         73.10
257.961              71.01
324.1101 et seq.     51.35
324.3101 – 324.311951.02
324.11501 et seq.    152.004
324.30301            53.03
460.701(d)           92.30
559.101 – 559.272  152.004
                     151.002,
                     151.015,
                     151.020,
560.101 – 560.293  151.037,
                     151.050,
                     152.055,
                     152.056
560.112              151.016,
                     151.020
560.112 – 560.119  151.020
560.120              151.037
600.101 – 600.9948 30.01
600.8396             30.04
600.8701 et seq.     30.99
600.8701 – 600.873510.02
600.8705             30.02,
                     30.04
600.8709             30.04
722.111 et seq.      152.296,
                     152.294
764.9(a) et seq.     10.10
                     
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
120.10             30.99
122.01             30.01
122.02             30.02
122.03             30.02
122.04             30.03
140.01             31.02
160.01             32.01
160.02             32.02
160.03             32.03
160.04             32.04
160.05             32.05
160.06             32.06
160.07             32.07
162.01             32.20
162.02             32.21
162.03             32.22
162.04             32.23
180.01             33.01
180.02             33.02
180.03             33.03
180.04             33.04
180.05             33.05
180.06             33.06
180.07             33.07
180.08             33.08
182.01             33.20
182.03             33.22
182.04             33.23
182.05             33.26
182.06             33.27
182.07             33.28
182.08             33.24
182.09             33.25
202.01             71.01
202.02             71.02
202.03             71.02
202.04             71.03
202.99             71.04
204.01             72.01
204.02             72.02
204.99             72.99
206.01             73.01
206.02             73.02
206.03             73.03
206.99             73.04
                   130.001,
                   130.002,
                   130.017,
302.01             130.050,
                   130.056,
                   131.01 –
                   131.10
302.02             130.055
302.03             130.015,
                   130.016
                   130.018,
                   130.030 –
302.04             130.038,
                   130.057,
                   130.085
                   130.051 –
302.05             130.054,
                   130.056
302.06             130.058,
                   130.059
                   130.061 –
302.07             130.063,
                   130.999
                   130.080 –
302.08             130.084,
                   130.086
303.01             94.40
303.02             94.41
303.03             94.42
303.04             94.99
303.05             94.99
303.06             94.99
304.01             90.01
304.02             90.02
304.03             90.03
304.04             90.04
304.05             90.05
304.06             90.06
304.07             90.07
306.01             152.081
308.01             91.01
308.02             91.02
308.03             91.03
308.04             91.04
308.05             91.05
308.06             91.06
308.07             91.07
308.08             91.08
420.01             110.01
420.02             110.02
420.03             110.03
420.04             110.04
420.05             110.05
420.06             110.06
420.07             110.07
420.08             110.08
420.09             110.09
420.10             110.10
420.11             110.11
440.01             34.01
440.02             34.02
440.03             34.03
440.04             34.04
440.05             34.15
440.06             34.16
440.07             34.17
440.08             34.18
440.09             34.19
442.01             35.01
442.02             35.02
442.03             35.03
442.04             35.04
442.05             35.20
442.06             35.21
442.07             35.22
442.08             35.23
442.09             35.24
442.10             35.25
442.11             35.26
442.12             35.27
442.13             35.28
442.14             35.40
442.15             35.41
442.16             35.42
442.17             35.43
442.18             35.44
442.19             35.44
442.20             35.45
442.21             35.46
442.22             35.47
442.23             35.48
520.01             92.01
520.02             92.01
520.03             92.02
520.04             92.02
520.05             92.02
520.06             92.03
540.01             50.01
540.02             50.02
540.03             50.03
540.04             50.04
540.05             50.05
540.06             50.06
540.07             50.07
540.08             50.08
540.09             50.09
540.10             50.10
540.11             50.11
540.12             50.11
540.13             50.25
540.14             50.26
540.15             50.27
540.16             50.28
540.17             50.29
540.18             50.30
540.19             50.45
540.20             50.46
540.21             50.47
540.22             50.49
540.23             50.50
540.24             50.51
540.25             50.65
540.26             50.66
540.27             50.67
540.28             50.68
540.29             50.69
542.01             51.01
542.02             51.02
542.03             51.03
542.04             51.15
542.05             51.16
542.06             51.30
542.06             51.31
542.07             51.34
542.08             51.32
542.09             51.35
542.10             51.33
542.11             51.36
542.12             51.37
542.13             51.50
542.14             51.51
542.15             51.52
542.16             51.53
542.17             51.54
544.01             52.01
544.02             52.02
544.03             52.03
544.04             52.15 –
                   52.19
544.05             52.20
544.06             52.21
544.07             52.22
544.08             52.23
544.09             52.35
544.10             52.36
544.11             52.37
560.01             92.30
560.02             92.30
560.03             92.31
560.04             92.32
560.05             92.33
560.06             92.34
560.07             92.35
600.01             36.01
600.02             36.02
600.03             36.03
720.01             151.001
720.02             151.002
721.01             151.015
721.02             151.016
721.03             151.016
721.04             151.017
721.05             151.018
721.06             151.018
721.07             151.018
721.08             151.019
721.09             151.020
721.10             151.037
721.11             151.020
721.12             151.020
721.13             151.035
721.14             151.036
721.15             151.036
721.16             151.036
721.17             151.037
721.18             151.050
721.19             151.050
721.20             151.050
721.21             151.050
721.22             151.051
721.23             151.052
722.01             151.065
722.02             151.066
722.03             151.067
723.01             151.068
723.02             151.069
723.03             151.070
723.04             151.071
724.01             151.085
724.02             151.086
724.03             151.086
724.04             151.087
724.05             151.088
724.06             151.089
724.07             151.090
724.08             151.091
725.01             152.055
725.02             152.056
725.03             152.057
725.04             152.058
740.01             152.001
740.02             152.002
740.03             152.002
741.01             152.003
741.02             152.004
742.01             152.360
742.02             152.361
742.03             152.375
742.04             152.376
742.05             152.390
742.06             152.391
742.07             152.392
743.01             152.405
743.02             152.406
743.03             152.407
743.04             152.408
743.05             152.408
743.06             152.409
743.07             152.410
743.08             152.411
743.09             152.412
744.01             152.040
744.02             152.041
744.03             152.042
745.01             152.020
745.02             152.021
745.03             152.022
745.04             152.023
745.05             152.024
745.06             152.025
745.07             152.026
746.01             152.070
746.02             152.071
746.03             152.072
746.04             152.073
746.05             152.073
746.06             152.074
746.07             152.075
746.08             152.076
746.09             152.077
746.10             152.078
746.11             152.079
746.12             152.080
746.13             152.082
746.14             152.083
746.15             152.084
746.16             152.085
747.01             152.325
747.02             152.325
747.03             152.325
747.04             152.325
748.01             152.340
748.02             152.341
748.03             152.342
748.04             152.343
748.05             152.344
748.06             152.345
748.07             152.346
749.01             152.086
749.02             152.087
750.01             152.270
750.02             152.271
750.03             152.272
750.04             152.273
750.05             152.274
750.06             152.275
750.07             152.276
750.08             152.277
750.09             152.278
750.10             152.279
750.11             152.280
750.12             152.281
750.13             152.282
750.14             152.283
750.15             152.284
750.16             152.285
750.17             152.286
750.18             152.287
750.19             152.288
750.20             152.289
750.21             152.290
750.22             152.291
750.23             152.292
750.24             152.293
750.25             152.294
750.26             152.295
750.27             152.296
750.28             152.297
750.29             152.298
750.30             152.299
750.31             152.300
750.32             152.301
750.33             152.302
750.34             152.303
751.01             152.100
751.02             152.101
751.03             152.102
751.04             152.103
752.01             152.115
752.02             152.116
752.03             152.117
752.04             152.118
753.01             152.130
753.02             152.131
753.03             152.132
753.04             152.133
753.05             152.134
754.01             152.145
754.02             152.146
754.03             152.147
754.04             152.148
755.01             152.160
755.02             152.161
755.03             152.162
755.04             152.163
756.01             152.175
756.02             152.176
756.04             152.178
757.01             152.190
757.02             152.191
757.03             152.192
757.04             152.193
758.01             152.205
758.02             152.206
758.03             152.207
758.04             152.208
759.01             152.220
759.02             152.221
759.03             152.222
759.04             152.223
760.01             152.235
760.02             152.236
760.03             152.237
760.04             152.238
761.01             152.250
761.02             152.251
761.03             152.252
761.04             152.253
780.01             153.01
780.02             153.03
780.03             153.04
780.04             153.05
780.05             153.20
780.06             153.21
780.07             153.22
780.08             153.23
780.09             153.23
780.10             153.24
780.11             153.24
780.12             153.25
780.13             153.27
780.14             153.27
780.15             153.29
780.16             153.26
780.17             153.02
780.18             153.30
780.19             153.28
820.01             150.01
820.02             150.02
822.01             150.03
822.02             150.04
824.01             150.05
824.02             150.06
842.04             94.99
900.01             94.20
900.02             94.21
900.03             94.22
900.04             94.23
900.05             94.24
900.07             94.25
900.08             94.99
900.09             94.99
App. 1             152.412
App. 2             152.412
App. 3             152.412
App. 4             152.412
App. 5             152.412
App. 6             152.412
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        9-17-1979   TSO, Table II
-        3-7-1988    TSO, Table II
96-01    4-17-1996   TSO, Table I
96-02    10-15-1996  TSO, Table I
98-01    - -         TSO, Table II
99-01    3-15-1999   TSO, Table I
99-02    4-5-1999    TSO, Table I
04-05    - -         152.292
01-01    1-8-2001    130.999
                     92.15 –
02-01    1- -2002    92.17,
                     92.99
01-03    2-18-2002   TSO, Table I
02-02    6-3-2002    51.15
02-03    11-18-2002  152.177
02-04    11-18-2002  152.147
03-05    6-16-2003   TSO, Table I
-        3-20-2004   152.270 –
                     152.303
05-01    2-7-2005    31.01
2006-01  4-3-2006    33.21
                     152.002,
06-02    7-17-2006   152.406,
                     152.410
                     50.45,
                     50.46,
06-03    7-17-2006   50.48,
                     50.50,
                     50.51
07-01    7-2-2007    150.07,
                     150.08
07-02    9-4-2007    91.01,
                     91.08
                     30.01,
2008-01  6-16-2008   30.04,
                     30.05,
                     30.99
2008-02  7-7-2008    93.01 –
                     93.07
2009-01  5-4-2009    Adopting Ordinance
2009-02  9-8-2009    TSO, Table II
10-01    2-1-2010    33.04
2011-1   7-11-2011   94.01 –
                     94.07
                     150.01,
2011-2   7-11-2011   150.03,
                     150.05,
                     150.07
12-01    3-5-2012    36.04
2013-02  9-3-2013    53.01 –
                     53.08
2013-03  9-3-2013    130.060,
                     130.999
2015-001 3-2-2015    152.117
2016-001 3-7-2016    52.15
        6-6-2016    33.22
-        6-6-2016    33.21
-        2-6-2017    152.406
-        6-5-2017    52.15
-        9-10-2018   73.10
-        11-4-2019   130.060
-        3-2-2020    111.01 –
                     111.11
2020-2   7-13-2020   72.01
2021-001 4-12-2021   52.15
2022-01  4-4-2022    130.032,
                     130.057
                     94.20 –
2023-01  8-7-2023    94.25,
                     94.99
                    
 
 
