IMLAY CITY, MICHIGAN
CHARTER
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 1
Name of Boundaries
   Section
1.1   Name and Boundaries
Chapter 2
Municipal Powers
   Section
2.1   General Powers
   Section
2.2   Further Definition of Powers
   Section
2.3   Further Definition of Powers
   Section
2.4   Intergovernmental Contracts
   Section
2.5   Outside Fire Protection
Chapter 3
Elections
   Section
3.1   Election Districts; Voting Precincts
   Section
3.2   Qualification of Electors
   Section
3.3   Election Procedures
   Section
3.4   Election Dates
   Section
3.5   Elective Officers and Terms of Office
   Section
3.6   Nominations
   Section
3.7   Approval of Petitions
   Section
3.8   Public Inspection of Petitions
   Section
3.9   Election Commission
   Section
3.10   Election Inspectors
   Section
3.11   Notice of Election
   Section
3.12   Voting Hours
   Section
3.13   Form of Ballot
   Section
3.14   Special Elections
   Section
3.15   Canvass of Votes
   Section
3.16   Recount
   Section
3.17   Recall
   Section
3.18   Tie Vote
   Section
3.19   Absentee Ballot
Chapter 4
Organization of Government
   Section
4.1   The Commission:
   Section
4.2   Remuneration of Members of the Commission
   Section
4.3   Selection of Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem
   Section
4.4   Duties of Mayor
   Section
4.5   City Manager
   Section
4.6   Functions of the City Manager
   Section
4.7   Other Administrative Officers
   Section
4.8   Appointment of Administrative Officers and Employees of the City
   Section
4.9   Appointment of Other Officers, Heads of Department, and Employees
   Section
4.10   Duties of Administrative Officers
   Section
4.11   City Treasurer
   Section
4.12   City Officers and Employees Benefits
Chapter 5
General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel of the City
   Section
5.1   Eligibility for Office in City
   Section
5.2   Residence Requirements for Appointive Officers
   Section
5.3   Nepotism
   Section
5.4   Vacancies in Office
   Section
5.5   Removals from Office
   Section
5.6   Resignations
   Section
5.7   Filling Vacancies
   Section
5.8   No Change in Term of Office or Compensation
   Section
5.9   Compensation of Employees and Officers
   Section
5.10   Oath of Office and Bond
   Section
5.11   Surety Bonds
   Section
5.12   Delivery of Office
Chapter 6
Functions of the Commission
   Section
6.1   Public Health and Safety
   Section
6.2   Police Department
   Section
6.3   Fire Department
   Section
6.4   Ambulance Service
   Section
6.5   Health
   Section
6.6   Meetings of the Commission
   Section
6.7   Investigations
   Section
6.8   Restriction on the Commission
Chapter 7
City Legislation
   Section
7.1   Ordinance Enactment
   Section
7.2   Penalties
   Section
7.3   Publication of Ordinances
   Section
7.4   Special Procedure on Vote on Certain Commission Actions
   Section
7.5   Technical Codes
   Section
7.6   Franchise and Contracts
   Section
7.7   Compilation
   Section
7.8   Initiative and Referendum
   Section
7.9   Petitions
   Section
7.10   Commission Procedure
   Section
7.11   Submission to Electors
   Section
7.12   Ordinance Suspended
Chapter 8
General Finance
   Section
8.1   Fiscal Year
   Section
8.2   Budget Procedure
   Section
8.3   Budget Document
   Section
8.4   Budget Hearing
   Section
8.5   Adoption of Budget, Tax Limit
   Section
8.6   Transfer of Appropriations
   Section
8.7   Budget Control
   Section
8.8   Depository
   Section
8.9   Independent Audit
Chapter 9
Taxation
   Section
9.1   Power to Tax and Secure Revenue
   Section
9.2   Subjects of Taxation
   Section
9.3   Assessment
   Section
9.4   Time for Making Assessment Rolls
   Section
9.5   Board of Review
   Section
9.6   Meeting of Board of Review
   Section
9.7   Organization and Functions of the Board of Review
   Section
9.8   Endorsement of Roll - Validity
   Section
9.9   Clerk to Certify Levy
   Section
9.10   City Tax Roll
   Section
9.11   Tax Roll Certified for Collection
   Section
9.12   Taxes Lien on Property
   Section
9.13   Taxes Due: Notification
   Section
9.14   Collection of City Taxes
   Section
9.15   Delinquent Tax Roll to County Treasurer
   Section
9.16   Protection of City Lien
   Section
9.17   
Chapter 10
Borrowing Power
   Section
10.1   Grant of Authority to Borrow
   Section
10.2   Limits of Borrowing Powers
   Section
10.3   Vote of Electors Required
   Section
10.4   Preparation and Record of Bonds
   Section
10.5   Unissued Bonds
   Section
10.6   Installment Payment Contracts
Chapter 11
Public Improvements, Contracts, Special Assessments
   Section
11.1   City May Perform Public Work
   Section
11.2   Purchasing and Contractual Procedure
   Section
11.3   General Powers Relative to Special Assessments
   Section
11.4   Cost of Acquired Property Added
   Section
11.5   Additional Assessments, Refunds
   Section
11.6   Lien in Collection of Special Assessments
   Section
11.7   Procedure to be Fixed by Ordinance
   Section
11.8   Contested Assessments
   Section
11.9   Special Assessment Accounts
Chapter 12
Municipally Owned Utilities
   Section
12.1   General Powers Respecting Utilities
   Section
12.2   Management of Municipally Owned Utilities
   Section
12.3   Rates
   Section
12.4   Utility Rates and Charges - Collection
   Section
12.5   Disposal of Utility Plants and Property
   Section
12.6   Utility Accounts
Chapter 13
Public Utility Franchises
   Section
13.1   Granting of Public Utility Franchises
   Section
13.2   Conditions of Public Utility Franchise
   Section
13.3   Regulation of Rates
   Section
13.4   Use of Public Places by Utilities
Chapter 14
Miscellaneous
   Section
14.1   Advisory Committees or Boards
   Section
14.2   Notice to City of Claim for Injuries
   Section
14.3   Publication and Mailing of Notices
   Section
14.4   No Estoppe by Representation
   Section
14.5   City Records
   Section
14.6   Prior City Ordinances and Regulations
   Section
14.7   Headings
   Section
14.8   Effect of Illegality of Any Part of Charter
   Section
14.9   Amendments
   Section
14.10   Definitions and Interpretations
   Section
14.11   Sunday and Holidays
   Section
14.12   Penalties for Misconduct in Office
Chapter 15
Schedule
   Section
15.1   Election on Charter
   Section
15.2   Form of Ballot
   Section
15.3   Effective Date
   Section
15.4   First City Commission
   Section
15.5   Interim
   Section
15.6   Status of Schedule Chapter
Resolution of Adoption
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of Imlay City, by virtue of the authority of the
Constitution and Public Act 279 of 1909, do hereby ordain and establish this
home rule charter for the Village of Imlay City.
CHAPTER 1: NAME OF BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1 Name and Boundaries:
   The name of this City shall be the City of Imlay City. It shall include
within its limits the territory hereinafter described, together with such
territory as may from time to time be annexed thereto, and less such territory
as may from time to time be detached therefrom, in accordance with statute:
      The South three-fourths (3/4) of Section 17, and the North one-half (1/2)
of Section 20, all in Town 7 North, Range 12 East, Lapeer County, Michigan.
CHAPTER 2: MUNICIPAL POWERS
Section 2.1 General Powers:
   Unless otherwise provided or limited in this charter, the City and its
officers shall possess and be vested with any and all powers, privileges and
immunities, expressed or implied, which cities and their officers are, or
hereafter may be permitted to exercise or to provide for in their charters
under statute and constitution, including all powers, privileges and immunities
which cities are, or may be, permitted to provide in their charters under the
Constitution and statute, including all the powers, privileges and immunities
granted to cities and their officers by Public Act 3 of 1909 as amended, as
fully and completely as though their powers, privileges and immunities were
specifically enumerated and provided for in this charter, and in no case shall
any enumeration of particular powers, privileges or immunities herein be held
to be exclusive.
   The city and its officers shall have power to exercise all municipal powers
in the management and control of municipal property and in the administration
of the municipal government, whether such powers be herein expressly enumerated
or not; to do any act to advance the interest of the city, the good government
and prosperity of the municipality and its inhabitants; to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers
and all other powers vested by the constitution in cities, except where
forbidden, or where the subject is covered exclusively by a general law.
Section 2.2 Further Definition of Powers:
   In addition to the powers possessed by the City under the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Michigan, and those set forth throughout this Charter,
the City shall have power with respect to and may, by ordinance or other lawful
acts of its officers, provide for the following subject to any specific
limitation placed thereon by this Charter:
   (a)   The regulation of trades, occupations, and amusements within its
boundaries including the sale of intoxication liquors and the number of
licenses to be issued therefor; and for the prohibition of such trades,
occupations, and amusements as are detrimental to the health, morals or welfare
of its inhabitants;
   (b)   The establishment and vacation of streets, alleys, public ways and
other public places and the use, regulation, improvement and control of the
surface of such streets, alleys, public ways and other public places and of the
space above and beneath them.
   (c)   The acquisition by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction,
or in any manner permitted by statute, of private property of every type and
nature for public use, which property may be located within or without the
County of Lapeer and which may be required for or incidental to the present or
future exercise of the purposes, powers, and duties of the city, either
proprietary or otherwise;
   (d)   For the maintenance, development, operation, leasing and disposal of
city property subject to any restrictions placed thereon by statute or this
charter; provided, specifically, that if it shall become necessary to take and
appropriate private property for the public uses or purposes specifically in
this section, the right to occupy and hold the same and the ownership therein
and thereto, may be acquired by the city in the manner and with like effect, as
provided by the general laws of this state relating to the taking of private
property for public use in cities and villages, including Chapter XIII of
Public Act 3 of 1895;
   (e)   The selling and delivering of water, heat, power and light within and
without its corporate limits in an amount not to exceed that permitted by
statute and the Constitution;
   (f)   The use upon the payment of reasonable compensation, by others than
the owners, of property located in the streets, alleys, and public places and
used in the operation of a public utility;
   (g)   The use, control and regulation of streams, water and water courses
within its boundaries, but not so as to conflict with the laws or actions
thereunder where a navigable stream is bridged or dammed;
   (h)   The enforcement of all such local, police, sanitary and other
regulations as are not in conflict with the general laws;
   (i)   The regulating the use, occupancy, sanitation and parking of house
trailers within the city, and the right of the city to so regulate any house
trailer shall not be abrogated because of any detachment thereof from its
wheels or because of placing it on, or attaching it to the ground by means of
any temporary or permanent foundation or in any manner whatsoever;
   (j)   The acquiring, establishment, operation, extension and maintenance of
facilities for the storage and parking of vehicles within its corporate limits,
including the fixing and collection of charges for service thereof on a public
utility basis, and for such purpose to acquire by gift, purchase, condemnation
or otherwise the land necessary therefor;
   (k)   Regulating, restricting and limiting the number and location of oil
and gasoline stations and storage in bulk plants;
   (l)   Establishing districts or zones within which use of land and
structures, the height, the area, the size and location of buildings and
required open spaces for light and ventilation of such buildings, and the
density of population may be regulated by ordinance in accordance with
statutory provisions governing zoning;
   (m)   Licensing, regulating, restricting and limiting the number and
location of advertising signs or displays and billboards within the city;
   (n)   The preventing of injury or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city
from anything which is dangerous, offensive, or unhealthful, and for the
preventing and abating of nuisances and punishing those occasioning them or
neglecting or refusing to abate, discontinue or remove the same;
   (o)   The regulating of airports located within its boundaries and, for the
purpose of promoting and preserving the public peace, safety and welfare,
controlling and regulating the use of the air above the city by aircraft of all
types;
   (p)   The requiring, as a condition of approving plats of land or premises
hereafter laid out, divided or platted into streets and alleys within the city,
that all streets shown on said plat be graded and graveled or otherwise
improved, that all ditches, drains and culverts necessary to make such streets
usable be constructed, and that cement sidewalks be constructed in the proper
places, all in accordance with city specifications. The Commission may accept a
bond conditioned upon the installation of such of the foregoing improvements as
it requires within such time as it determines;
   (q)   The regulating and control of the collection and disposal of garbage
and rubbish within its boundaries;
   (r)   The requiring of an owner of real property within the city to maintain
sidewalks abutting on such property, and if the owner fails to comply with such
requirements or if the owner is unknown, to construct and maintain such
sidewalks and assess the cost thereof against the abutting property in
accordance with
Chapter 11;
   (s)   The requiring of an owner of real property within the city to abate
public hazards and nuisances which are dangerous to the health or safety of
inhabitants of the city within a reasonable time after the Commission notifies
him that such hazard or nuisance exists, and if the owner fails to comply with
such requirements, or if the owner is unknown, to abate such hazard or nuisance
and assess the cost thereof against such property in accordance with
Chapter 11;
   (t)   The compelling of owners of real property within the city to keep
sidewalks abutting upon their property clear from snow, ice or other
obstructions, and if the owner fails to comply with such requirements; to
remove such snow, ice or other obstructions and assess the cost thereof against
the abutting property in accordance with Section
11.6;
   (u)   The control over all trees, shrubs and plants in the public streets,
highways, parks or other public places in the city, all dead and diseased trees
on private property and trees on private property overhanging the street,
sidewalk or public places, and the removal thereof and assess the cost thereof
against the abutting property in accordance with Section
11.6;
Section 2.3 Further Definition of Powers:
   In accordance with the authority granted in Section 25 of Public Act 279 of
1909 as amended, powers granted which are not in conflict with the provisions
of this Charter, are hereby adopted as part of this Charter by reference
thereto, but the city shall not be subject to any limitations or restrictions
of said Act except as provided in this Charter.
Section 2.4 Intergovernmental Contracts:
   The city shall have the power to join with any governmental unit or agency,
or with any number or combination thereof, by contract or otherwise as may be
permitted by law, to have performed (a) jointly, or (b) by one or more of them
for or on behalf of the other or others, or by any other person, firm or
corporation, any function which is permitted to be so performed by law by such
governmental unit or agency.
Section 2.5 Outside Fire Protection:
   In the exercise of the powers contained in Section
2.1, the Commission shall have the right to contract with persons, firms,
corporations or governing bodies to furnish fire, police and ambulance services
to property and persons outside the city boundaries for a fair consideration,
if the Commission shall find that the financial interests of the city are
advanced by obtaining payments therefor; or that the prosperity of the
municipality and the inhabitants are advanced through preventing a
conflagration which might spread within the city or through protecting from
fire industrial or commercial properties at which residents of the city are
employed.
CHAPTER 3: ELECTIONS
Section 3.1 Election Districts; Voting Precincts:
   The City shall constitute one ward and two voting precincts, except that the
Election Commission may establish additional precincts not in excess of the
number required by law. The Election Commission shall fix the location of the
polling places.
Section 3.2 Qualification of Electors:
   The residents of the city having the qualification of electors in the State
of Michigan shall be electors of the city.
Section 3.3 Election Procedures:
   The election of all city officers shall be on a non-partisan basis. The
general election statutes shall apply to and control, as near as may be, all
procedures relating to registration and election except as such statutes relate
to political parties or partisan procedures and except as otherwise provided in
this Charter.
Section 3.4 Election Dates:
   A regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in May in each odd-numbered year.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 3.5 Elective Officers and Terms of Office:
   The elective officers of the City shall be a City Commission of 7 members,
one of whom shall in turn be elected by the commission as City Mayor. At each
regular city election, four commissioners shall be elected on a single ballot.
Each elector shall be entitled to vote for not more than four candidates. The
three candidates receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected for a
term of four years and the candidate receiving the fourth highest number of
votes shall be elected for a term of two years, all such terms shall commence
at the first regular or special meeting following the certification of the
election results.
(Amended 11-5-20)
Section 3.6 Nominations:
   The method of nomination of the elective officers shall be by petition
signed by not less than twenty-five nor more than fifty qualified electors of
the city. No person shall sign his or her name to a greater number of petitions
for office than there will be persons elected to said office at said election.
Where the signature of any individual appears on more petitions than he or she
is so permitted to sign, such signatures shall be counted only to the extent he
or she is so permitted to sign in the order of the respective dates of filing
the petitions containing such signatures.
   Nominating petitions shall be filed with the City Clerk by 4:00 p.m. on the
fifteenth Tuesday preceding the election. The Clerk shall publish notice of the
last day so permitted for filing petitions at least one week before, and not
more than three weeks before, such last day.
   The form of petition shall be substantially as that designated by the
Secretary of State for the nomination of non-partisan judicial officers. A
supply of official petition forms shall be provided by the Clerk.
(Amended 11-5-20)
Section 3.7 Approval of Petitions:
   The Clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform with the form
provided and maintained by him or her and which, considered together, contain
the required number of valid signatures for candidates having those
qualifications required for elective office by this charter. When a petition is
filed by persons other than the person whose name appears thereon as candidate,
it may be accepted only when accompanied by the written consent of the
candidate. The Clerk shall, forthwith after the filing of a petition, notify in
writing any candidate whose petition is then known not to meet the requirements
of this charter, but the failure to so notify any candidate shall in no way
prevent a final determination that the petition does not meet such
requirements.
   Within three days after the last day for filling petitions, the Clerk shall
make his final determination as to the validity and sufficiency of each
nomination petition and whether or not the candidate has the qualifications
required for office by this charter and shall write his determinations thereof
on the face of the petition. The Clerk shall immediately notify in writing the
candidate whose name appears thereon of his or her determination. Such notice
to any candidate whose petition is found invalid or insufficient shall be
delivered by personal messenger if possible.
   The names of the candidates who file valid and sufficient nomination
petitions shall be certified by the Clerk to the Election Commission to be
placed upon the ballot for the next subsequent regular city election or the
next special election for the filling of vacancies in office, as the case may
be.
   Any candidate may withdraw by filing a signed statement to such effect with
the city clerk not later than 4:00 P.M. on the third day following the deadline
for filing the original petition.
(Amended 11-5-20)
Section 3.8 Public Inspection of Petitions:
   All nomination petitions shall be open to public inspection in the office of
the Clerk beginning five (5) days after the final filing date for such
petitions.
Section 3.9 Election Commission:
   An election commission is hereby created, consisting of the clerk and two
members of the Commission who are not candidates for office. The Clerk shall be
chairman. The commission shall have charge of all activities and duties
required of election commissions in cities by state law and this charter,
relating to the conduct of electors in the city. The compensation of election
personnel shall be determined in advance by the Commission. In any case where
election procedure is in doubt, the election commission shall prescribe the
procedure to be followed.
Section 3.10 Election Inspectors:
   The election commission shall before each election appoint for each precinct
of the City a board of inspectors of election consisting of not less than three
qualified electors, and shall fix their compensation. Election inspectors shall
have qualifications which comply with the state law.
Section 3.11 Notice of Election:
   Notice of the time and place of holding any City election and of the
officers to be elected and the questions and propositions to be voted upon
shall be given by the Clerk by publishing such notice not less than ten days
prior to such election.
Section 3.12 Voting Hours:
   The polls of all elections shall be opened and closed at the time prescribed
by statute for the opening and closing of polls at state elections.
Section 3.13 Form of Ballot:
   The form, printing and numbering of ballots in all city elections shall
conform as nearly as may be to that prescribed by statute, except that no party
designation or emblem shall appear. In all elections, the names of qualified
candidates shall be rotated systematically in the manner prescribed by statute
for rotation of names.
Section 3.14 Special Elections:
   Special city elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
Commission at least forty-five days in advance of such election with the
concurrence of the County Election Scheduling Committee, or when required by
this charter or statute. Any resolution calling a special election shall set
forth the purpose of such election. The Commission shall not call more special
elections within any year than the number permitted by statute.
Section 3.15 Canvass of Votes:
   In accordance with State Law the Lapeer County Board of Canvassers shall
serve all city elections.
Section 3.16 Recount:
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office or upon any
proposition may be had in accordance with election statutes. Unless otherwise
required by statute, (1) a recount petition shall be filed with the Clerk by
five o'clock in the afternoon on the second full day after the board of
canvassers has made its official report, (2) any counter-petition shall be
filed by five o'clock in the afternoon on the next full day thereafter, and (3)
no officer shall be qualified to take office until the final determination of
any recount of the votes cast for such office. In case of recount a written
notice of such recount shall be filed with each candidate on the ballot.
Section 3.17 Recall:
   Any elected official may be recalled from office by the electors of the city
in the manner provided by statute. A vacancy created by such recall shall be
filled in the manner prescribed by statute.
Section 3.18 Tie Vote:
   If, at any city election, there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two (2) or more persons having received an equal number of votes,
then the Commission shall name a date for the appearance of such person for the
purpose of determining the election of such candidate by lot as provided by
state law. Should any person or persons fail or refuse to appear, in person or
by representative, to determine the result of any tie election at the time and
place named by the Commission, such determination shall be made by lot in his
or their absence and under the supervision of the Commission. Such
determination shall, in any event, be final.
Section 3.19 Absentee Ballot:
   The electors of the City shall be entitled to vote by absentee ballot at any
city election under the circumstances and in the manner provided by law.
CHAPTER 4: ORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT
Section 4.1 The Commission:
   There shall be a Commission of seven members, one of whom shall serve as
Mayor. The commission shall constitute the legislative and governing body of
the city and shall have power and authority, except as otherwise provided in
this charter or by statute, to exercise all powers conferred upon or possessed
by the city and shall have the power and authority to adopt such laws,
ordinances and resolutions as it shall deem proper in the exercise thereof. In
all cases where the word “Commission” is used in this charter, the same shall
be synonymous with any other term used in any statute or federal law in
referring to municipal legislative or governing bodies.
Section 4.2 Remuneration of Members of the Commission:
   The City Commission shall, by resolution, establish the salary that the
Mayor receives and that each City Commissioner shall receive for his or her
services to the City per meeting actually attended by him or her. The Mayor and
Commissioners shall be paid semi-annually and such payments shall constitute
the only salary or remuneration which may be paid for services performed by the
Mayor or any Commissioner for the discharge of any official duty for or on
behalf of the City during their term of office. Upon authorization of the
Commission, reasonable expense may be allowed when actually incurred on behalf
of the City.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 4.3 Selection of Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem:
   The Commission shall at the first regular or special meeting following the
certification of the election results, elect one (1) of its members to serve as
Mayor and one (1) to serve as Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall perform
the duties of the Mayor when on account of absence from the city, disability,
or otherwise, the Mayor is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his/her
office, and in case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until such vacancy is
filled by the Commission. The Mayor Pro Tem shall preside over the meetings of
the Commission at the call of the Mayor. In the event of a vacancy occurring in
the office of Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, the Commission shall appoint one of its
elected members to fill such vacancy.
(Amended 11-17-20)
Section 4.2 Duties of Mayor:
   The duties of the Mayor shall be as follows:
   (a)   Insofar as required by statute, and for all ceremonial purposes, he
shall be the executive head of the city;
   (b)   He shall have a voice and vote in the proceedings of the Commission
equal with that of the other members of the Commission, but shall have no veto
power. He shall be the presiding officer of the Commission.
   (c)   He shall be the conservator of the peace and may in emergencies
exercise within the city the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress riot
and disorder, and shall have the authority to command the assistance of all
able-bodied citizens to aid in the enforcement of the ordinances of the city
and to suppress riot and disorder.
   (d)   He shall execute or authenticate by his signature such instruments as
the commission, this charter or any statute or law of the United States shall
require.
   (e)   He shall exercise only such powers as this charter or the commission
shall specifically confer upon him, except as may be required by statute.
Section 4.5 City Manager:
   All administrative powers, duties, and functions of the city shall be vested
in the City Manager, except as otherwise provided in this charter. He shall be
appointed by the Commission on the basis of training and ability in the work
which would qualify him for the position of City Manager, and shall hold office
at the pleasure of the Commission. He need not be a resident of the city at the
time of his appointment but shall, unless excused by the Commission, become a
resident of the City within ninety (90) days after his appointment and so
remain throughout his tenure of office. The City Manager, may, with the
approval of the Commission designate an administrative officer or employee of
the city to perform the duties of the City Manager during his temporary absence
or incapacity. The Commission shall designate a qualified person to perform the
duties of City Manager during a vacancy in the office. No person acting as City
Manager in a temporary capacity, whether during the absence or disability of
the City Manager or during a vacancy in that office, shall make any change in
the administrative officers of the City without the consent of the Commission.
No person who holds or has held any elective city office shall be eligible for
appointment as City Manager or acting City Manager, nor shall any such person
perform the duties of the City Manager during a vacancy in that office until
two (2) years have elapsed following the expiration of the term for which he
was elected.
Section 4.6 Functions of the City Manager:
   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
government. He shall carry out the policies formulated by the Commission. He is
charged with the responsibilities of supervision and management of all of the
services of the city and with responsibility for the enforcement of the
ordinances of the city, this charter, and applicable laws of the State. He
shall make the reports to the Commission required by this Charter, and such
others as may be required of him by ordinance or by resolution of the
Commission, and, in addition thereto, any which he may deem advisable. He shall
prepare the budget of the city for consideration by the Commission, as in the
charter provided, and upon the adoption thereof by the Commission, as in this
charter provided; he shall administer the budget so adopted and keep the
Commission at all times informed as to the financial affairs of the city. He
shall have the right to take part in the discussion of all matters coming
before the Commission, but shall have no vote. In addition to the duties
prescribed by this charter, he shall perform such other duties as may be
required of him by ordinance or by resolution of the Commission.
Section 4.7 Other Administrative Officers:
   In addition to the City Manager, and subordinate to him in the performance
of the duties of their several offices, except the Clerk, Treasurer and City
Attorney insofar as their duties as clerk and treasurer of, and attorney for
the Commission are concerned, the administrative officers of the City shall be
the Clerk, the Treasurer, the Assessor, the City Attorney, the Police Chief,
the Fire Chief, the Health Officer, the Ambulance Director and other officers
included in the administrative plan approved by the Commission.
Section 4.8 Appointment of Administrative Officers and Employees of the City:
   All administrative offices of the City, except the City Manager, the Clerk,
the Treasurer, the Assessor, and the City Attorney, as provided in a general
ordinance covering all the officers other than the Clerk, the Treasurer, the
Assessor, and the City Attorney, with provision in the ordinance for the
filling of vacancies by the City Manager subject to the approval of the City
Commission, said ordinance shall also fix their salaries.
   The City Manager, Treasurer, Clerk and Assessor and City Attorney shall hold
office by virtue of appointment by the Commission which body shall also set
their salaries. They shall hold offices at the pleasure of the Commission.
Section 4.9 Appointment of Other Officers, Heads of Department, and Employees:
   The City Manager shall appoint such other officers, heads of departments,
and employees as may be required by ordinance or resolution of the Commission.
Every appointment of an administrative officer shall be for an indefinite term.
Each officer or department head may name a deputy, subject to the approval of
the City Manager.
Section 4.10 Duties of Administrative Officers:
   All administrative officers of the city shall perform such duties as are
provided for such officers by state law, this charter, the city ordinance, and
the administrative directives of the City Manager. Unless the Commission shall
otherwise provide by ordinance, specifying another officer of the city, the
Clerk shall be the chief accountant and auditor of the city and he, or such
other officer as shall be so designated by the Commission shall, subject to the
direction of the City Manager, maintain a system of accounts which shall
conform to a recognized or uniform system of municipal accounts as required by
law. Each city officer shall exercise and possess all of the powers,
privileges, and immunities granted to city and township officers exercising the
same duties for cities and townships generally under the general laws of the
state.
Section 4.11 City Treasurer:
   (a)   The Treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys of the City, the
Clerk's bond, and all evidences of value or indebtedness belonging to or held
in trust by the City.
   (b)   He shall keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such manner and only
in such places as the Commission may determine, and shall report the same in
detail to the City Manager and Finance Officer.
   (c)   He shall have such powers, duties and prerogatives in regard to the
collection and custody of state, county, school district, and City taxes and
moneys as are provided by law.
   (d)   He shall perform such other duties in connection with his office as
may be required of him by law, the ordinances or resolutions of the Commission,
or by the City Manager.
Section 4.12 City Officers and Employees Benefits:
   The Commission may provide by ordinance for the merit system of personnel
management for employees in the service of the City, and may provide for a
pension system, recognized standard plan of group life, hospital, health or
accident insurance for its appointive officers and employees.
CHAPTER 5: GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL OF THE CITY
Section 5.1 Eligibility for Office in City:
   Any qualified voter who has been a resident of the City for one (1) year and
is not in default thereto, shall be eligible to hold the office of
commissioner.
   The Commission shall be the sole judge of the election and qualification of
its own members.
   All administrative officers shall be citizens of the United States.
   A City Commissioner shall not serve in any department of the City as a
salaried or hourly wage employee.
Section 5.2 Residence Requirements for Appointive Officers:
   Repealed by Resolution No. 2007-18, adopted March 6, 2007, after being
submitted to and approved by the Governor of the State of Michigan.
Section 5.3 Nepotism:
   Except and unless upon unanimous vote of the Commission, relatives by blood
or marriage of any Commissioner, or the City Manager, within the second degree
of cansanquinity or affinity, are bona fide appointive officers or employees of
the city at the time of the election of such officers or appointment of such
City Manager, such relatives shall be disqualified from holding any appointive
office or from being employed by the city during the term for which such
Commissioner, was elected, or during the tenure of office of such City Manager.
If the status of relationship between any employee of the city and any officer
of the city changes to a relationship prohibited hereby after one (1) year
following the employment of such person or election or appointment of such
officer, the provisions of this section shall not apply.
Section 5.4 Vacancies in Office:
   The office of any Commissioner including the Mayor shall be declared vacant
by the Commission before the expiration of the term of such office;
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute or by this charter as creating a
vacancy in office;
   (b)   If no person is elected to, or qualifies for, the office at the
election at which such office is to be filled;
   (c)   If he shall be found guilty by a competent tribunal of any act
constituting misconduct in office under the provisions of this charter;
   (d)   If he shall miss four consecutive regular meetings of the Commission
or twenty-five per cent of such meetings in any fiscal year of the city unless
such absence shall be excused by the commission and the reason therefor entered
in its proceedings at the time of the absence;
   (e)   If he is removed from office by the Commission in accordance with the
provisions of Section
5.5.
   The office of any member of any board or commission created by this charter
shall be declared vacant for reasons (a), (c), or (e) as listed in the
foregoing part of this section.
Section 5.5 Removals from Office:
   Removals of Commissioners (including the Mayor) and members of boards or
commissions created by this charter by the Commission shall be made for either
of the following reasons: (1) for any reason specified by statute for removal
of city officers by the Governor, (2) for any act declared by this charter to
constitute misconduct in office. Such removals by the commission shall be made
only after hearing of which such officer has been given notice by the Clerk at
least ten days in advance either personally or by delivering the same at his
last known place of residence. Such notice shall include a copy of the charges
against such officer. The hearing shall afford an opportunity to the officer,
in person or by attorney, to be heard in his defense, to cross-examine
witnesses and to present testimony. If such officer shall neglect to appear at
such hearing and answer such charges, his failure to do so may be deemed cause
for his removal. A majority vote of the members of the Commission in office at
the time, exclusive of any member whose removal is being considered, shall be
required for any such removal.
Section 5.6 Resignations:
   Resignations of elective and appointive officers shall be made in writing
and filed with the clerk and shall be acted upon by the Commission at its next
regular meeting following receipt thereof by the Clerk.
Section 5.7 Filling Vacancies:
   (a)   Vacancies in offices elective or appointive by the Commission shall be
filled in the manner provided for the original filling of such office.
   (b)   Vacancies in the office of Commissioner or Mayor shall, within sixty
days after such vacancy occurs, be filled for the unexpired term of the officer
whose office has become vacant by appointment by a majority vote of the members
of the Commission then in office of a person possessing the qualifications for
the office.
   If any such vacancy in the position of Commissioner is not so filled within
sixty days, or if three or more vacancies exist simultaneously in such
position, the Clerk shall within ten days thereafter call a special election to
be held within sixty days thereafter to fill such vacancies for the unexpired
terms of the officers whose offices have become vacant and the date thereof
approved by the County Elections Scheduling Committee.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no vacancy in an elective office shall be
filled in any manner if the term of office of the person whose office has
become vacant expires within ninety days after the vacancy occurs. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the filling of vacancies
resulting from recall.
Section 5.8 No Change in Term of Office or Compensation:
   Except by procedures provided in this charter, the terms of Commissioners
and of members of boards or commissions appointed for a definite term shall not
be shortened or extended beyond the period for which the officer was elected or
appointed, except that a Commissioner shall, after his term has expired,
continue to hold office until his successor is elected or appointed and has
qualified. Where several terms of Commissioners expire simultaneously, the
Commissioners who were elected by the highest number of votes (or any appointee
who filled his position) shall be deemed to be succeeded by the candidate who
received the highest number of votes, that Commissioner who was elected by the
second highest number of votes, by the candidate who received the second
highest number of votes, etc.
   The salary of any elective officer shall not be changed from the day he is
elected until the end of the term of office for which he was elected. No
Commissioner shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
Section 5.9 Compensation of Employees and Officers:
   The compensation of all employees and officers of the city whose
compensation is not provided for herein shall be fixed by the Commission by
ordinance within the limits of budget appropriations.
   No officers shall be paid on a fee basis. The respective salaries and
compensation of officers and employees as fixed pursuant to this charter shall
be in full for all official services of such officers or employees and shall be
in lieu of all fees, commissions and other compensation receivable by such
officers or employees for their services.
   Any such fees, commissions and other compensation shall belong to the city
and shall be collected and accounted for by such officers or employees and be
paid into the city treasury and a statement thereof filed periodically with the
Clerk.
   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the payment of necessary
bona fide expenses incurred in service in behalf of the city.
Section 5.10 Oath of Office and Bond:
   Every officer, elective or appointive, before entering upon the duties of
his office shall take the oath of office prescribed for public officers by the
Constitution and shall file the oath with the Clerk, together with any bond
required by statute, this charter or the Commission. In case of failure to
comply with the provisions of this section within ten days from the date he is
notified in writing of his election or appointment, such officer shall be
deemed to have declined the office and such office shall thereupon become
vacant unless the Commission shall, by resolution, extend the time in which
such officer may qualify.
Section 5.11 Surety Bonds.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all officers of the city whose
duties involve the custody of public property or the handling of public funds,
either by way of receipt or disbursement or both and all other officers and
employees so required by the Commission shall, before they enter upon the
duties of their respective offices, file with the city an official bond, in
such form and amount as the Commission shall direct and approve. Such official
bond of every officer and employee shall be conditioned that he will faithfully
perform the duties of his office, and will on demand deliver over to his
successor in office, or other proper officer or an agent of the city all books,
papers, moneys, effects and property belonging thereto, or appertaining to his
office, which may be in his custody as an officer or employee; and such bonds
may be further conditioned as the Commission prescribe. The official bond of
every officer whose duty it may be to receive or pay out money, besides being
conditioned as above required, shall be further conditioned that he will, on
demand, pay over or account for to the city or any proper officer or agent
thereof, all moneys received by him as such officer or employee. The
requirements of this paragraph may be met by the purchase of one of more
appropriate blanket surety bonds covering all, or a group of, city employees
and officers.
   All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums thereon
shall be paid by the city. All bonds of all officers or employees shall be
filed with the Clerk, except that any bond pertaining solely to the Clerk shall
be filed with the Mayor.
Section 5.12 Delivery of Office:
   Whenever any officer or employee shall cease to hold such office or
employment for any reason whatsoever, he shall within five days, or sooner on
demand, deliver to his successor in office or to his superior all the books,
papers, moneys, equipment owned by city and effects in his custody as such
officer or employee. Any officer violating this provision may be proceeded
against in the same manner as public officers generally for a like offense
under statute. Any employee found guilty of violating this provision by a
competent tribunal may be punished in accordance with statute.
CHAPTER 6 FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION
Section 6.1 Public Health and Safety:
   Through the established departments and agencies of the City government,
together with any such departments or agencies as may be created under
authority of this charter, the Commission shall provide for the public peace
and health and for the safety of persons and property.
Section 6.2 Police Department:
   The Commission shall maintain, within the administrative division of the
city, a city police force which shall be under the direction of the City
Manager, to enforce all laws and ordinances which are in force in the city and
to preserve peace and good order in the city.
Section 6.3 Fire Department:
   The Commission shall have power to enact such ordinances and to establish
and enforce such regulations as it shall deem necessary to guard against the
occurrence of fires in the city and to protect the property and persons of the
inhabitants of the city against damage and accident resulting therefrom. For
this purpose the Commission may establish, organize, and maintain, within the
administrative division of the city, a fire department. Provided, however, that
until otherwise provided by ordinance passed by a five-sevenths (5/7) vote of
the Commission, the fire department of the city shall be and remain as now
organized and the City Manager shall be limited in his appointment of the Fire
Chief to nominations made by the members of the fire department.
Section 6.4 Ambulance Service:
   The Commission may maintain within the administrative division of the city
an ambulance service, which shall be under the direction of the City Manager.
Section 6.5 Health:
   Repealed by Resolution No. 2007-20, adopted March 6, 2007, after being
submitted to and approved by the Governor of the State of Michigan.
Section 6.6 Meetings of the Commission:
   (a)   The Commission shall provide by resolution for the time and place of
its regular meetings and shall hold at least two (2) regular meetings each
month. If any time set for the holding of a regular meeting of the Commission
shall be a holiday then such regular meeting shall be held on the next secular
day which is not a holiday.
   (b)   Special meeting of the Commission shall be called by the Clerk on the
written request of the Mayor or of any two (2) members of the Commission, on at
least twenty-four (24) hours written notice to each member of the Commission,
designating the time, place, and purpose of any meeting and served personally
or left at his usual place of residence by the Clerk or someone designated by
him. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements for the calling of special
meetings, any special meeting of the Commission at which all members of the
Commission are present or have in writing, waived the requirement that notice
be given at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time specified for the
holding of such meeting and at which a quorum of the Commission is present,
shall be a legal meeting.
   (c)   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the
Commission unless the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting.
However, if all members of the Commission are present at any special meeting of
the Commission, then any business which might lawfully come before a regular
meeting of the Commission may be transacted at such special meeting.
   (d)   All regular and special meetings of the Commission shall be open to
the public and the rules of order of the Commission shall provide that citizens
shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard. Public notice shall be given
according to state statute. Executive sessions may be held as provided by law.
   (e)   Four (4) members of the Commission shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business at all meetings of the Commission, but, in the absence
of a quorum, the Mayor or any two (2) members may adjourn any regular or
special meeting to a later date.
   (f)   Except that there shall be no standing committees of the Commission,
the Commission shall determine its own rules and order of business and shall
keep a journal of all of its proceedings in the English language which shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Clerk. The vote upon the passage of all ordinances,
and upon the adoption of all resolutions shall be taken by “Yes” and “No” votes
and entered upon the record, except that where the vote is unanimous, it shall
only be necessary to so state. Each member of the Commission who shall be
recorded as present shall vote on all questions decided by the Commission
unless excused by the unanimous consent of the other members present. Any
citizen or taxpayer of the city shall have access to the minutes and records of
all regular and special meetings of the Commission at all reasonable times.
   (g)   The Commission may, by vote of not less than two (2) of its members,
compel the attendance of its members and other officers of the city at its
regular and special meetings and enforce orderly conduct therein; and any
member of the Commission or other officer of the City who refuses to attend
such meetings or conduct himself in an orderly manner thereof shall be deemed
guilty of misconduct in office. The Chief of Police shall serve as the
Sergeant-at-Arms of the Commission in the enforcement of the provisions of this
section.
Section 6.7 Investigations:
   The Commission, or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office or
officer of the city and to make investigations as to municipal affairs, and for
that purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the
production of books, papers and other evidence. Failure on the part of any
officer of the city to obey such subpoena or to produce books, papers, or other
evidence as ordered under the provision of this section shall constitute
misconduct in office. If such failure shall be on the part of any employee of
the city, the same shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Section 6.8 Restriction on the Commission:
   (a)   Except for the purpose of inquiry, and in case of emergency during the
temporary absence or disability of the City Manager, the Commission and its
members shall deal with the administrative service solely through the City
Manager and neither the Commission nor any member thereof shall give orders to
any subordinate of the City Manager, either publicly or privately; neither
shall any member of the Commission direct or request; (1) except for the
election of those administrative officers required to be elected by the
Commission, the appointment of any person to, or the removal of, any person
from any employment or office for which the City Manager is responsible; nor
(2) except at public meetings and in cases of letting of contracts, the
purchase of any specific materials, supplies or equipment. It is not the
intention of this provision to prevent frank discussion of the business of the
City between the City Manager and the Commission or any member of the
Commission at any time, but to prevent the personal favoritism or prejudice of
any member of the Commission from hampering the administration of the city
government as set forth in this charter.
   (b)   No member of the Commission shall vote on any question in which he has
a financial interest, other than the common public interest, or on any question
concerning his own conduct, but on all other questions each member who is
present shall vote when his name is called unless excused by the unanimous
consent of the remaining members present. Any member refusing to vote except
when not so required by this paragraph shall be guilty of misconduct in office.
CHAPTER 7: CITY LEGISLATION
Section 7.1 Ordinance Enactment:
   All legislation of the City of Imlay City shall be by ordinance or by
resolution. The word “resolution” as used in this charter shall be the official
action of the Commission in the form of a motion, and such action shall be
limited to matters required or permitted to be done by resolution by this
charter or by state or Federal law and to matters pertaining to the internal
affairs or concerns of the city government. All other acts of the Commission,
and all acts carrying a penalty for the violation thereof, shall be by
ordinance. Each ordinance shall be identified by a number and a short title.
Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed form. The
style of all ordinances passed by the Commission shall be, “The City of Imlay
City Ordains.” Except in the case of ordinances which are declared by the
Commission to be emergency ordinances, no ordinances shall be finally passed by
the Commission at the same meeting at which it is introduced. No ordinance
shall be revised, altered or amended by reference to its title only, but the
section or sections of the ordinance revised, altered or amended shall be
reenacted and published at length and all ordinances, when enacted shall be
immediately recorded by the Clerk in a book called “The Ordinance Book;” and it
shall be the duty of the Mayor and Clerk to authenticate such record by their
official signature thereon.
   An ordinance may be repealed only by an ordinance passed in the manner
provided in this section except that the ordinance to be repealed may be
referred to by its number and title only.
Section 7.2 Penalties:
   The commission shall provide in each ordinance for the punishment of those
who violate its provisions. No punishment for the violation of any City
ordinance or for the commission by any officer of the City of any act declared
by this Charter to constitute misconduct in office shall exceed a fine of Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for 90 days, or both in the
discretion of the court, except that any officer of the City found guilty of
any act declared by this Charter to constitute misconduct in office, shall, in
addition to such fine or imprisonment, or both, forfeit his office.
Section 7.3 Publication of Ordinances:
   Each ordinance passed by the Commission shall be published at least once
within fifteen (15) days after its adoption by the Commission. All ordinances
of the city shall become effective immediately upon the publication thereof,
unless a date upon which an ordinance shall become effective, which is
subsequent to the date of the publication thereof, is specifically provided in
the ordinance itself. The publication of any ordinance in full after its final
passage as a part of the published proceedings of the Commission shall
constitute publication of such ordinance as required herein.
Section 7.4 Special Procedure on Vote on Certain Commission Actions:
   (a)   Action to vacate, discontinue or abolish any highway, street, lane,
alley or other public place, or part thereof, shall be by resolution. After the
introduction of such resolution and before its final adoption, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing thereon and shall publish notice of such hearing at
least one week prior thereto.
   (b)   The following actions shall require the affirmative vote of five
members of the Commission for the effectiveness thereof;
      (1)   Vacating, discontinuing or abolishing any highway, street, lane,
alley or other public place or part thereof;
      (2)   Leasing, selling or disposing of any city-owned real estate or
interest therein;
      (3)   Condemning private property for public use;
      (4)   Creating or abolishing any office;
      (5)   Appropriating any money;
      (6)   Imposing any tax or assessment;
      (7)   Reconsidering or rescinding any vote of the Commission.
Section 7.5 Technical Codes:
   Ordinances and codes may be enacted by reference to the extent and in the
manner provided by state law and more specifically set forth in 117.3 (K)
Michigan Compiled Laws.
Section 7.6 Franchise and Contracts:
   Every ordinance or resolution granting any franchise or right to occupy or
use the streets, highways, bridges, or public places in the city for any
purpose shall be complete in the form in which it is finally passed, and remain
on file with the Clerk for public inspection for at least one (1) week before
the final passage or adoption thereof. The city shall not have power to grant
any exclusive right or privilege under the government of the City.
Section 7.7 Compilation:
   (a)   Copies of all ordinances enacted and amendments to the city charter
adopted after the effective date of this charter shall be available at the
office of the Clerk.
   (b)   Within two (2) years after the adoption of this charter and at least
once in every ten (10) years the Commission shall direct and complete the
compilation or codification and the publication of the charter and of all
ordinances of the city then in force, in loose-leaf or pamphlet form, and may
provide for a reasonable charge for copies thereof. No further publication of
any such compilation or codification shall be required for the validity
thereof. In case the compilation or codification of the ordinances of the city
shall have been maintained current and up-to-date during any ten (10) year
period, no re-compilation or re-codification of the ordinances of the city
shall be required during or at the end of such period.
   The copies of ordinances and of any compilation, code, or codes referred to
in this charter may be certified by the Clerk, and, when so certified, shall be
competent evidence in all courts and legally established tribunals as to the
matters contained therein.
Section 7.8 Initiative and Referendum:
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum on an ordinance
enacted by the Commission may be had, by a petition, as hereinafter provided.
Section 7.9 Petitions:
   An initiatory or a referendary petition shall be signed by not less than
fifteen (15) per cent of the registered electors of the city who have signed
said petition within six (6) months before the date of filing the petition with
the Clerk. Before being circulated for signatures, all such petitions may be
approved as to form by the Clerk. No such petition need be on one paper, but
may be the aggregate of two (2) or more petition papers. Each signer of a
petition shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil, and shall place
thereon, after his name, the date and his place of residence by street and
number, or by other customary designation. To each petition paper there shall
be attached a sworn affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of
signers thereto and that each signature of the person whose name it purports to
be, and that it was made in the presence of the affiant. Such petition shall be
filed with the Clerk who shall, within ten (10) days, canvass the signatures
thereon to determine the sufficiency thereof. If found to contain an
insufficient number of signatures of registered electors of the city or to be
improper as to form or compliance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall notify forthwith the person filing such petition, and ten (10) days
from such notification shall be allowed for the filing of supplemental petition
papers. When found sufficient and proper, the Clerk shall present the petition
to the Commission at its next regular meeting.
Section 7.10 Commission Procedure:
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the Clerk, the
Commission shall within thirty (30) days, either;
   (a)   If it be an initiatory petition, adopt the ordinance as submitted in
the petition or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the city;
or
   (b)   If it be a referendary petition, repeal the ordinance to which the
petition refers or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the
city;
Section 7.11 Submission to Electors:
   Should the Commission decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it
shall be submitted at the next election held in the city for any other purpose,
or, in the discretion of the Commission, at a special election. The result
shall be determined by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon, except
in cases where otherwise required by the constitution or laws of the State of
Michigan.
Section 7.12 Ordinance Suspended:
   The certification by the Clerk of the sufficiency of a referendary petition
within thirty (30) days after passage of the ordinance to which such petition
refers shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance in question
pending repeal by the Commission or final determination by the electors as the
case may be. An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory
proceedings may not be amended or repealed by the Commission for a period of
two (2) years after the date of the election at which it was adopted. Should
two (2) or more ordinances adopted at the same election, have conflicting
provisions, the one receiving the highest vote shall prevail as to those
provisions.
CHAPTER 8: GENERAL FINANCE
Section 8.1 Fiscal Year:
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July and end on
the 30th day of June of the following year. Such year shall constitute the
budget year of the city government.
Section 8.2 Budget Procedure:
   On or before the first Monday in March, each city officer shall submit to
the City Manager an itemized estimate of the expenditures for the next fiscal
year, for the department or activities under his control. The City Manager
shall prepare a complete itemized budget proposal for the next fiscal year and
shall submit it to the Commission at its first meeting in April.
Section 8.3 Budget Document:
   The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year. It shall include at least the following information:
   (a)   Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for each department
and office of the city showing the expenditures for corresponding items for the
current and last preceding fiscal year, with reasons for increases and
decreases recommended, as compared with appropriations for the current year:
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the city, showing
the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any.
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated income of the city from sources
other than taxes and borrowing, with a comparative statement of the amounts
received by the city from each of the same or similar sources for the last
preceding and current fiscal year;
   (d)   A statement of the estimated balance or deficit, as the case may be,
for the end of the current fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which, together
with income from other sources, will be necessary to meet the proposed
expenditures and commitments of the city government during the ensuing year.
   (f)   Such other supporting schedules as the Commission may deem necessary.
Section 8.4 Budget Hearing:
   A copy of the budget proposal shall be on file and available to the public
in the office of the Clerk during office hours for a period of not less than
one (1) week prior to the adoption of the budget by the Commission. Notice of
the requirement that the budget proposal is so required to be filed shall be
published by the Clerk in a legal newspaper having a bona fide list of paying
subscribers not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the adoption of the budget
by the Commission: Provided, however, that failure to give such notice shall
not invalidate the adoption of any budget.
Section 8.5 Adoption of Budget, Tax Limit:
   Not later than the second Monday in May, the Commission shall, by
resolution, adopt the budget for the next fiscal year and shall, in such
resolution make an appropriation of the money needed for municipal purposes
during the ensuing year of the City and provide for a levy of the amount
necessary to be raised by taxes upon real and personal property for municipal
purposes, which levy shall not exceed two (2) percent of the assessed valuation
of all real and personal property subject to taxation in the City. The levy so
provided shall be known and referred to as the Charter tax rate of the City of
Imlay City and shall be subject to all provisions of State law and the Michigan
Constitution pertaining thereto.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 8.6 Transfer of Appropriations:
   After the budget has been adopted, no money shall be drawn from the treasury
of the city nor shall any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred,
except pursuant to the budget appropriations. The Commission may transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from one
department, fund, or agency to another. The balance in any appropriation which
has not been encumbered at the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the
general fund and be reappropriated during the next fiscal year.
Section 8.7 Budget Control:
   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and more
often if required by the Commission, the City Manager shall submit to the
Commission data showing the relation between the estimated and actual income
and expenses to date; and if it shall appear that the income is less than
anticipated, the Commission may reduce appropriations, except amounts required
for debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep
expenditures within the cash income.
Section 8.8 Depository:
   The Commission shall designate the depository or depositories for city
funds, and shall provide for the regular deposit of all city moneys. The
Commission shall provide for such security for city deposits as is authorized
or permitted by the general laws of the state, except that personal surety
bonds shall not be deemed proper security.
Section 8.9 Independent Audit:
   An independent audit shall be made of all city accounts at least annually
and more frequently if deemed necessary by the Commission. Such audit shall be
made by an independent accountant experienced in public accounting to be
selected by the Commission.
CHAPTER 9: TAXATION
Section 9.1 Power to Tax and Secure Revenue:
   In order to carry out the purposes, powers, and duties of the city
government established by this charter, the city may assess, levy, and collect
taxes, rents, tolls, and excise, or specific taxes including all powers now or
hereafter granted to cities by the State of Michigan.
Section 9.2 Subjects of Taxation:
   The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same
as for state, county, and school purposes under the general law. Except as
otherwise provided by this charter, city taxes shall be levied, collected, and
returned in the manner provided by state law.
Section 9.3 Assessment:
   Unless otherwise provided by state law, the first day of January in each
year shall be the assessment day for both real and personal property in the
city.
Section 9.4 Time for Making Assessment Rolls:
   The Assessor shall make and complete an assessment roll of the City in the
manner and form provided in the general tax law of the State, not later than
the last Monday in February of each year, on which date he or she shall file
such roll with the Clerk for public inspection during the normal office hours
of the Clerk until the date of the convening of the Board of Review, on which
date the Clerk shall turn such assessment roll over to the Board of Review.
Section 9.5 Board of Review:
   The Board of Review shall be appointed by the Commission and shall be
comprised of three (3) persons having the qualifications required by this
charter for officers of the city, who are tax payers to the city, and have been
residents of the city for not less than three (3) years. In the first instance,
the full Board shall be appointed, one (1) to serve for a term of one (1) year,
one (1) to serve for a term of two (2) years, and one (1) to serve for a term
of three (3) years. Thereafter, the Commission shall, annually, the last
Commission meeting in March appoint one (1) member of the Board to serve for a
full term of three (3) years. The Commission shall set the compensation of the
Board of Review.
Section 9.6 Meeting of Board of Review:
   The Board of Review shall convene on such dates and times and at such place
as shall, by resolution, be designated by the Commission and shall continue its
session from day to day for the purpose of considering and correcting the roll
for as many days as directed and designated by the Commission. The Board shall
remain in session during such hours as the Commission may designate.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 9.7 Organization and Functions of the Board of Review:
   On the first day of its meeting in each year, the Board of Review shall
elect one of its members chairman. The Assessor shall be Secretary of the Board
and shall attend its meetings with the privilege of participating therein, but
without the right to vote upon any decision of the Board. It shall be the duty
of the Assessor to keep a permanent record of all proceedings, and to enter
therein all resolutions and decisions of the Board. Such record shall be filed
with the Clerk within thirty (30) days after the adjournment of the Board. A
majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
   The members of said Board shall take the constitutional oath of office which
shall be filed with the Clerk. For the purpose of reviewing and correcting
assessments, the Board of Review shall have the same powers and perform like
duties in all respects as are by the general tax law conferred upon and
required of boards of review in townships, in reviewing assessments in
townships for township, state and county taxes. It shall hear the complaints of
all persons considering themselves aggrieved by assessments, and if it shall
appear that any person or property has been wrongfully assessed, or omitted
from the roll, the Board shall correct the roll in such manner as it shall deem
just. In all cases, the assessment roll shall be reviewed according to the
facts existing on the assessment day and no change of the status of any
property after said day shall be considered by the Board in making its
decisions. Except as otherwise provided by state law, no person other than the
Board of Review shall make or authorize any change up on or additions or
corrections to the assessment roll.
Section 9.8 Endorsement of Roll - Validity:
   After the Board shall complete its review of the assessment roll, and on or
before the first Commission meeting in March in each year, a majority of its
members shall endorse and sign a statement to the effect that the same is the
assessment roll of the city for the year in which it has been prepared. The
omission of such endorsement shall not affect the validity of such roll. Upon
the completion of said roll and from and after midnight following the last day
of the meeting of the Board of Review, the same shall be the assessment roll of
the city for city taxes on real and personal property that may be authorized by
law and under the provisions of this charter and shall be conclusively presumed
by all courts and tribunals to be valid and shall not be set aside except for
causes set forth in the general laws of the state.
Section 9.9 Clerk to Certify Levy:
   Within three (3) days after the Commission has adopted the budget for the
ensuing year, the Clerk shall certify to the Assessor the total amount which
the Commission determines shall be raised by general tax; all amounts of
special assessments which the Commission required to be assessed or re-assessed
upon any property or against any person; and all other amounts which the
Commission may determine shall be charged, assessed, or re-assessed against any
person or property.
Section 9.10 City Tax Roll:
   After the last day for the meeting of the Board of Review, the Assessor
shall, upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to be raised, as
provided in the preceding section, proceed forthwith to spread upon the
assessment roll the several amounts determined by the Commission to be charged,
assessed, or re-assessed against persons or property; and shall also proceed to
spread the amounts of the general city tax according to and in proportion to
the several valuations set forth in said assessment roll. For the purpose of
avoiding fractions in computation, the Assessor may add to the amount of the
several taxes to be raised not more than one (1) percent; said excess shall
belong to the city.
Section 9.11 Tax Roll Certified for Collection:
   After extending the taxes aforesaid and not later than the 15th day of June
in each year, the Assessor shall certify said tax roll, and the Mayor shall
annex his warrant thereto, directing and requiring the Treasurer to collect
from the several persons named in said roll the several sums mentioned therein
opposite their respective names as a tax or assessment, and granting to him,
for the purpose of collecting the taxes, assessments, and charges on such roll,
all the power and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the
collection of taxes under the general laws of the state.
Section 9.12 Taxes Lien on Property:
   The city taxes thus assessed shall become at once a debt due to the city
from the persons to whom they are assessed, and the amounts assessed on any
interest in real property shall on the first day of July become a lien upon
such real property, and the lien for such amounts and for all interest and
other charges thereon shall continue until payment thereof. All personal taxes
shall also be a first lien, prior, superior, and paramount, upon all personal
property of the persons so assessed from and after the first day of July in
each year and shall so remain until paid, which said tax liens shall take
precedence over all other claims, encumbrances and liens upon said personal
property whatsoever, whether created by chattel mortgage, execution, levy,
judgment, or otherwise, and whether arising before or after the assessment of
said personal taxes, and no transfer of personal property assessed for taxes
thereon shall operate to divest or destroy such lien except where such personal
property is actually sold in the regular course of retail trade.
Section 9.13 Taxes Due: Notification:
   The Treasurer shall not be required to call upon the persons named in the
city tax roll, nor to make personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he
shall give notice to the tax payers of the city, by publication in a newspaper
printed and published in the city at least once, which publication of notice
shall be made at least ten (10) days prior to the first day of July in each
year, of the time when said taxes will be due for collection, and shall give
such notice of the time when said taxes will be due for collection by first
class mail addressed to the owners of the property upon which taxes are
assessed according to the names of such owners and their addresses as indicated
on the tax roll, which notice shall be deemed sufficient for the payment of all
taxes on said tax roll. Failure on the part of the Treasurer to give said
notice shall not invalidate the taxes on said tax roll nor release the person
or property assessed from any penalty or interest provided in this chapter in
case of nonpayment of the same.
Section 9.14 Collection of City Taxes:
   City taxes shall be due and payable on the 15th day of September each year.
To all taxes paid after September 15th, there shall be added a four (4) percent
penalty, and to all taxes paid after said date, there shall also be added
interest at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one (1) percent for each month or
fraction of a month intervening between said date and the date of payment, or
the first day of March of the next succeeding calendar year, whichever date
shall occur first. The added penalties and interest herein provided shall
belong to the City, and shall constitute a charge and shall be a lien against
the property to which the taxes themselves apply, collectible in the same
manner as the taxes to which they are added.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 9.15 Delinquent Tax Roll to County Treasurer:
   If the Treasurer has been unable to collect any of the city taxes on said
roll on real property before the first day of March following the date when
said roll was received by him, it shall be his duty to return all such unpaid
taxes on real property to the county treasurer in the same manner and with like
effect as returns by township treasurers of township, school, and county taxes.
Such returns shall be made upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the
Treasurer and shall include all the additional charges and fees hereinbefore
provided, which charges shall, in such return, be added to the amount assessed
in said tax roll against each description. The taxes thus returned shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to the county treasurer
are collected under the provisions of the general laws of the state and shall
be and remain a lien upon the lands against which they are assessed, until
paid.
Section 9.16 Protection of City Lien:
   The city shall have power, insofar as the exercise thereof shall not
conflict with or contravene the provisions of any general law of the State, to
acquire by purchase any premises within the city at any tax or other public
sale, or by direct purchase from the State of Michigan or the fee owner, when
such purchase is necessary to protect the lien of the city for taxes or special
assessments, or both, on said premises and may hold, lease, or sell the same
solely for the purpose of securing therefrom the amount of such taxes or
special assessments, or both, together with any incidental expenses incurred in
connection with the exercise of this power. Any such procedure exercised by the
city in the protection of its tax lien shall be deemed to be for a public
purpose.
Section 9.17
   For the purpose of assessing and levying taxes in the city for all purposes
other than city taxes, the city shall be considered the same as a township and
except as otherwise provided in this charter, all provisions of state law
relative to the collection of such taxes, the accounting therefore to the
appropriate taxing units, and the returning of delinquent taxes to the county
treasurer for collection, shall apply, and the city treasurer shall have all of
the powers and duties in connection therewith as township treasurers have.
CHAPTER 10: BORROWING POWER
Section 10.1 Grant of Authority to Borrow:
   Subject to the applicable provisions of statute and constitution, the
Commission may by ordinance or resolution borrow money and issue bonds and
other evidence of indebtedness therefor, for any purpose within the scope of
powers vested in the city. Such bonds or other evidences of indebtedness shall
include, but not be limited to, the following types:
   (a)   General obligation bonds which pledge the full faith, credit and
resources of the City for the payment of such obligations, including bonds for
the city's portion of public improvements;
   (b)   Notes issued in anticipation of the collection of taxes, but the
proceeds of such notes may be spent only in accordance with appropriations as
provided by Section
8.6.
   (c)   In case of fire, flood or other calamity requiring an emergency fund
for the relief of the inhabitants of the city, or for the repairing or
rebuilding of any of its municipal buildings, works, bridges or streets,
emergency obligations therefor due in not more than three years;
   (d)   Bonds issued in anticipation of special assessment district, or may be
both an obligation of such special assessment district or districts, and the
general obligation of the city;
   (e)   Mortgage bonds for the acquiring, owning, purchasing, constructing or
operating of any public utility as provided in Article 8, Section 23, of the
Constitution; provided such bonds shall not impose any liability upon the city
but shall be secured only upon the property and revenues of such public
utility, including a franchise, stating the terms upon which, in case of
foreclosure, the purchaser may operate the same, which franchise shall in no
case extend for a longer period than twenty years from the date of the sale of
such utility and franchise on foreclosure. Such mortgage bonds shall be sold to
yield not to exceed six per cent per annum. A sinking fund shall be created in
the event of the issuance of such bonds, by setting aside such percentage of
the gross or net earnings of the public utility as may be deemed sufficient for
such payment.
   (f)   Bonds for the refunding of the funded indebtedness of the city;
   (g)   Revenue bonds as authorized by Public Act 94 of 1933 which are secured
only by the revenues from a public improvement and do not constitute a general
obligation of the city;
Section 10.2 Limits of Borrowing Powers:
   The net bonded indebtedness incurred for all public purposes shall not at
any time exceed ten per cent of the assessed value of all the real and personal
property in the city subject to taxation as shown by the last preceding
assessment roll of the city provided that in computing such net bonded
indebtedness there shall be excluded money borrowed under the following
sections:
10.1 (b) (tax anticipation notes),
10.1 (d) (special assessment bonds even though they are also a general
obligation of the city),
10.1 (e) (mortgage bonds),
10.1 (g) (revenue bonds), and any other obligations excluded by statute or
constitution from such limitation. The resources of the sinking fund pledged
for the retirement of any outstanding bonds shall also be deducted from the
amount of the bonded indebtedness.
   The amount of emergency loans which the Commission make under the provision
of Section
10.1 (c) may not exceed one-fourth of one percent of the assessed value of all
the real and personal property in the city (or such larger percentage as cities
may by statute be permitted to provide in their charter) notwithstanding such
loan may increase the indebtedness of the city beyond the limitation fixed in
the preceding paragraph.
   The total amount of such special assessment bonds issued under Section
10.1 (e) which are a general obligation of the city shall at no time by reason
of future issues, other than issues of refunding bonds, exceed the statutory
limitations thereon, nor shall such bonds be issued in any calendar year in
excess of the amount so permitted to be issued by statute unless authorized by
a vote of the electors in the manner provided by statute.
Section 10.3 Vote of Electors Required:
   Unless approved by majority of the electors voting thereon at any general or
special election, the Commission shall not have the power to authorize any
issue of bonds except special assessment bonds, bonds for the city portion of
local improvements, not to exceed forty percent of the cost of such
improvement, refunding bonds, bonds for relief from fire, flood or calamity,
for payment of judgments, revenue bonds and other bonds excluded by statute
from the requirement for such vote. Only those electors having the
Constitutional qualifications for voting on the approval of bond issues shall
be entitled to vote on such question.
Section 10.4 Preparation and Record of Bonds:
   Every bond issued by the city shall contain on its face a statement
specifying the object for which the same is issued. It shall be unlawful for
any officer of the city to sign or issue any such bond unless such statement is
set forth on the face of the same, or to use such bonds or the proceeds from
the sale thereof for any object other than that mentioned on the face of such
bond. Any officer who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of misconduct in office.
   Bonds and all other evidences of indebtedness issued by the city shall be
signed by the Mayor and Clerk under the seal of the city. The coupons
evidencing the interest upon said bonds may be executed with the facsimile
signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk. A complete and detailed record of all
bonds shall be kept by the Clerk.
   Upon the payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the same
shall be canceled.
Section 10.5 Unissued Bonds:
   Any authorization by the electors for the issuance of bonds by the city
shall be void if such bonds shall not be issued within three years from the
date of such authorization.
Section 10.6 Installment Payment Contracts:
   The Commission may enter into installment contracts for the purchase of
property or capital equipment. Each of such contracts shall not extend over a
greater period than 15 years nor shall the total amount of principal payment
under all such contracts exceed the sum permitted by law. All such deferred
payments shall be included in the budget for the year in which the installment
is payable.
(Amended 3-13-95)
CHAPTER 11: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, CONTRACTS, SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section 11.1 City May Perform Public Work:
   The Commission shall have power to do any public work or make any public
improvement by the employment of the necessary labor and the purchase of the
necessary supplies and materials with separate accounting as to each
improvement so made, or to do such work by contract duly let after competitive
bidding. The Commission shall also have the power to do any public work or make
any public improvement under any legally constituted plan under which the labor
is furnished by any other governmental unit, department, or agency of the
United States or the State of Michigan, or which is wholly or in part financed
by them or either of them.
Section 11.2 Purchasing and Contractual Procedure:
   The City Commission shall, by resolution, establish the procedures for
making purchases of, and contracting for supplies, materials, equipment and
services.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 11.3 General Powers Relative to Special Assessments:
   The Commission shall have the power to determine the necessity of any local
or public improvement, and to determine that the whole or any part of the
expense shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted: Provided, that such expense shall, in each case, be substantially
in accordance with and in proportion to such benefits derived by such property.
Section 11.4 Cost of Acquired Property Added:
   Whenever any property is acquired by condemnation, or otherwise, for the
purpose of any public improvement, the cost thereof, and of the proceedings
required to acquire such property, may be added to the cost of such
improvement.
Section 11.5 Additional Assessments, Refunds:
   When any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to meet the costs
of the improvement for which it was made, the Commission may make an additional
pro rata assessment, but the total amount assessed shall not exceed the value
of benefits received by any lot or parcel of land. Should the assessment prove
larger than necessary to five (5) per cent or less, the Commission may place
the excess in the city treasury. If more than five (5) per cent, the excess
shall be refunded pro rata according to assessments. In either case, the
Commission may provide by resolution that the amount of any such excess may be
allowed as a credit on the last installment where such installment still
remains unpaid at the time the final cost of the improvement is determined.
Section 11.6 Lien in Collection of Special Assessments:
   Upon the confirmation of each special assessment roll, the special
assessment shall become a debt to the City from the persons to whom they are
assessed and shall, until paid, be a lien upon the property assessed for the
amount of such assessments and all interest and charges thereon. Such lien
shall be of the same character and effect as created by the Charter for City
taxes.
   The Commission shall prescribe, by general ordinance, a complete special
assessment collection procedure which shall set forth and include the date upon
which such special assessment shall become due, the maximum number of annual
installments, the date the initial and subsequent installment payments shall be
due, the interest rates such special assessments shall bear whether paid or
unpaid, and the date from which interest is computed. The City Commission may
also provide by general ordinance, the collection procedure for advance
payments of unpaid installments with interest computed. Further, the Commission
may set forth the collection procedure for said installment payments, and the
determination process under which said installment payments shall be considered
delinquent and whether any additional interest shall be charged thereon.
(Amended 11-3-98)
Section 11.7 Procedure to be Fixed by Ordinance:
   The Commission shall prescribe, by general ordinance a complete special
assessment procedure concerning the initiation of projects, plans and
specifications, estimates of costs, notice and hearings, the making and
confirming of the assessment rolls and the correction of errors therein, the
financing of improvements made by special assessment procedures, the collection
of special assessments, and any other matters concerning the making of such
improvements.
Section 11.8 Contested Assessments:
   Except and unless notice is given to the Commission in writing of an
intention to contest or enjoin the collection of any special assessment for the
construction of any pavement, sewer, or other public improvement, the
construction of any sidewalk, or the removal or abatement of any public hazard
or nuisance, within thirty (30) days after the date of the meeting of the
Commission at which it is finally determined to proceed with the making of the
improvement in question, which notice shall state the grounds on which the
proceedings are to be contested, no suit or action of any kind shall be
instituted or maintained for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the
collection of such special assessment; and, regardless of whether or not any
public improvement is completed in any special assessment district, no owner of
real property located in such district shall be entitled to commence any suit
or action for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any such
special assessment after he has received a benefit from the substantial
completion of that portion of such public improvement for which he is assessed.
Section 11.9 Special Assessment Accounts:
   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, monies raised by special
assessment for any public improvement shall be segregated in a special fund or
account and may be used only to pay for the costs of the improvements for which
the assessment was levied and expenses incidental thereto or to repay any money
borrowed therefor.
CHAPTER 12: MUNICIPALLY OWNED UTILITIES
Section 12.1 General Powers Respecting Utilities:
   The City, shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by statute and Constitution to acquire, construct, own, operate,
improve, enlarge, extend, repair and maintain, either within or without its
corporate limits, including, but not by the way of limitation, public utilities
for supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage treatment and garbage
disposal facilities, or any of them, to the municipality and the inhabitant
thereof; and also to sell and deliver water, light, heat, power, gas and other
public utility service without its corporate limits to an amount not to exceed
the limitations set by statute and Constitution.
Section 12.2 Management of Municipally Owned Utilities:
   All municipally owned utilities shall be administered as a regular
department of the city government under one or more department heads appointed
by, and serving at the pleasure of, the Commission and not by an independent
board or commission.
Section 12.3 Rates:
   The Commission shall have power to fix from time to time such just and
reasonable rates as may be deemed advisable for supplying the inhabitants of
the city and others with such public utility services as the city may provide.
There shall be no discrimination in such rates within any classification of
users thereof, nor shall free service be permitted, but higher rates may be
charged for service outside the city limits.
Section 12.4 Utility Rates and Charges - Collection:
   The Commission shall provide by ordinance for the collection of all public
utility rates and charges made by the city. With respect to water, the city
shall have all the powers granted to cities by Public Act 178 of 1939 as
amended. When any person, firm or corporation shall fail or refuse to pay any
sums due on utility bills, the service upon which such delinquency exists may
be discontinued and suit may be instituted by the city for the collection of
the same in any competent tribunal.
Section 12.5 Disposal of Utility Plants and Property:
   Unless approved by a three-fifths majority vote of the electors voting
thereon at a regular or special election, the city shall not sell, exchange,
lease or in any way dispose of any property, easements, equipment, privilege or
asset belonging to and appertaining to any municipally owned public utility
which is needed to continue operating such utility. All contracts,
negotiations, licenses, grants, leases or other forms of transfer in violation
of this section shall be void and of no effect as against the city. The
restrictions of this section shall not apply to the sale or exchange of any
articles of machinery or equipment of any city owned public utility which are
worn out or useless or which have been, or could with advantage to the service
be, replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment, to the leasing of
property not necessary for the operation of the utility, or to the exchange of
property or easements for other needed property or easements.
Section 12.6 Utility Accounts:
   Transactions pertaining to the ownership and operation by the city of each
public utility shall be recorded in a separate group of accounts under an
appropriate fund caption, which accounts shall be classified in accordance with
generally accepted utility accounting practice. Charges for all service
furnished to, or rendered by, other city departments or agencies shall be
recorded. An annual report shall be prepared to show fairly the financial
position of the utility and the results of its operations, which report shall
be available for inspection at the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 13: PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISES
Section 13.1 Granting of Public Utility Franchises:
   Public utility franchises and all renewals, extensions thereof and
amendments thereto shall be granted by ordinance only. No exclusive franchise
shall ever be granted. No franchise shall be granted for a longer period than
thirty years.
   No franchise ordinance which is not subject to revocation at the will of the
Commission shall be enacted nor become operative until the same shall have
first been referred to the people at a regular or special election and received
the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the electors voting thereon. No such
franchise ordinance shall be approved by the Commission for referral to the
electorate before thirty days after application therefor has been filed with
the Commission nor until a public hearing has been held thereon nor until the
grantee named therein has filed with the Clerk his unconditional acceptance
ordered by the Commission unless the expense of holding such election, as
determined by the Commission shall have first been paid to the Treasurer by the
grantee.
   A franchise ordinance or renewal or extension thereof or amendment thereto
which is subject to revocation at the will of the Commission may be enacted by
the Commission without referral to the voters, but shall not be enacted unless
it shall have been in the form in which it is finally enacted and shall have so
been on file in the office of the Clerk for public inspection for at least four
weeks after publication of a notice that such ordinance is so on file.
Section 13.2 Conditions of Public Utility Franchise:
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to
the following rights of the city, but this enumeration shall not be exclusive
or impair the right of the Commission to insert in such franchise any provision
within the power of the city to impose or require:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, non-use or failure to comply with the
provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant and service and
maintenance thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (e)   To use, control and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges
and public places and the space above and beneath them;
   (f)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the
Commission to be conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation of the
public.
Section 13.3 Regulation of Rates:
   All public utility franchises shall make provision therein for fixing rates,
fares and charges and may provide for readjustments thereof at periodic
intervals. The value of the property of the utility used as a basis for fixing
such rates, fares and charges shall in no event include a value predicted upon
the franchise, goodwill or prospective profits.
Section 13.4 Use of Public Places by Utilities:
   Every public utility whether it has a franchise or not shall pay such part
of the cost of improvement or maintenance of streets, alleys, bridges and
public places as shall arise from its use thereof and shall protect and save
the city harmless from all damages arising from said use. Every such public
utility may be required by the city to permit joint use of its property and
appurtenances located in the streets, alleys and other public places of the
city by the city and by other utilities insofar as such joint use may be
reasonably practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefor. In the
absence of agreement and upon application by any public utility, the Commission
shall provide for arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint use and
the compensation to be paid therefor, and the arbitration award shall be final.
CHAPTER 14: MISCELLANEOUS
Section 14.1 Advisory Committees or Boards:
   The city commission or city manager with the approval of the commission may
from time to time appoint such committees or boards as are deemed appropriate
to advise and consult with them, and with appropriate department heads,
regarding any municipal activity. Such committees or boards shall serve at the
pleasure of the commission which shall also determine what, if any,
compensation shall be paid.
Section 14.2 Notice to City of Claim for Injuries:
   The city shall not be liable in damages sustained by any person, either to
his person or property, by reason of the negligence of the city, its officers,
or employees, nor by reason of any defective highway, street, bridge, sidewalk,
cross-walk or culvert, or by reason of any obstruction, ice, snow or other
encumbrance upon such street, sidewalk, crosswalk or public highway, situated
in the city, unless such person shall serve or cause to be served, within sixty
(60) days after such injury shall have occurred, a notice in writing, upon the
Clerk, which notice shall set forth substantially the time and place of such
injury, the nature of the defect, the manner in which it occurred, and the
extent of such injury as far as the same has become known, the names and
addresses of the witnesses known at the time by claimant, and a statement that
the person receiving such injury intends to hold the city liable for such
damages as may have been sustained by him. No person shall bring any action
against the city for any damages to person or property arising out of any
obstruction, ice, snow, or other encumbrance upon such street, sidewalk,
crosswalk or public highway, situated in the city unless he shall also present
to the Clerk his claim in writing and under oath, setting forth particularly
the nature and extent of such injury and the amount of damages claimed by
reason thereof which claims shall be presented to the Commission by the Clerk.
   It shall be a sufficient bar and answer in any court to any action or
proceeding for the collection of any demand or claim against the city, under
this section, that the notice of injury and the verified proof of claim, as in
this section required, were not presented and filed within the time and in the
manner as herein provided.
Section 14.3 Publication and Mailing of Notices:
   The Commission shall determine the method of publication of all notices,
ordinances, and proceedings for which a mode of publication is not prescribed
by this charter or by law. The Commission may determine that such publication
may be made in a newspaper which is printed or circulated in the city, or that
such publication may be made by posting in the office of the Clerk and in five
(5) other public places in the city. In case publication is made by posting, a
notice of such posting, setting forth by a descriptive phrase, the purpose of
or nature of the notice, ordinance, or proceeding posted, and location of the
places where posted, shall be published at least once in a newspaper published
and circulated in the city within seven (7) days after such posting was done.
   In any case in which this charter requires the mailing of notices, the
affidavit of the officer or employee responsible for such mailing that such
notice was mailed shall be prima facie evidence of such mailing.
Section 14.4 No Estoppe by Representation:
   No official of the city shall have power to make any representation or
recital of fact in any franchise, contract, document or agreement, contrary to
any public record of the city. Any such representation shall be void and of no
effect as against the city.
Section 14.5 City Records:
   All records of the city shall be public.
Section 14.6 Prior City Ordinances and Regulations:
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City of Imlay City
which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, in force and
effect at the same time of the adoption of this charter, shall continue in full
force as ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city until
repealed or amended by action of the proper authorities.
Section 14.7 Headings:
   The chapter and section headings used in this charter are for convenience
only and shall not be considered to be a part of this charter.
Section 14.8 Effect of Illegality of Any Part of Charter:
   Should any provision or section, or portion thereof, of this charter be held
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, or
unconstitutional, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity
of this charter as a whole or of any remaining portion of such provision or
section; it being hereby declared to be the intent of the Charter Commission
and of the electors who voted thereon that such unconstitutionality or
illegality shall not affect the validity of any part of this charter except
that specifically affected by such holding. Further, it is hereby declared that
it was the intent of the Charter Commission and of the electors of the City of
Imlay City, in preparing and adopting this charter, that said instrument should
conform in all respects with the provisions and requirements of State Law. In
the event that any provision of this charter shall conflict with or contravene
the provisions of any general law of the State of Michigan, the provisions of
such general law of the state shall govern.
Section 14.9 Amendments:
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided in Act No.
279 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 117.1 et seq.
Should two (2) or more amendments, adopted at the same election, have
conflicting provisions, the one receiving the largest affirmative vote shall
prevail as to those provisions.
Section 14.10 Definitions and Interpretations:
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context:
   (a)   All words used in this charter indicating the present tense shall not
be limited to the time of the adoption of this charter but shall extend to and
include the time of the happening of any event or requirement for which
provision is made herein.
   (b)   The singular number shall include the plural, the plural number shall
include the singular and the masculine gender shall extend to and include the
feminine gender and the neuter.
   (c)   The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate and to partnerships as well as to individuals.
   (d)   The words “printed” and “printing” shall include reproductions by
printing, engraving, stencil duplication, lithographing or any similar method.
   (e)   Except in reference to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” shall include printing and typewriting.
   (f)   The word “officer” shall include the Mayor and other members of the
Commission, the administrative officers, and members of city boards and
commissions created by or pursuant to this charter.
   (g)   The word “statute” shall denote the Public Acts of the State of
Michigan as in effect at the time the provision of the charter containing the
word “statute” is to be applied.
   (h)   The word “Constitution” shall denote the Constitution of the State of
Michigan as in effect at the time the provision of the charter containing the
word “Constitution” is to be applied.
   (i)   All references to specific local or Public Acts shall be to such local
or Public Acts of the State of Michigan as in effect at the time the reference
to such act is to be applied.
   (j)   All references to section numbers shall refer to section numbers of
this charter.
Section 14.11 Trusts and Requests:
   All trusts established for any municipal purpose shall be used and continued
in accordance with the terms of such trust subject to the cy pres doctrine. The
Commission may in its discretion receive and hold any property in trust for any
municipal purpose and shall apply the same to the execution of such trust and
for no other purposes except in cases where the cy pres doctrine shall apply.
Section 14.12 Sunday and Holidays:
   Whenever the date fixed by this charter or by ordinance for the doing or
completion of any act falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, such act shall be
done or completed on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or legal
holiday.
Section 14.13 Penalties for Misconduct in Office:
   Any officer of the city found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
any act declared by this charter to constitute misconduct in office may be
punished by a fine of not to exceed one hundred dollars or imprisonment for not
to exceed ninety days or both in the discretion of the court. The punishment
provided in this section shall be in addition to that of having the office
declared vacant as provided in Section
5.4.
CHAPTER 15: SCHEDULE
Section 15.1 Election on Charter:
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the electors of the Village of
Imlay City for adoption at a special village election to be held on December
14, 1970. In connection with such election the Charter Commission and the
Village Council shall perform all of the duties required by law for the giving
of notice of and the conduct of said election. The last day for the
registration of electors for such election shall be November 16, 1970. Proper
and sufficient notice of registration and of such special election shall be
given by the Village Clerk by publication and posting in the manner prescribed
by law. If at said election a majority of the electors of the village, voting
thereon shall vote in favor of the adoption of this charter, then the Village
Clerk shall perform all other acts required by law to carry this charter into
effect.
Section 15.2 Form of Ballot:
   The form of the ballot on submission of this charter shall be as follows:
   (Proper Instructions)
   “Shall the Proposed Charter of the City of Imlay City, framed by the Charter
Commission which was elected on March 30, 1970, and which has been approved by
the Governor of the State of Michigan, be adopted?”
                  []   YES
                  []   NO
Section 15.3 Effective Date:
   Except as otherwise herein provided, this charter, if adopted, shall go into
effect at 12:01 a.m. on December 29, 1970, at which time the provisions hereof
and the government herein shall commence functioning.
Section 15.4 First City Commission:
   Concurrently with the election on adoption of this charter, an election
shall be held for seven (7) members of the first Commission. Nomination
petitions shall be received by the clerk not later than 5:00 p.m. November 16,
1970 and the election shall be conducted on an at-large, non-partisan basis on
a single ballot and with each voter permitted to vote for up to seven (7) of
the commission candidates. The four commissioners receiving the greatest number
of votes shall have terms of four years and the three other commissioners shall
have terms of two years. As nearly as practicable, the election shall be
conducted in conformance with the terms of this proposed charter and the
election laws of the state.
   If this charter is adopted, the first commission shall convene, be sworn in,
and organize at the Municipal Office at 7:00 p.m. on December 29, 1970, at
which time the incumbent council of the present Village of Imlay City shall
complete its business and then terminate and cease to exist, and all rights,
duties, functions, and powers of the council shall become vested in the new
commission.
   Officers holding office under the previous charter, except members of the
Village Council, shall continue in office until their successors are chosen or
until the office is abolished in accordance with the provisions of this
charter. Where questions arise concerning the responsibility and authority of
officers, pending the appointment of a city manager, the commission shall
temporarily fix responsibility and grant authority as is necessary to maintain
the services of the city.
Section 15.5 Interim:
   The Commission, on the recommendation of the City Manager, shall have
authority to make any necessary interim budget required to defray the cost of
government from December 29, 1970 to June 30, 1971 in order to bring the city's
financial plan into conformity with the fiscal year herein provided.
Section 15.6 Status of Schedule Chapter:
   The purpose of this schedule chapter is to inaugurate the government to the
City of Imlay City under this charter and shall constitute a part of this
charter only to the extent and for the time required to accomplish that end.
Resolution of Adoption:
   At a meeting of the Charter Commission of the City of Imlay City, held in
the offices of the City of Imlay City, the usual meeting place of the Charter
Commission, on August 20, 1970, the following members of the Charter Commission
were present: Melvin E. Eckel, Gordon L. Bristol, Leonard A. Schaaf, Mervin W.
Whiteman, Joseph C. Simons, Arthur F. Shaw, John F. Folk, Howard A. Schoenberg.
   At such meeting, the following resolution was offered by Commissioner
Bristol and seconded by Commissioner Whiteman:
   RESOLVED, That the Charter Commission of the City of Imlay City does hereby
adopt the foregoing instrument as the proposed revised Charter of the City of
Imlay City and the chairman of this Commission is hereby instructed to transmit
the same to the Governor of the State of Michigan, in accordance with the
provisions of the statute, for his approval.
   The vote on the adoption of said resolution was as follows:
   Signed:   JOSEPH SIMONS
         Clerk of the Charter
         Commission of the City
         of Imlay City
CITY OF IMLAY CITY, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-21 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2013-001, passed 7-16-13
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 1
An ordinance to enact a Code of Ordinances for the City of Imlay City revising,
amending, restating, codifying, and compiling certain existing ordinances of
the City.
   WHEREAS, Public Acts of the State of Michigan authorize the City Commission
of this City to revise, amend, restate, codify, and to compile its ordinances
and to incorporate said ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the City Commission of the City of Imlay City has authorized a
general compilation and codification of the ordinances of the City and the
printing of such ordinances in book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Imlay City that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Imlay City as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Imlay City".
Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
      Title I      General Provisions
      Title III      Administration
      Title V      Public Works
      Title VII      Traffic Code
      Title IX      General Regulations
      Title XI      Business Regulations
      Title XIII      General Offenses
      Title XV      Land Usage
      Tables of Special Ordinances
      Parallel References
      Index
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code; provided
such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication
of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries of streets,
alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
Section 4. Said Code shall be in full force and effect upon publication of this
Ordinance and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk. Said Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts of the ordinance and all provisions,
sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the date of
passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and approved
and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law have been
given.
   The undersigned Mayor and Clerk of the City of Imlay City hereby certify
that this ordinance was duly adopted by the Imlay City Commission on the 15th
day of November, 1994.
                                          Rod Dewey /s/
                                          Mayor
                                          Amy Stryker /s/
                                          Clerk
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
   CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF IMLAY CITY, STATE OF MICHIGAN
   AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the #4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Imlay
City, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Imlay City; and
WHEREAS,   American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Michigan Code; and
WHEREAS,   it is the intent of the City Commission to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Michigan or
amendments of City of Imlay City ordinances; and
WHEREAS,   it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COMMISSION OF IMLAY CITY;
Section 1.   That the #4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Imlay City as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Commission and the Clerk of Imlay City is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept in file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect upon publication.
Section 4.   That if there is an inconsistency or discrepancy in the language
in the Book of Ordinance and Code of Ordinances, the Book of Ordinance is
controlling.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Imlay City Commission on Tuesday, November 19, 1996.
                                          Rod Dewey /s/
                                          Mayor
                                          Amy Stryker /s/
                                          Clerk
CHARTER
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter 1
Name of Boundaries
   Section
1.1   Name and Boundaries
Chapter 2
Municipal Powers
   Section
2.1   General Powers
   Section
2.2   Further Definition of Powers
   Section
2.3   Further Definition of Powers
   Section
2.4   Intergovernmental Contracts
   Section
2.5   Outside Fire Protection
Chapter 3
Elections
   Section
3.1   Election Districts; Voting Precincts
   Section
3.2   Qualification of Electors
   Section
3.3   Election Procedures
   Section
3.4   Election Dates
   Section
3.5   Elective Officers and Terms of Office
   Section
3.6   Nominations
   Section
3.7   Approval of Petitions
   Section
3.8   Public Inspection of Petitions
   Section
3.9   Election Commission
   Section
3.10   Election Inspectors
   Section
3.11   Notice of Election
   Section
3.12   Voting Hours
   Section
3.13   Form of Ballot
   Section
3.14   Special Elections
   Section
3.15   Canvass of Votes
   Section
3.16   Recount
   Section
3.17   Recall
   Section
3.18   Tie Vote
   Section
3.19   Absentee Ballot
Chapter 4
Organization of Government
   Section
4.1   The Commission:
   Section
4.2   Remuneration of Members of the Commission
   Section
4.3   Selection of Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem
   Section
4.4   Duties of Mayor
   Section
4.5   City Manager
   Section
4.6   Functions of the City Manager
   Section
4.7   Other Administrative Officers
   Section
4.8   Appointment of Administrative Officers and Employees of the City
   Section
4.9   Appointment of Other Officers, Heads of Department, and Employees
   Section
4.10   Duties of Administrative Officers
   Section
4.11   City Treasurer
   Section
4.12   City Officers and Employees Benefits
Chapter 5
General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel of the City
   Section
5.1   Eligibility for Office in City
   Section
5.2   Residence Requirements for Appointive Officers
   Section
5.3   Nepotism
   Section
5.4   Vacancies in Office
   Section
5.5   Removals from Office
   Section
5.6   Resignations
   Section
5.7   Filling Vacancies
   Section
5.8   No Change in Term of Office or Compensation
   Section
5.9   Compensation of Employees and Officers
   Section
5.10   Oath of Office and Bond
   Section
5.11   Surety Bonds
   Section
5.12   Delivery of Office
Chapter 6
Functions of the Commission
   Section
6.1   Public Health and Safety
   Section
6.2   Police Department
   Section
6.3   Fire Department
   Section
6.4   Ambulance Service
   Section
6.5   Health
   Section
6.6   Meetings of the Commission
   Section
6.7   Investigations
   Section
6.8   Restriction on the Commission
Chapter 7
City Legislation
   Section
7.1   Ordinance Enactment
   Section
7.2   Penalties
   Section
7.3   Publication of Ordinances
   Section
7.4   Special Procedure on Vote on Certain Commission Actions
   Section
7.5   Technical Codes
   Section
7.6   Franchise and Contracts
   Section
7.7   Compilation
   Section
7.8   Initiative and Referendum
   Section
7.9   Petitions
   Section
7.10   Commission Procedure
   Section
7.11   Submission to Electors
   Section
7.12   Ordinance Suspended
Chapter 8
General Finance
   Section
8.1   Fiscal Year
   Section
8.2   Budget Procedure
   Section
8.3   Budget Document
   Section
8.4   Budget Hearing
   Section
8.5   Adoption of Budget, Tax Limit
   Section
8.6   Transfer of Appropriations
   Section
8.7   Budget Control
   Section
8.8   Depository
   Section
8.9   Independent Audit
Chapter 9
Taxation
   Section
9.1   Power to Tax and Secure Revenue
   Section
9.2   Subjects of Taxation
   Section
9.3   Assessment
   Section
9.4   Time for Making Assessment Rolls
   Section
9.5   Board of Review
   Section
9.6   Meeting of Board of Review
   Section
9.7   Organization and Functions of the Board of Review
   Section
9.8   Endorsement of Roll - Validity
   Section
9.9   Clerk to Certify Levy
   Section
9.10   City Tax Roll
   Section
9.11   Tax Roll Certified for Collection
   Section
9.12   Taxes Lien on Property
   Section
9.13   Taxes Due: Notification
   Section
9.14   Collection of City Taxes
   Section
9.15   Delinquent Tax Roll to County Treasurer
   Section
9.16   Protection of City Lien
   Section
9.17   
Chapter 10
Borrowing Power
   Section
10.1   Grant of Authority to Borrow
   Section
10.2   Limits of Borrowing Powers
   Section
10.3   Vote of Electors Required
   Section
10.4   Preparation and Record of Bonds
   Section
10.5   Unissued Bonds
   Section
10.6   Installment Payment Contracts
Chapter 11
Public Improvements, Contracts, Special Assessments
   Section
11.1   City May Perform Public Work
   Section
11.2   Purchasing and Contractual Procedure
   Section
11.3   General Powers Relative to Special Assessments
   Section
11.4   Cost of Acquired Property Added
   Section
11.5   Additional Assessments, Refunds
   Section
11.6   Lien in Collection of Special Assessments
   Section
11.7   Procedure to be Fixed by Ordinance
   Section
11.8   Contested Assessments
   Section
11.9   Special Assessment Accounts
Chapter 12
Municipally Owned Utilities
   Section
12.1   General Powers Respecting Utilities
   Section
12.2   Management of Municipally Owned Utilities
   Section
12.3   Rates
   Section
12.4   Utility Rates and Charges - Collection
   Section
12.5   Disposal of Utility Plants and Property
   Section
12.6   Utility Accounts
Chapter 13
Public Utility Franchises
   Section
13.1   Granting of Public Utility Franchises
   Section
13.2   Conditions of Public Utility Franchise
   Section
13.3   Regulation of Rates
   Section
13.4   Use of Public Places by Utilities
Chapter 14
Miscellaneous
   Section
14.1   Advisory Committees or Boards
   Section
14.2   Notice to City of Claim for Injuries
   Section
14.3   Publication and Mailing of Notices
   Section
14.4   No Estoppe by Representation
   Section
14.5   City Records
   Section
14.6   Prior City Ordinances and Regulations
   Section
14.7   Headings
   Section
14.8   Effect of Illegality of Any Part of Charter
   Section
14.9   Amendments
   Section
14.10   Definitions and Interpretations
   Section
14.11   Sunday and Holidays
   Section
14.12   Penalties for Misconduct in Office
Chapter 15
Schedule
   Section
15.1   Election on Charter
   Section
15.2   Form of Ballot
   Section
15.3   Effective Date
   Section
15.4   First City Commission
   Section
15.5   Interim
   Section
15.6   Status of Schedule Chapter
Resolution of Adoption
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of Imlay City, by virtue of the authority of the
Constitution and Public Act 279 of 1909, do hereby ordain and establish this
home rule charter for the Village of Imlay City.
CHAPTER 1: NAME OF BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1 Name and Boundaries:
   The name of this City shall be the City of Imlay City. It shall include
within its limits the territory hereinafter described, together with such
territory as may from time to time be annexed thereto, and less such territory
as may from time to time be detached therefrom, in accordance with statute:
      The South three-fourths (3/4) of Section 17, and the North one-half (1/2)
of Section 20, all in Town 7 North, Range 12 East, Lapeer County, Michigan.
CHAPTER 2: MUNICIPAL POWERS
Section 2.1 General Powers:
   Unless otherwise provided or limited in this charter, the City and its
officers shall possess and be vested with any and all powers, privileges and
immunities, expressed or implied, which cities and their officers are, or
hereafter may be permitted to exercise or to provide for in their charters
under statute and constitution, including all powers, privileges and immunities
which cities are, or may be, permitted to provide in their charters under the
Constitution and statute, including all the powers, privileges and immunities
granted to cities and their officers by Public Act 3 of 1909 as amended, as
fully and completely as though their powers, privileges and immunities were
specifically enumerated and provided for in this charter, and in no case shall
any enumeration of particular powers, privileges or immunities herein be held
to be exclusive.
   The city and its officers shall have power to exercise all municipal powers
in the management and control of municipal property and in the administration
of the municipal government, whether such powers be herein expressly enumerated
or not; to do any act to advance the interest of the city, the good government
and prosperity of the municipality and its inhabitants; to make all laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers
and all other powers vested by the constitution in cities, except where
forbidden, or where the subject is covered exclusively by a general law.
Section 2.2 Further Definition of Powers:
   In addition to the powers possessed by the City under the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Michigan, and those set forth throughout this Charter,
the City shall have power with respect to and may, by ordinance or other lawful
acts of its officers, provide for the following subject to any specific
limitation placed thereon by this Charter:
   (a)   The regulation of trades, occupations, and amusements within its
boundaries including the sale of intoxication liquors and the number of
licenses to be issued therefor; and for the prohibition of such trades,
occupations, and amusements as are detrimental to the health, morals or welfare
of its inhabitants;
   (b)   The establishment and vacation of streets, alleys, public ways and
other public places and the use, regulation, improvement and control of the
surface of such streets, alleys, public ways and other public places and of the
space above and beneath them.
   (c)   The acquisition by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction,
or in any manner permitted by statute, of private property of every type and
nature for public use, which property may be located within or without the
County of Lapeer and which may be required for or incidental to the present or
future exercise of the purposes, powers, and duties of the city, either
proprietary or otherwise;
   (d)   For the maintenance, development, operation, leasing and disposal of
city property subject to any restrictions placed thereon by statute or this
charter; provided, specifically, that if it shall become necessary to take and
appropriate private property for the public uses or purposes specifically in
this section, the right to occupy and hold the same and the ownership therein
and thereto, may be acquired by the city in the manner and with like effect, as
provided by the general laws of this state relating to the taking of private
property for public use in cities and villages, including Chapter XIII of
Public Act 3 of 1895;
   (e)   The selling and delivering of water, heat, power and light within and
without its corporate limits in an amount not to exceed that permitted by
statute and the Constitution;
   (f)   The use upon the payment of reasonable compensation, by others than
the owners, of property located in the streets, alleys, and public places and
used in the operation of a public utility;
   (g)   The use, control and regulation of streams, water and water courses
within its boundaries, but not so as to conflict with the laws or actions
thereunder where a navigable stream is bridged or dammed;
   (h)   The enforcement of all such local, police, sanitary and other
regulations as are not in conflict with the general laws;
   (i)   The regulating the use, occupancy, sanitation and parking of house
trailers within the city, and the right of the city to so regulate any house
trailer shall not be abrogated because of any detachment thereof from its
wheels or because of placing it on, or attaching it to the ground by means of
any temporary or permanent foundation or in any manner whatsoever;
   (j)   The acquiring, establishment, operation, extension and maintenance of
facilities for the storage and parking of vehicles within its corporate limits,
including the fixing and collection of charges for service thereof on a public
utility basis, and for such purpose to acquire by gift, purchase, condemnation
or otherwise the land necessary therefor;
   (k)   Regulating, restricting and limiting the number and location of oil
and gasoline stations and storage in bulk plants;
   (l)   Establishing districts or zones within which use of land and
structures, the height, the area, the size and location of buildings and
required open spaces for light and ventilation of such buildings, and the
density of population may be regulated by ordinance in accordance with
statutory provisions governing zoning;
   (m)   Licensing, regulating, restricting and limiting the number and
location of advertising signs or displays and billboards within the city;
   (n)   The preventing of injury or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city
from anything which is dangerous, offensive, or unhealthful, and for the
preventing and abating of nuisances and punishing those occasioning them or
neglecting or refusing to abate, discontinue or remove the same;
   (o)   The regulating of airports located within its boundaries and, for the
purpose of promoting and preserving the public peace, safety and welfare,
controlling and regulating the use of the air above the city by aircraft of all
types;
   (p)   The requiring, as a condition of approving plats of land or premises
hereafter laid out, divided or platted into streets and alleys within the city,
that all streets shown on said plat be graded and graveled or otherwise
improved, that all ditches, drains and culverts necessary to make such streets
usable be constructed, and that cement sidewalks be constructed in the proper
places, all in accordance with city specifications. The Commission may accept a
bond conditioned upon the installation of such of the foregoing improvements as
it requires within such time as it determines;
   (q)   The regulating and control of the collection and disposal of garbage
and rubbish within its boundaries;
   (r)   The requiring of an owner of real property within the city to maintain
sidewalks abutting on such property, and if the owner fails to comply with such
requirements or if the owner is unknown, to construct and maintain such
sidewalks and assess the cost thereof against the abutting property in
accordance with
Chapter 11;
   (s)   The requiring of an owner of real property within the city to abate
public hazards and nuisances which are dangerous to the health or safety of
inhabitants of the city within a reasonable time after the Commission notifies
him that such hazard or nuisance exists, and if the owner fails to comply with
such requirements, or if the owner is unknown, to abate such hazard or nuisance
and assess the cost thereof against such property in accordance with
Chapter 11;
   (t)   The compelling of owners of real property within the city to keep
sidewalks abutting upon their property clear from snow, ice or other
obstructions, and if the owner fails to comply with such requirements; to
remove such snow, ice or other obstructions and assess the cost thereof against
the abutting property in accordance with Section
11.6;
   (u)   The control over all trees, shrubs and plants in the public streets,
highways, parks or other public places in the city, all dead and diseased trees
on private property and trees on private property overhanging the street,
sidewalk or public places, and the removal thereof and assess the cost thereof
against the abutting property in accordance with Section
11.6;
Section 2.3 Further Definition of Powers:
   In accordance with the authority granted in Section 25 of Public Act 279 of
1909 as amended, powers granted which are not in conflict with the provisions
of this Charter, are hereby adopted as part of this Charter by reference
thereto, but the city shall not be subject to any limitations or restrictions
of said Act except as provided in this Charter.
Section 2.4 Intergovernmental Contracts:
   The city shall have the power to join with any governmental unit or agency,
or with any number or combination thereof, by contract or otherwise as may be
permitted by law, to have performed (a) jointly, or (b) by one or more of them
for or on behalf of the other or others, or by any other person, firm or
corporation, any function which is permitted to be so performed by law by such
governmental unit or agency.
Section 2.5 Outside Fire Protection:
   In the exercise of the powers contained in Section
2.1, the Commission shall have the right to contract with persons, firms,
corporations or governing bodies to furnish fire, police and ambulance services
to property and persons outside the city boundaries for a fair consideration,
if the Commission shall find that the financial interests of the city are
advanced by obtaining payments therefor; or that the prosperity of the
municipality and the inhabitants are advanced through preventing a
conflagration which might spread within the city or through protecting from
fire industrial or commercial properties at which residents of the city are
employed.
CHAPTER 3: ELECTIONS
Section 3.1 Election Districts; Voting Precincts:
   The City shall constitute one ward and two voting precincts, except that the
Election Commission may establish additional precincts not in excess of the
number required by law. The Election Commission shall fix the location of the
polling places.
Section 3.2 Qualification of Electors:
   The residents of the city having the qualification of electors in the State
of Michigan shall be electors of the city.
Section 3.3 Election Procedures:
   The election of all city officers shall be on a non-partisan basis. The
general election statutes shall apply to and control, as near as may be, all
procedures relating to registration and election except as such statutes relate
to political parties or partisan procedures and except as otherwise provided in
this Charter.
Section 3.4 Election Dates:
   A regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in May in each odd-numbered year.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 3.5 Elective Officers and Terms of Office:
   The elective officers of the City shall be a City Commission of 7 members,
one of whom shall in turn be elected by the commission as City Mayor. At each
regular city election, four commissioners shall be elected on a single ballot.
Each elector shall be entitled to vote for not more than four candidates. The
three candidates receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected for a
term of four years and the candidate receiving the fourth highest number of
votes shall be elected for a term of two years, all such terms shall commence
at the first regular or special meeting following the certification of the
election results.
(Amended 11-5-20)
Section 3.6 Nominations:
   The method of nomination of the elective officers shall be by petition
signed by not less than twenty-five nor more than fifty qualified electors of
the city. No person shall sign his or her name to a greater number of petitions
for office than there will be persons elected to said office at said election.
Where the signature of any individual appears on more petitions than he or she
is so permitted to sign, such signatures shall be counted only to the extent he
or she is so permitted to sign in the order of the respective dates of filing
the petitions containing such signatures.
   Nominating petitions shall be filed with the City Clerk by 4:00 p.m. on the
fifteenth Tuesday preceding the election. The Clerk shall publish notice of the
last day so permitted for filing petitions at least one week before, and not
more than three weeks before, such last day.
   The form of petition shall be substantially as that designated by the
Secretary of State for the nomination of non-partisan judicial officers. A
supply of official petition forms shall be provided by the Clerk.
(Amended 11-5-20)
Section 3.7 Approval of Petitions:
   The Clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform with the form
provided and maintained by him or her and which, considered together, contain
the required number of valid signatures for candidates having those
qualifications required for elective office by this charter. When a petition is
filed by persons other than the person whose name appears thereon as candidate,
it may be accepted only when accompanied by the written consent of the
candidate. The Clerk shall, forthwith after the filing of a petition, notify in
writing any candidate whose petition is then known not to meet the requirements
of this charter, but the failure to so notify any candidate shall in no way
prevent a final determination that the petition does not meet such
requirements.
   Within three days after the last day for filling petitions, the Clerk shall
make his final determination as to the validity and sufficiency of each
nomination petition and whether or not the candidate has the qualifications
required for office by this charter and shall write his determinations thereof
on the face of the petition. The Clerk shall immediately notify in writing the
candidate whose name appears thereon of his or her determination. Such notice
to any candidate whose petition is found invalid or insufficient shall be
delivered by personal messenger if possible.
   The names of the candidates who file valid and sufficient nomination
petitions shall be certified by the Clerk to the Election Commission to be
placed upon the ballot for the next subsequent regular city election or the
next special election for the filling of vacancies in office, as the case may
be.
   Any candidate may withdraw by filing a signed statement to such effect with
the city clerk not later than 4:00 P.M. on the third day following the deadline
for filing the original petition.
(Amended 11-5-20)
Section 3.8 Public Inspection of Petitions:
   All nomination petitions shall be open to public inspection in the office of
the Clerk beginning five (5) days after the final filing date for such
petitions.
Section 3.9 Election Commission:
   An election commission is hereby created, consisting of the clerk and two
members of the Commission who are not candidates for office. The Clerk shall be
chairman. The commission shall have charge of all activities and duties
required of election commissions in cities by state law and this charter,
relating to the conduct of electors in the city. The compensation of election
personnel shall be determined in advance by the Commission. In any case where
election procedure is in doubt, the election commission shall prescribe the
procedure to be followed.
Section 3.10 Election Inspectors:
   The election commission shall before each election appoint for each precinct
of the City a board of inspectors of election consisting of not less than three
qualified electors, and shall fix their compensation. Election inspectors shall
have qualifications which comply with the state law.
Section 3.11 Notice of Election:
   Notice of the time and place of holding any City election and of the
officers to be elected and the questions and propositions to be voted upon
shall be given by the Clerk by publishing such notice not less than ten days
prior to such election.
Section 3.12 Voting Hours:
   The polls of all elections shall be opened and closed at the time prescribed
by statute for the opening and closing of polls at state elections.
Section 3.13 Form of Ballot:
   The form, printing and numbering of ballots in all city elections shall
conform as nearly as may be to that prescribed by statute, except that no party
designation or emblem shall appear. In all elections, the names of qualified
candidates shall be rotated systematically in the manner prescribed by statute
for rotation of names.
Section 3.14 Special Elections:
   Special city elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
Commission at least forty-five days in advance of such election with the
concurrence of the County Election Scheduling Committee, or when required by
this charter or statute. Any resolution calling a special election shall set
forth the purpose of such election. The Commission shall not call more special
elections within any year than the number permitted by statute.
Section 3.15 Canvass of Votes:
   In accordance with State Law the Lapeer County Board of Canvassers shall
serve all city elections.
Section 3.16 Recount:
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office or upon any
proposition may be had in accordance with election statutes. Unless otherwise
required by statute, (1) a recount petition shall be filed with the Clerk by
five o'clock in the afternoon on the second full day after the board of
canvassers has made its official report, (2) any counter-petition shall be
filed by five o'clock in the afternoon on the next full day thereafter, and (3)
no officer shall be qualified to take office until the final determination of
any recount of the votes cast for such office. In case of recount a written
notice of such recount shall be filed with each candidate on the ballot.
Section 3.17 Recall:
   Any elected official may be recalled from office by the electors of the city
in the manner provided by statute. A vacancy created by such recall shall be
filled in the manner prescribed by statute.
Section 3.18 Tie Vote:
   If, at any city election, there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two (2) or more persons having received an equal number of votes,
then the Commission shall name a date for the appearance of such person for the
purpose of determining the election of such candidate by lot as provided by
state law. Should any person or persons fail or refuse to appear, in person or
by representative, to determine the result of any tie election at the time and
place named by the Commission, such determination shall be made by lot in his
or their absence and under the supervision of the Commission. Such
determination shall, in any event, be final.
Section 3.19 Absentee Ballot:
   The electors of the City shall be entitled to vote by absentee ballot at any
city election under the circumstances and in the manner provided by law.
CHAPTER 4: ORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT
Section 4.1 The Commission:
   There shall be a Commission of seven members, one of whom shall serve as
Mayor. The commission shall constitute the legislative and governing body of
the city and shall have power and authority, except as otherwise provided in
this charter or by statute, to exercise all powers conferred upon or possessed
by the city and shall have the power and authority to adopt such laws,
ordinances and resolutions as it shall deem proper in the exercise thereof. In
all cases where the word “Commission” is used in this charter, the same shall
be synonymous with any other term used in any statute or federal law in
referring to municipal legislative or governing bodies.
Section 4.2 Remuneration of Members of the Commission:
   The City Commission shall, by resolution, establish the salary that the
Mayor receives and that each City Commissioner shall receive for his or her
services to the City per meeting actually attended by him or her. The Mayor and
Commissioners shall be paid semi-annually and such payments shall constitute
the only salary or remuneration which may be paid for services performed by the
Mayor or any Commissioner for the discharge of any official duty for or on
behalf of the City during their term of office. Upon authorization of the
Commission, reasonable expense may be allowed when actually incurred on behalf
of the City.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 4.3 Selection of Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem:
   The Commission shall at the first regular or special meeting following the
certification of the election results, elect one (1) of its members to serve as
Mayor and one (1) to serve as Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall perform
the duties of the Mayor when on account of absence from the city, disability,
or otherwise, the Mayor is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his/her
office, and in case of vacancy in the office of Mayor, until such vacancy is
filled by the Commission. The Mayor Pro Tem shall preside over the meetings of
the Commission at the call of the Mayor. In the event of a vacancy occurring in
the office of Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem, the Commission shall appoint one of its
elected members to fill such vacancy.
(Amended 11-17-20)
Section 4.2 Duties of Mayor:
   The duties of the Mayor shall be as follows:
   (a)   Insofar as required by statute, and for all ceremonial purposes, he
shall be the executive head of the city;
   (b)   He shall have a voice and vote in the proceedings of the Commission
equal with that of the other members of the Commission, but shall have no veto
power. He shall be the presiding officer of the Commission.
   (c)   He shall be the conservator of the peace and may in emergencies
exercise within the city the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress riot
and disorder, and shall have the authority to command the assistance of all
able-bodied citizens to aid in the enforcement of the ordinances of the city
and to suppress riot and disorder.
   (d)   He shall execute or authenticate by his signature such instruments as
the commission, this charter or any statute or law of the United States shall
require.
   (e)   He shall exercise only such powers as this charter or the commission
shall specifically confer upon him, except as may be required by statute.
Section 4.5 City Manager:
   All administrative powers, duties, and functions of the city shall be vested
in the City Manager, except as otherwise provided in this charter. He shall be
appointed by the Commission on the basis of training and ability in the work
which would qualify him for the position of City Manager, and shall hold office
at the pleasure of the Commission. He need not be a resident of the city at the
time of his appointment but shall, unless excused by the Commission, become a
resident of the City within ninety (90) days after his appointment and so
remain throughout his tenure of office. The City Manager, may, with the
approval of the Commission designate an administrative officer or employee of
the city to perform the duties of the City Manager during his temporary absence
or incapacity. The Commission shall designate a qualified person to perform the
duties of City Manager during a vacancy in the office. No person acting as City
Manager in a temporary capacity, whether during the absence or disability of
the City Manager or during a vacancy in that office, shall make any change in
the administrative officers of the City without the consent of the Commission.
No person who holds or has held any elective city office shall be eligible for
appointment as City Manager or acting City Manager, nor shall any such person
perform the duties of the City Manager during a vacancy in that office until
two (2) years have elapsed following the expiration of the term for which he
was elected.
Section 4.6 Functions of the City Manager:
   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
government. He shall carry out the policies formulated by the Commission. He is
charged with the responsibilities of supervision and management of all of the
services of the city and with responsibility for the enforcement of the
ordinances of the city, this charter, and applicable laws of the State. He
shall make the reports to the Commission required by this Charter, and such
others as may be required of him by ordinance or by resolution of the
Commission, and, in addition thereto, any which he may deem advisable. He shall
prepare the budget of the city for consideration by the Commission, as in the
charter provided, and upon the adoption thereof by the Commission, as in this
charter provided; he shall administer the budget so adopted and keep the
Commission at all times informed as to the financial affairs of the city. He
shall have the right to take part in the discussion of all matters coming
before the Commission, but shall have no vote. In addition to the duties
prescribed by this charter, he shall perform such other duties as may be
required of him by ordinance or by resolution of the Commission.
Section 4.7 Other Administrative Officers:
   In addition to the City Manager, and subordinate to him in the performance
of the duties of their several offices, except the Clerk, Treasurer and City
Attorney insofar as their duties as clerk and treasurer of, and attorney for
the Commission are concerned, the administrative officers of the City shall be
the Clerk, the Treasurer, the Assessor, the City Attorney, the Police Chief,
the Fire Chief, the Health Officer, the Ambulance Director and other officers
included in the administrative plan approved by the Commission.
Section 4.8 Appointment of Administrative Officers and Employees of the City:
   All administrative offices of the City, except the City Manager, the Clerk,
the Treasurer, the Assessor, and the City Attorney, as provided in a general
ordinance covering all the officers other than the Clerk, the Treasurer, the
Assessor, and the City Attorney, with provision in the ordinance for the
filling of vacancies by the City Manager subject to the approval of the City
Commission, said ordinance shall also fix their salaries.
   The City Manager, Treasurer, Clerk and Assessor and City Attorney shall hold
office by virtue of appointment by the Commission which body shall also set
their salaries. They shall hold offices at the pleasure of the Commission.
Section 4.9 Appointment of Other Officers, Heads of Department, and Employees:
   The City Manager shall appoint such other officers, heads of departments,
and employees as may be required by ordinance or resolution of the Commission.
Every appointment of an administrative officer shall be for an indefinite term.
Each officer or department head may name a deputy, subject to the approval of
the City Manager.
Section 4.10 Duties of Administrative Officers:
   All administrative officers of the city shall perform such duties as are
provided for such officers by state law, this charter, the city ordinance, and
the administrative directives of the City Manager. Unless the Commission shall
otherwise provide by ordinance, specifying another officer of the city, the
Clerk shall be the chief accountant and auditor of the city and he, or such
other officer as shall be so designated by the Commission shall, subject to the
direction of the City Manager, maintain a system of accounts which shall
conform to a recognized or uniform system of municipal accounts as required by
law. Each city officer shall exercise and possess all of the powers,
privileges, and immunities granted to city and township officers exercising the
same duties for cities and townships generally under the general laws of the
state.
Section 4.11 City Treasurer:
   (a)   The Treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys of the City, the
Clerk's bond, and all evidences of value or indebtedness belonging to or held
in trust by the City.
   (b)   He shall keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such manner and only
in such places as the Commission may determine, and shall report the same in
detail to the City Manager and Finance Officer.
   (c)   He shall have such powers, duties and prerogatives in regard to the
collection and custody of state, county, school district, and City taxes and
moneys as are provided by law.
   (d)   He shall perform such other duties in connection with his office as
may be required of him by law, the ordinances or resolutions of the Commission,
or by the City Manager.
Section 4.12 City Officers and Employees Benefits:
   The Commission may provide by ordinance for the merit system of personnel
management for employees in the service of the City, and may provide for a
pension system, recognized standard plan of group life, hospital, health or
accident insurance for its appointive officers and employees.
CHAPTER 5: GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL OF THE CITY
Section 5.1 Eligibility for Office in City:
   Any qualified voter who has been a resident of the City for one (1) year and
is not in default thereto, shall be eligible to hold the office of
commissioner.
   The Commission shall be the sole judge of the election and qualification of
its own members.
   All administrative officers shall be citizens of the United States.
   A City Commissioner shall not serve in any department of the City as a
salaried or hourly wage employee.
Section 5.2 Residence Requirements for Appointive Officers:
   Repealed by Resolution No. 2007-18, adopted March 6, 2007, after being
submitted to and approved by the Governor of the State of Michigan.
Section 5.3 Nepotism:
   Except and unless upon unanimous vote of the Commission, relatives by blood
or marriage of any Commissioner, or the City Manager, within the second degree
of cansanquinity or affinity, are bona fide appointive officers or employees of
the city at the time of the election of such officers or appointment of such
City Manager, such relatives shall be disqualified from holding any appointive
office or from being employed by the city during the term for which such
Commissioner, was elected, or during the tenure of office of such City Manager.
If the status of relationship between any employee of the city and any officer
of the city changes to a relationship prohibited hereby after one (1) year
following the employment of such person or election or appointment of such
officer, the provisions of this section shall not apply.
Section 5.4 Vacancies in Office:
   The office of any Commissioner including the Mayor shall be declared vacant
by the Commission before the expiration of the term of such office;
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute or by this charter as creating a
vacancy in office;
   (b)   If no person is elected to, or qualifies for, the office at the
election at which such office is to be filled;
   (c)   If he shall be found guilty by a competent tribunal of any act
constituting misconduct in office under the provisions of this charter;
   (d)   If he shall miss four consecutive regular meetings of the Commission
or twenty-five per cent of such meetings in any fiscal year of the city unless
such absence shall be excused by the commission and the reason therefor entered
in its proceedings at the time of the absence;
   (e)   If he is removed from office by the Commission in accordance with the
provisions of Section
5.5.
   The office of any member of any board or commission created by this charter
shall be declared vacant for reasons (a), (c), or (e) as listed in the
foregoing part of this section.
Section 5.5 Removals from Office:
   Removals of Commissioners (including the Mayor) and members of boards or
commissions created by this charter by the Commission shall be made for either
of the following reasons: (1) for any reason specified by statute for removal
of city officers by the Governor, (2) for any act declared by this charter to
constitute misconduct in office. Such removals by the commission shall be made
only after hearing of which such officer has been given notice by the Clerk at
least ten days in advance either personally or by delivering the same at his
last known place of residence. Such notice shall include a copy of the charges
against such officer. The hearing shall afford an opportunity to the officer,
in person or by attorney, to be heard in his defense, to cross-examine
witnesses and to present testimony. If such officer shall neglect to appear at
such hearing and answer such charges, his failure to do so may be deemed cause
for his removal. A majority vote of the members of the Commission in office at
the time, exclusive of any member whose removal is being considered, shall be
required for any such removal.
Section 5.6 Resignations:
   Resignations of elective and appointive officers shall be made in writing
and filed with the clerk and shall be acted upon by the Commission at its next
regular meeting following receipt thereof by the Clerk.
Section 5.7 Filling Vacancies:
   (a)   Vacancies in offices elective or appointive by the Commission shall be
filled in the manner provided for the original filling of such office.
   (b)   Vacancies in the office of Commissioner or Mayor shall, within sixty
days after such vacancy occurs, be filled for the unexpired term of the officer
whose office has become vacant by appointment by a majority vote of the members
of the Commission then in office of a person possessing the qualifications for
the office.
   If any such vacancy in the position of Commissioner is not so filled within
sixty days, or if three or more vacancies exist simultaneously in such
position, the Clerk shall within ten days thereafter call a special election to
be held within sixty days thereafter to fill such vacancies for the unexpired
terms of the officers whose offices have become vacant and the date thereof
approved by the County Elections Scheduling Committee.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no vacancy in an elective office shall be
filled in any manner if the term of office of the person whose office has
become vacant expires within ninety days after the vacancy occurs. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the filling of vacancies
resulting from recall.
Section 5.8 No Change in Term of Office or Compensation:
   Except by procedures provided in this charter, the terms of Commissioners
and of members of boards or commissions appointed for a definite term shall not
be shortened or extended beyond the period for which the officer was elected or
appointed, except that a Commissioner shall, after his term has expired,
continue to hold office until his successor is elected or appointed and has
qualified. Where several terms of Commissioners expire simultaneously, the
Commissioners who were elected by the highest number of votes (or any appointee
who filled his position) shall be deemed to be succeeded by the candidate who
received the highest number of votes, that Commissioner who was elected by the
second highest number of votes, by the candidate who received the second
highest number of votes, etc.
   The salary of any elective officer shall not be changed from the day he is
elected until the end of the term of office for which he was elected. No
Commissioner shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
Section 5.9 Compensation of Employees and Officers:
   The compensation of all employees and officers of the city whose
compensation is not provided for herein shall be fixed by the Commission by
ordinance within the limits of budget appropriations.
   No officers shall be paid on a fee basis. The respective salaries and
compensation of officers and employees as fixed pursuant to this charter shall
be in full for all official services of such officers or employees and shall be
in lieu of all fees, commissions and other compensation receivable by such
officers or employees for their services.
   Any such fees, commissions and other compensation shall belong to the city
and shall be collected and accounted for by such officers or employees and be
paid into the city treasury and a statement thereof filed periodically with the
Clerk.
   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the payment of necessary
bona fide expenses incurred in service in behalf of the city.
Section 5.10 Oath of Office and Bond:
   Every officer, elective or appointive, before entering upon the duties of
his office shall take the oath of office prescribed for public officers by the
Constitution and shall file the oath with the Clerk, together with any bond
required by statute, this charter or the Commission. In case of failure to
comply with the provisions of this section within ten days from the date he is
notified in writing of his election or appointment, such officer shall be
deemed to have declined the office and such office shall thereupon become
vacant unless the Commission shall, by resolution, extend the time in which
such officer may qualify.
Section 5.11 Surety Bonds.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all officers of the city whose
duties involve the custody of public property or the handling of public funds,
either by way of receipt or disbursement or both and all other officers and
employees so required by the Commission shall, before they enter upon the
duties of their respective offices, file with the city an official bond, in
such form and amount as the Commission shall direct and approve. Such official
bond of every officer and employee shall be conditioned that he will faithfully
perform the duties of his office, and will on demand deliver over to his
successor in office, or other proper officer or an agent of the city all books,
papers, moneys, effects and property belonging thereto, or appertaining to his
office, which may be in his custody as an officer or employee; and such bonds
may be further conditioned as the Commission prescribe. The official bond of
every officer whose duty it may be to receive or pay out money, besides being
conditioned as above required, shall be further conditioned that he will, on
demand, pay over or account for to the city or any proper officer or agent
thereof, all moneys received by him as such officer or employee. The
requirements of this paragraph may be met by the purchase of one of more
appropriate blanket surety bonds covering all, or a group of, city employees
and officers.
   All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums thereon
shall be paid by the city. All bonds of all officers or employees shall be
filed with the Clerk, except that any bond pertaining solely to the Clerk shall
be filed with the Mayor.
Section 5.12 Delivery of Office:
   Whenever any officer or employee shall cease to hold such office or
employment for any reason whatsoever, he shall within five days, or sooner on
demand, deliver to his successor in office or to his superior all the books,
papers, moneys, equipment owned by city and effects in his custody as such
officer or employee. Any officer violating this provision may be proceeded
against in the same manner as public officers generally for a like offense
under statute. Any employee found guilty of violating this provision by a
competent tribunal may be punished in accordance with statute.
CHAPTER 6 FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION
Section 6.1 Public Health and Safety:
   Through the established departments and agencies of the City government,
together with any such departments or agencies as may be created under
authority of this charter, the Commission shall provide for the public peace
and health and for the safety of persons and property.
Section 6.2 Police Department:
   The Commission shall maintain, within the administrative division of the
city, a city police force which shall be under the direction of the City
Manager, to enforce all laws and ordinances which are in force in the city and
to preserve peace and good order in the city.
Section 6.3 Fire Department:
   The Commission shall have power to enact such ordinances and to establish
and enforce such regulations as it shall deem necessary to guard against the
occurrence of fires in the city and to protect the property and persons of the
inhabitants of the city against damage and accident resulting therefrom. For
this purpose the Commission may establish, organize, and maintain, within the
administrative division of the city, a fire department. Provided, however, that
until otherwise provided by ordinance passed by a five-sevenths (5/7) vote of
the Commission, the fire department of the city shall be and remain as now
organized and the City Manager shall be limited in his appointment of the Fire
Chief to nominations made by the members of the fire department.
Section 6.4 Ambulance Service:
   The Commission may maintain within the administrative division of the city
an ambulance service, which shall be under the direction of the City Manager.
Section 6.5 Health:
   Repealed by Resolution No. 2007-20, adopted March 6, 2007, after being
submitted to and approved by the Governor of the State of Michigan.
Section 6.6 Meetings of the Commission:
   (a)   The Commission shall provide by resolution for the time and place of
its regular meetings and shall hold at least two (2) regular meetings each
month. If any time set for the holding of a regular meeting of the Commission
shall be a holiday then such regular meeting shall be held on the next secular
day which is not a holiday.
   (b)   Special meeting of the Commission shall be called by the Clerk on the
written request of the Mayor or of any two (2) members of the Commission, on at
least twenty-four (24) hours written notice to each member of the Commission,
designating the time, place, and purpose of any meeting and served personally
or left at his usual place of residence by the Clerk or someone designated by
him. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements for the calling of special
meetings, any special meeting of the Commission at which all members of the
Commission are present or have in writing, waived the requirement that notice
be given at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time specified for the
holding of such meeting and at which a quorum of the Commission is present,
shall be a legal meeting.
   (c)   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the
Commission unless the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting.
However, if all members of the Commission are present at any special meeting of
the Commission, then any business which might lawfully come before a regular
meeting of the Commission may be transacted at such special meeting.
   (d)   All regular and special meetings of the Commission shall be open to
the public and the rules of order of the Commission shall provide that citizens
shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard. Public notice shall be given
according to state statute. Executive sessions may be held as provided by law.
   (e)   Four (4) members of the Commission shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business at all meetings of the Commission, but, in the absence
of a quorum, the Mayor or any two (2) members may adjourn any regular or
special meeting to a later date.
   (f)   Except that there shall be no standing committees of the Commission,
the Commission shall determine its own rules and order of business and shall
keep a journal of all of its proceedings in the English language which shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Clerk. The vote upon the passage of all ordinances,
and upon the adoption of all resolutions shall be taken by “Yes” and “No” votes
and entered upon the record, except that where the vote is unanimous, it shall
only be necessary to so state. Each member of the Commission who shall be
recorded as present shall vote on all questions decided by the Commission
unless excused by the unanimous consent of the other members present. Any
citizen or taxpayer of the city shall have access to the minutes and records of
all regular and special meetings of the Commission at all reasonable times.
   (g)   The Commission may, by vote of not less than two (2) of its members,
compel the attendance of its members and other officers of the city at its
regular and special meetings and enforce orderly conduct therein; and any
member of the Commission or other officer of the City who refuses to attend
such meetings or conduct himself in an orderly manner thereof shall be deemed
guilty of misconduct in office. The Chief of Police shall serve as the
Sergeant-at-Arms of the Commission in the enforcement of the provisions of this
section.
Section 6.7 Investigations:
   The Commission, or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office or
officer of the city and to make investigations as to municipal affairs, and for
that purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the
production of books, papers and other evidence. Failure on the part of any
officer of the city to obey such subpoena or to produce books, papers, or other
evidence as ordered under the provision of this section shall constitute
misconduct in office. If such failure shall be on the part of any employee of
the city, the same shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Section 6.8 Restriction on the Commission:
   (a)   Except for the purpose of inquiry, and in case of emergency during the
temporary absence or disability of the City Manager, the Commission and its
members shall deal with the administrative service solely through the City
Manager and neither the Commission nor any member thereof shall give orders to
any subordinate of the City Manager, either publicly or privately; neither
shall any member of the Commission direct or request; (1) except for the
election of those administrative officers required to be elected by the
Commission, the appointment of any person to, or the removal of, any person
from any employment or office for which the City Manager is responsible; nor
(2) except at public meetings and in cases of letting of contracts, the
purchase of any specific materials, supplies or equipment. It is not the
intention of this provision to prevent frank discussion of the business of the
City between the City Manager and the Commission or any member of the
Commission at any time, but to prevent the personal favoritism or prejudice of
any member of the Commission from hampering the administration of the city
government as set forth in this charter.
   (b)   No member of the Commission shall vote on any question in which he has
a financial interest, other than the common public interest, or on any question
concerning his own conduct, but on all other questions each member who is
present shall vote when his name is called unless excused by the unanimous
consent of the remaining members present. Any member refusing to vote except
when not so required by this paragraph shall be guilty of misconduct in office.
CHAPTER 7: CITY LEGISLATION
Section 7.1 Ordinance Enactment:
   All legislation of the City of Imlay City shall be by ordinance or by
resolution. The word “resolution” as used in this charter shall be the official
action of the Commission in the form of a motion, and such action shall be
limited to matters required or permitted to be done by resolution by this
charter or by state or Federal law and to matters pertaining to the internal
affairs or concerns of the city government. All other acts of the Commission,
and all acts carrying a penalty for the violation thereof, shall be by
ordinance. Each ordinance shall be identified by a number and a short title.
Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed form. The
style of all ordinances passed by the Commission shall be, “The City of Imlay
City Ordains.” Except in the case of ordinances which are declared by the
Commission to be emergency ordinances, no ordinances shall be finally passed by
the Commission at the same meeting at which it is introduced. No ordinance
shall be revised, altered or amended by reference to its title only, but the
section or sections of the ordinance revised, altered or amended shall be
reenacted and published at length and all ordinances, when enacted shall be
immediately recorded by the Clerk in a book called “The Ordinance Book;” and it
shall be the duty of the Mayor and Clerk to authenticate such record by their
official signature thereon.
   An ordinance may be repealed only by an ordinance passed in the manner
provided in this section except that the ordinance to be repealed may be
referred to by its number and title only.
Section 7.2 Penalties:
   The commission shall provide in each ordinance for the punishment of those
who violate its provisions. No punishment for the violation of any City
ordinance or for the commission by any officer of the City of any act declared
by this Charter to constitute misconduct in office shall exceed a fine of Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for 90 days, or both in the
discretion of the court, except that any officer of the City found guilty of
any act declared by this Charter to constitute misconduct in office, shall, in
addition to such fine or imprisonment, or both, forfeit his office.
Section 7.3 Publication of Ordinances:
   Each ordinance passed by the Commission shall be published at least once
within fifteen (15) days after its adoption by the Commission. All ordinances
of the city shall become effective immediately upon the publication thereof,
unless a date upon which an ordinance shall become effective, which is
subsequent to the date of the publication thereof, is specifically provided in
the ordinance itself. The publication of any ordinance in full after its final
passage as a part of the published proceedings of the Commission shall
constitute publication of such ordinance as required herein.
Section 7.4 Special Procedure on Vote on Certain Commission Actions:
   (a)   Action to vacate, discontinue or abolish any highway, street, lane,
alley or other public place, or part thereof, shall be by resolution. After the
introduction of such resolution and before its final adoption, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing thereon and shall publish notice of such hearing at
least one week prior thereto.
   (b)   The following actions shall require the affirmative vote of five
members of the Commission for the effectiveness thereof;
      (1)   Vacating, discontinuing or abolishing any highway, street, lane,
alley or other public place or part thereof;
      (2)   Leasing, selling or disposing of any city-owned real estate or
interest therein;
      (3)   Condemning private property for public use;
      (4)   Creating or abolishing any office;
      (5)   Appropriating any money;
      (6)   Imposing any tax or assessment;
      (7)   Reconsidering or rescinding any vote of the Commission.
Section 7.5 Technical Codes:
   Ordinances and codes may be enacted by reference to the extent and in the
manner provided by state law and more specifically set forth in 117.3 (K)
Michigan Compiled Laws.
Section 7.6 Franchise and Contracts:
   Every ordinance or resolution granting any franchise or right to occupy or
use the streets, highways, bridges, or public places in the city for any
purpose shall be complete in the form in which it is finally passed, and remain
on file with the Clerk for public inspection for at least one (1) week before
the final passage or adoption thereof. The city shall not have power to grant
any exclusive right or privilege under the government of the City.
Section 7.7 Compilation:
   (a)   Copies of all ordinances enacted and amendments to the city charter
adopted after the effective date of this charter shall be available at the
office of the Clerk.
   (b)   Within two (2) years after the adoption of this charter and at least
once in every ten (10) years the Commission shall direct and complete the
compilation or codification and the publication of the charter and of all
ordinances of the city then in force, in loose-leaf or pamphlet form, and may
provide for a reasonable charge for copies thereof. No further publication of
any such compilation or codification shall be required for the validity
thereof. In case the compilation or codification of the ordinances of the city
shall have been maintained current and up-to-date during any ten (10) year
period, no re-compilation or re-codification of the ordinances of the city
shall be required during or at the end of such period.
   The copies of ordinances and of any compilation, code, or codes referred to
in this charter may be certified by the Clerk, and, when so certified, shall be
competent evidence in all courts and legally established tribunals as to the
matters contained therein.
Section 7.8 Initiative and Referendum:
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum on an ordinance
enacted by the Commission may be had, by a petition, as hereinafter provided.
Section 7.9 Petitions:
   An initiatory or a referendary petition shall be signed by not less than
fifteen (15) per cent of the registered electors of the city who have signed
said petition within six (6) months before the date of filing the petition with
the Clerk. Before being circulated for signatures, all such petitions may be
approved as to form by the Clerk. No such petition need be on one paper, but
may be the aggregate of two (2) or more petition papers. Each signer of a
petition shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil, and shall place
thereon, after his name, the date and his place of residence by street and
number, or by other customary designation. To each petition paper there shall
be attached a sworn affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of
signers thereto and that each signature of the person whose name it purports to
be, and that it was made in the presence of the affiant. Such petition shall be
filed with the Clerk who shall, within ten (10) days, canvass the signatures
thereon to determine the sufficiency thereof. If found to contain an
insufficient number of signatures of registered electors of the city or to be
improper as to form or compliance with the provisions of this section, the
Clerk shall notify forthwith the person filing such petition, and ten (10) days
from such notification shall be allowed for the filing of supplemental petition
papers. When found sufficient and proper, the Clerk shall present the petition
to the Commission at its next regular meeting.
Section 7.10 Commission Procedure:
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the Clerk, the
Commission shall within thirty (30) days, either;
   (a)   If it be an initiatory petition, adopt the ordinance as submitted in
the petition or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the city;
or
   (b)   If it be a referendary petition, repeal the ordinance to which the
petition refers or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the
city;
Section 7.11 Submission to Electors:
   Should the Commission decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it
shall be submitted at the next election held in the city for any other purpose,
or, in the discretion of the Commission, at a special election. The result
shall be determined by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon, except
in cases where otherwise required by the constitution or laws of the State of
Michigan.
Section 7.12 Ordinance Suspended:
   The certification by the Clerk of the sufficiency of a referendary petition
within thirty (30) days after passage of the ordinance to which such petition
refers shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance in question
pending repeal by the Commission or final determination by the electors as the
case may be. An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory
proceedings may not be amended or repealed by the Commission for a period of
two (2) years after the date of the election at which it was adopted. Should
two (2) or more ordinances adopted at the same election, have conflicting
provisions, the one receiving the highest vote shall prevail as to those
provisions.
CHAPTER 8: GENERAL FINANCE
Section 8.1 Fiscal Year:
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July and end on
the 30th day of June of the following year. Such year shall constitute the
budget year of the city government.
Section 8.2 Budget Procedure:
   On or before the first Monday in March, each city officer shall submit to
the City Manager an itemized estimate of the expenditures for the next fiscal
year, for the department or activities under his control. The City Manager
shall prepare a complete itemized budget proposal for the next fiscal year and
shall submit it to the Commission at its first meeting in April.
Section 8.3 Budget Document:
   The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year. It shall include at least the following information:
   (a)   Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for each department
and office of the city showing the expenditures for corresponding items for the
current and last preceding fiscal year, with reasons for increases and
decreases recommended, as compared with appropriations for the current year:
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the city, showing
the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any.
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated income of the city from sources
other than taxes and borrowing, with a comparative statement of the amounts
received by the city from each of the same or similar sources for the last
preceding and current fiscal year;
   (d)   A statement of the estimated balance or deficit, as the case may be,
for the end of the current fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which, together
with income from other sources, will be necessary to meet the proposed
expenditures and commitments of the city government during the ensuing year.
   (f)   Such other supporting schedules as the Commission may deem necessary.
Section 8.4 Budget Hearing:
   A copy of the budget proposal shall be on file and available to the public
in the office of the Clerk during office hours for a period of not less than
one (1) week prior to the adoption of the budget by the Commission. Notice of
the requirement that the budget proposal is so required to be filed shall be
published by the Clerk in a legal newspaper having a bona fide list of paying
subscribers not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the adoption of the budget
by the Commission: Provided, however, that failure to give such notice shall
not invalidate the adoption of any budget.
Section 8.5 Adoption of Budget, Tax Limit:
   Not later than the second Monday in May, the Commission shall, by
resolution, adopt the budget for the next fiscal year and shall, in such
resolution make an appropriation of the money needed for municipal purposes
during the ensuing year of the City and provide for a levy of the amount
necessary to be raised by taxes upon real and personal property for municipal
purposes, which levy shall not exceed two (2) percent of the assessed valuation
of all real and personal property subject to taxation in the City. The levy so
provided shall be known and referred to as the Charter tax rate of the City of
Imlay City and shall be subject to all provisions of State law and the Michigan
Constitution pertaining thereto.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 8.6 Transfer of Appropriations:
   After the budget has been adopted, no money shall be drawn from the treasury
of the city nor shall any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred,
except pursuant to the budget appropriations. The Commission may transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from one
department, fund, or agency to another. The balance in any appropriation which
has not been encumbered at the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the
general fund and be reappropriated during the next fiscal year.
Section 8.7 Budget Control:
   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and more
often if required by the Commission, the City Manager shall submit to the
Commission data showing the relation between the estimated and actual income
and expenses to date; and if it shall appear that the income is less than
anticipated, the Commission may reduce appropriations, except amounts required
for debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep
expenditures within the cash income.
Section 8.8 Depository:
   The Commission shall designate the depository or depositories for city
funds, and shall provide for the regular deposit of all city moneys. The
Commission shall provide for such security for city deposits as is authorized
or permitted by the general laws of the state, except that personal surety
bonds shall not be deemed proper security.
Section 8.9 Independent Audit:
   An independent audit shall be made of all city accounts at least annually
and more frequently if deemed necessary by the Commission. Such audit shall be
made by an independent accountant experienced in public accounting to be
selected by the Commission.
CHAPTER 9: TAXATION
Section 9.1 Power to Tax and Secure Revenue:
   In order to carry out the purposes, powers, and duties of the city
government established by this charter, the city may assess, levy, and collect
taxes, rents, tolls, and excise, or specific taxes including all powers now or
hereafter granted to cities by the State of Michigan.
Section 9.2 Subjects of Taxation:
   The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same
as for state, county, and school purposes under the general law. Except as
otherwise provided by this charter, city taxes shall be levied, collected, and
returned in the manner provided by state law.
Section 9.3 Assessment:
   Unless otherwise provided by state law, the first day of January in each
year shall be the assessment day for both real and personal property in the
city.
Section 9.4 Time for Making Assessment Rolls:
   The Assessor shall make and complete an assessment roll of the City in the
manner and form provided in the general tax law of the State, not later than
the last Monday in February of each year, on which date he or she shall file
such roll with the Clerk for public inspection during the normal office hours
of the Clerk until the date of the convening of the Board of Review, on which
date the Clerk shall turn such assessment roll over to the Board of Review.
Section 9.5 Board of Review:
   The Board of Review shall be appointed by the Commission and shall be
comprised of three (3) persons having the qualifications required by this
charter for officers of the city, who are tax payers to the city, and have been
residents of the city for not less than three (3) years. In the first instance,
the full Board shall be appointed, one (1) to serve for a term of one (1) year,
one (1) to serve for a term of two (2) years, and one (1) to serve for a term
of three (3) years. Thereafter, the Commission shall, annually, the last
Commission meeting in March appoint one (1) member of the Board to serve for a
full term of three (3) years. The Commission shall set the compensation of the
Board of Review.
Section 9.6 Meeting of Board of Review:
   The Board of Review shall convene on such dates and times and at such place
as shall, by resolution, be designated by the Commission and shall continue its
session from day to day for the purpose of considering and correcting the roll
for as many days as directed and designated by the Commission. The Board shall
remain in session during such hours as the Commission may designate.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 9.7 Organization and Functions of the Board of Review:
   On the first day of its meeting in each year, the Board of Review shall
elect one of its members chairman. The Assessor shall be Secretary of the Board
and shall attend its meetings with the privilege of participating therein, but
without the right to vote upon any decision of the Board. It shall be the duty
of the Assessor to keep a permanent record of all proceedings, and to enter
therein all resolutions and decisions of the Board. Such record shall be filed
with the Clerk within thirty (30) days after the adjournment of the Board. A
majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
   The members of said Board shall take the constitutional oath of office which
shall be filed with the Clerk. For the purpose of reviewing and correcting
assessments, the Board of Review shall have the same powers and perform like
duties in all respects as are by the general tax law conferred upon and
required of boards of review in townships, in reviewing assessments in
townships for township, state and county taxes. It shall hear the complaints of
all persons considering themselves aggrieved by assessments, and if it shall
appear that any person or property has been wrongfully assessed, or omitted
from the roll, the Board shall correct the roll in such manner as it shall deem
just. In all cases, the assessment roll shall be reviewed according to the
facts existing on the assessment day and no change of the status of any
property after said day shall be considered by the Board in making its
decisions. Except as otherwise provided by state law, no person other than the
Board of Review shall make or authorize any change up on or additions or
corrections to the assessment roll.
Section 9.8 Endorsement of Roll - Validity:
   After the Board shall complete its review of the assessment roll, and on or
before the first Commission meeting in March in each year, a majority of its
members shall endorse and sign a statement to the effect that the same is the
assessment roll of the city for the year in which it has been prepared. The
omission of such endorsement shall not affect the validity of such roll. Upon
the completion of said roll and from and after midnight following the last day
of the meeting of the Board of Review, the same shall be the assessment roll of
the city for city taxes on real and personal property that may be authorized by
law and under the provisions of this charter and shall be conclusively presumed
by all courts and tribunals to be valid and shall not be set aside except for
causes set forth in the general laws of the state.
Section 9.9 Clerk to Certify Levy:
   Within three (3) days after the Commission has adopted the budget for the
ensuing year, the Clerk shall certify to the Assessor the total amount which
the Commission determines shall be raised by general tax; all amounts of
special assessments which the Commission required to be assessed or re-assessed
upon any property or against any person; and all other amounts which the
Commission may determine shall be charged, assessed, or re-assessed against any
person or property.
Section 9.10 City Tax Roll:
   After the last day for the meeting of the Board of Review, the Assessor
shall, upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to be raised, as
provided in the preceding section, proceed forthwith to spread upon the
assessment roll the several amounts determined by the Commission to be charged,
assessed, or re-assessed against persons or property; and shall also proceed to
spread the amounts of the general city tax according to and in proportion to
the several valuations set forth in said assessment roll. For the purpose of
avoiding fractions in computation, the Assessor may add to the amount of the
several taxes to be raised not more than one (1) percent; said excess shall
belong to the city.
Section 9.11 Tax Roll Certified for Collection:
   After extending the taxes aforesaid and not later than the 15th day of June
in each year, the Assessor shall certify said tax roll, and the Mayor shall
annex his warrant thereto, directing and requiring the Treasurer to collect
from the several persons named in said roll the several sums mentioned therein
opposite their respective names as a tax or assessment, and granting to him,
for the purpose of collecting the taxes, assessments, and charges on such roll,
all the power and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the
collection of taxes under the general laws of the state.
Section 9.12 Taxes Lien on Property:
   The city taxes thus assessed shall become at once a debt due to the city
from the persons to whom they are assessed, and the amounts assessed on any
interest in real property shall on the first day of July become a lien upon
such real property, and the lien for such amounts and for all interest and
other charges thereon shall continue until payment thereof. All personal taxes
shall also be a first lien, prior, superior, and paramount, upon all personal
property of the persons so assessed from and after the first day of July in
each year and shall so remain until paid, which said tax liens shall take
precedence over all other claims, encumbrances and liens upon said personal
property whatsoever, whether created by chattel mortgage, execution, levy,
judgment, or otherwise, and whether arising before or after the assessment of
said personal taxes, and no transfer of personal property assessed for taxes
thereon shall operate to divest or destroy such lien except where such personal
property is actually sold in the regular course of retail trade.
Section 9.13 Taxes Due: Notification:
   The Treasurer shall not be required to call upon the persons named in the
city tax roll, nor to make personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he
shall give notice to the tax payers of the city, by publication in a newspaper
printed and published in the city at least once, which publication of notice
shall be made at least ten (10) days prior to the first day of July in each
year, of the time when said taxes will be due for collection, and shall give
such notice of the time when said taxes will be due for collection by first
class mail addressed to the owners of the property upon which taxes are
assessed according to the names of such owners and their addresses as indicated
on the tax roll, which notice shall be deemed sufficient for the payment of all
taxes on said tax roll. Failure on the part of the Treasurer to give said
notice shall not invalidate the taxes on said tax roll nor release the person
or property assessed from any penalty or interest provided in this chapter in
case of nonpayment of the same.
Section 9.14 Collection of City Taxes:
   City taxes shall be due and payable on the 15th day of September each year.
To all taxes paid after September 15th, there shall be added a four (4) percent
penalty, and to all taxes paid after said date, there shall also be added
interest at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one (1) percent for each month or
fraction of a month intervening between said date and the date of payment, or
the first day of March of the next succeeding calendar year, whichever date
shall occur first. The added penalties and interest herein provided shall
belong to the City, and shall constitute a charge and shall be a lien against
the property to which the taxes themselves apply, collectible in the same
manner as the taxes to which they are added.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 9.15 Delinquent Tax Roll to County Treasurer:
   If the Treasurer has been unable to collect any of the city taxes on said
roll on real property before the first day of March following the date when
said roll was received by him, it shall be his duty to return all such unpaid
taxes on real property to the county treasurer in the same manner and with like
effect as returns by township treasurers of township, school, and county taxes.
Such returns shall be made upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the
Treasurer and shall include all the additional charges and fees hereinbefore
provided, which charges shall, in such return, be added to the amount assessed
in said tax roll against each description. The taxes thus returned shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to the county treasurer
are collected under the provisions of the general laws of the state and shall
be and remain a lien upon the lands against which they are assessed, until
paid.
Section 9.16 Protection of City Lien:
   The city shall have power, insofar as the exercise thereof shall not
conflict with or contravene the provisions of any general law of the State, to
acquire by purchase any premises within the city at any tax or other public
sale, or by direct purchase from the State of Michigan or the fee owner, when
such purchase is necessary to protect the lien of the city for taxes or special
assessments, or both, on said premises and may hold, lease, or sell the same
solely for the purpose of securing therefrom the amount of such taxes or
special assessments, or both, together with any incidental expenses incurred in
connection with the exercise of this power. Any such procedure exercised by the
city in the protection of its tax lien shall be deemed to be for a public
purpose.
Section 9.17
   For the purpose of assessing and levying taxes in the city for all purposes
other than city taxes, the city shall be considered the same as a township and
except as otherwise provided in this charter, all provisions of state law
relative to the collection of such taxes, the accounting therefore to the
appropriate taxing units, and the returning of delinquent taxes to the county
treasurer for collection, shall apply, and the city treasurer shall have all of
the powers and duties in connection therewith as township treasurers have.
CHAPTER 10: BORROWING POWER
Section 10.1 Grant of Authority to Borrow:
   Subject to the applicable provisions of statute and constitution, the
Commission may by ordinance or resolution borrow money and issue bonds and
other evidence of indebtedness therefor, for any purpose within the scope of
powers vested in the city. Such bonds or other evidences of indebtedness shall
include, but not be limited to, the following types:
   (a)   General obligation bonds which pledge the full faith, credit and
resources of the City for the payment of such obligations, including bonds for
the city's portion of public improvements;
   (b)   Notes issued in anticipation of the collection of taxes, but the
proceeds of such notes may be spent only in accordance with appropriations as
provided by Section
8.6.
   (c)   In case of fire, flood or other calamity requiring an emergency fund
for the relief of the inhabitants of the city, or for the repairing or
rebuilding of any of its municipal buildings, works, bridges or streets,
emergency obligations therefor due in not more than three years;
   (d)   Bonds issued in anticipation of special assessment district, or may be
both an obligation of such special assessment district or districts, and the
general obligation of the city;
   (e)   Mortgage bonds for the acquiring, owning, purchasing, constructing or
operating of any public utility as provided in Article 8, Section 23, of the
Constitution; provided such bonds shall not impose any liability upon the city
but shall be secured only upon the property and revenues of such public
utility, including a franchise, stating the terms upon which, in case of
foreclosure, the purchaser may operate the same, which franchise shall in no
case extend for a longer period than twenty years from the date of the sale of
such utility and franchise on foreclosure. Such mortgage bonds shall be sold to
yield not to exceed six per cent per annum. A sinking fund shall be created in
the event of the issuance of such bonds, by setting aside such percentage of
the gross or net earnings of the public utility as may be deemed sufficient for
such payment.
   (f)   Bonds for the refunding of the funded indebtedness of the city;
   (g)   Revenue bonds as authorized by Public Act 94 of 1933 which are secured
only by the revenues from a public improvement and do not constitute a general
obligation of the city;
Section 10.2 Limits of Borrowing Powers:
   The net bonded indebtedness incurred for all public purposes shall not at
any time exceed ten per cent of the assessed value of all the real and personal
property in the city subject to taxation as shown by the last preceding
assessment roll of the city provided that in computing such net bonded
indebtedness there shall be excluded money borrowed under the following
sections:
10.1 (b) (tax anticipation notes),
10.1 (d) (special assessment bonds even though they are also a general
obligation of the city),
10.1 (e) (mortgage bonds),
10.1 (g) (revenue bonds), and any other obligations excluded by statute or
constitution from such limitation. The resources of the sinking fund pledged
for the retirement of any outstanding bonds shall also be deducted from the
amount of the bonded indebtedness.
   The amount of emergency loans which the Commission make under the provision
of Section
10.1 (c) may not exceed one-fourth of one percent of the assessed value of all
the real and personal property in the city (or such larger percentage as cities
may by statute be permitted to provide in their charter) notwithstanding such
loan may increase the indebtedness of the city beyond the limitation fixed in
the preceding paragraph.
   The total amount of such special assessment bonds issued under Section
10.1 (e) which are a general obligation of the city shall at no time by reason
of future issues, other than issues of refunding bonds, exceed the statutory
limitations thereon, nor shall such bonds be issued in any calendar year in
excess of the amount so permitted to be issued by statute unless authorized by
a vote of the electors in the manner provided by statute.
Section 10.3 Vote of Electors Required:
   Unless approved by majority of the electors voting thereon at any general or
special election, the Commission shall not have the power to authorize any
issue of bonds except special assessment bonds, bonds for the city portion of
local improvements, not to exceed forty percent of the cost of such
improvement, refunding bonds, bonds for relief from fire, flood or calamity,
for payment of judgments, revenue bonds and other bonds excluded by statute
from the requirement for such vote. Only those electors having the
Constitutional qualifications for voting on the approval of bond issues shall
be entitled to vote on such question.
Section 10.4 Preparation and Record of Bonds:
   Every bond issued by the city shall contain on its face a statement
specifying the object for which the same is issued. It shall be unlawful for
any officer of the city to sign or issue any such bond unless such statement is
set forth on the face of the same, or to use such bonds or the proceeds from
the sale thereof for any object other than that mentioned on the face of such
bond. Any officer who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of misconduct in office.
   Bonds and all other evidences of indebtedness issued by the city shall be
signed by the Mayor and Clerk under the seal of the city. The coupons
evidencing the interest upon said bonds may be executed with the facsimile
signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk. A complete and detailed record of all
bonds shall be kept by the Clerk.
   Upon the payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the same
shall be canceled.
Section 10.5 Unissued Bonds:
   Any authorization by the electors for the issuance of bonds by the city
shall be void if such bonds shall not be issued within three years from the
date of such authorization.
Section 10.6 Installment Payment Contracts:
   The Commission may enter into installment contracts for the purchase of
property or capital equipment. Each of such contracts shall not extend over a
greater period than 15 years nor shall the total amount of principal payment
under all such contracts exceed the sum permitted by law. All such deferred
payments shall be included in the budget for the year in which the installment
is payable.
(Amended 3-13-95)
CHAPTER 11: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, CONTRACTS, SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section 11.1 City May Perform Public Work:
   The Commission shall have power to do any public work or make any public
improvement by the employment of the necessary labor and the purchase of the
necessary supplies and materials with separate accounting as to each
improvement so made, or to do such work by contract duly let after competitive
bidding. The Commission shall also have the power to do any public work or make
any public improvement under any legally constituted plan under which the labor
is furnished by any other governmental unit, department, or agency of the
United States or the State of Michigan, or which is wholly or in part financed
by them or either of them.
Section 11.2 Purchasing and Contractual Procedure:
   The City Commission shall, by resolution, establish the procedures for
making purchases of, and contracting for supplies, materials, equipment and
services.
(Amended 5-8-07)
Section 11.3 General Powers Relative to Special Assessments:
   The Commission shall have the power to determine the necessity of any local
or public improvement, and to determine that the whole or any part of the
expense shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted: Provided, that such expense shall, in each case, be substantially
in accordance with and in proportion to such benefits derived by such property.
Section 11.4 Cost of Acquired Property Added:
   Whenever any property is acquired by condemnation, or otherwise, for the
purpose of any public improvement, the cost thereof, and of the proceedings
required to acquire such property, may be added to the cost of such
improvement.
Section 11.5 Additional Assessments, Refunds:
   When any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to meet the costs
of the improvement for which it was made, the Commission may make an additional
pro rata assessment, but the total amount assessed shall not exceed the value
of benefits received by any lot or parcel of land. Should the assessment prove
larger than necessary to five (5) per cent or less, the Commission may place
the excess in the city treasury. If more than five (5) per cent, the excess
shall be refunded pro rata according to assessments. In either case, the
Commission may provide by resolution that the amount of any such excess may be
allowed as a credit on the last installment where such installment still
remains unpaid at the time the final cost of the improvement is determined.
Section 11.6 Lien in Collection of Special Assessments:
   Upon the confirmation of each special assessment roll, the special
assessment shall become a debt to the City from the persons to whom they are
assessed and shall, until paid, be a lien upon the property assessed for the
amount of such assessments and all interest and charges thereon. Such lien
shall be of the same character and effect as created by the Charter for City
taxes.
   The Commission shall prescribe, by general ordinance, a complete special
assessment collection procedure which shall set forth and include the date upon
which such special assessment shall become due, the maximum number of annual
installments, the date the initial and subsequent installment payments shall be
due, the interest rates such special assessments shall bear whether paid or
unpaid, and the date from which interest is computed. The City Commission may
also provide by general ordinance, the collection procedure for advance
payments of unpaid installments with interest computed. Further, the Commission
may set forth the collection procedure for said installment payments, and the
determination process under which said installment payments shall be considered
delinquent and whether any additional interest shall be charged thereon.
(Amended 11-3-98)
Section 11.7 Procedure to be Fixed by Ordinance:
   The Commission shall prescribe, by general ordinance a complete special
assessment procedure concerning the initiation of projects, plans and
specifications, estimates of costs, notice and hearings, the making and
confirming of the assessment rolls and the correction of errors therein, the
financing of improvements made by special assessment procedures, the collection
of special assessments, and any other matters concerning the making of such
improvements.
Section 11.8 Contested Assessments:
   Except and unless notice is given to the Commission in writing of an
intention to contest or enjoin the collection of any special assessment for the
construction of any pavement, sewer, or other public improvement, the
construction of any sidewalk, or the removal or abatement of any public hazard
or nuisance, within thirty (30) days after the date of the meeting of the
Commission at which it is finally determined to proceed with the making of the
improvement in question, which notice shall state the grounds on which the
proceedings are to be contested, no suit or action of any kind shall be
instituted or maintained for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the
collection of such special assessment; and, regardless of whether or not any
public improvement is completed in any special assessment district, no owner of
real property located in such district shall be entitled to commence any suit
or action for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any such
special assessment after he has received a benefit from the substantial
completion of that portion of such public improvement for which he is assessed.
Section 11.9 Special Assessment Accounts:
   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, monies raised by special
assessment for any public improvement shall be segregated in a special fund or
account and may be used only to pay for the costs of the improvements for which
the assessment was levied and expenses incidental thereto or to repay any money
borrowed therefor.
CHAPTER 12: MUNICIPALLY OWNED UTILITIES
Section 12.1 General Powers Respecting Utilities:
   The City, shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by statute and Constitution to acquire, construct, own, operate,
improve, enlarge, extend, repair and maintain, either within or without its
corporate limits, including, but not by the way of limitation, public utilities
for supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage treatment and garbage
disposal facilities, or any of them, to the municipality and the inhabitant
thereof; and also to sell and deliver water, light, heat, power, gas and other
public utility service without its corporate limits to an amount not to exceed
the limitations set by statute and Constitution.
Section 12.2 Management of Municipally Owned Utilities:
   All municipally owned utilities shall be administered as a regular
department of the city government under one or more department heads appointed
by, and serving at the pleasure of, the Commission and not by an independent
board or commission.
Section 12.3 Rates:
   The Commission shall have power to fix from time to time such just and
reasonable rates as may be deemed advisable for supplying the inhabitants of
the city and others with such public utility services as the city may provide.
There shall be no discrimination in such rates within any classification of
users thereof, nor shall free service be permitted, but higher rates may be
charged for service outside the city limits.
Section 12.4 Utility Rates and Charges - Collection:
   The Commission shall provide by ordinance for the collection of all public
utility rates and charges made by the city. With respect to water, the city
shall have all the powers granted to cities by Public Act 178 of 1939 as
amended. When any person, firm or corporation shall fail or refuse to pay any
sums due on utility bills, the service upon which such delinquency exists may
be discontinued and suit may be instituted by the city for the collection of
the same in any competent tribunal.
Section 12.5 Disposal of Utility Plants and Property:
   Unless approved by a three-fifths majority vote of the electors voting
thereon at a regular or special election, the city shall not sell, exchange,
lease or in any way dispose of any property, easements, equipment, privilege or
asset belonging to and appertaining to any municipally owned public utility
which is needed to continue operating such utility. All contracts,
negotiations, licenses, grants, leases or other forms of transfer in violation
of this section shall be void and of no effect as against the city. The
restrictions of this section shall not apply to the sale or exchange of any
articles of machinery or equipment of any city owned public utility which are
worn out or useless or which have been, or could with advantage to the service
be, replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment, to the leasing of
property not necessary for the operation of the utility, or to the exchange of
property or easements for other needed property or easements.
Section 12.6 Utility Accounts:
   Transactions pertaining to the ownership and operation by the city of each
public utility shall be recorded in a separate group of accounts under an
appropriate fund caption, which accounts shall be classified in accordance with
generally accepted utility accounting practice. Charges for all service
furnished to, or rendered by, other city departments or agencies shall be
recorded. An annual report shall be prepared to show fairly the financial
position of the utility and the results of its operations, which report shall
be available for inspection at the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 13: PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISES
Section 13.1 Granting of Public Utility Franchises:
   Public utility franchises and all renewals, extensions thereof and
amendments thereto shall be granted by ordinance only. No exclusive franchise
shall ever be granted. No franchise shall be granted for a longer period than
thirty years.
   No franchise ordinance which is not subject to revocation at the will of the
Commission shall be enacted nor become operative until the same shall have
first been referred to the people at a regular or special election and received
the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the electors voting thereon. No such
franchise ordinance shall be approved by the Commission for referral to the
electorate before thirty days after application therefor has been filed with
the Commission nor until a public hearing has been held thereon nor until the
grantee named therein has filed with the Clerk his unconditional acceptance
ordered by the Commission unless the expense of holding such election, as
determined by the Commission shall have first been paid to the Treasurer by the
grantee.
   A franchise ordinance or renewal or extension thereof or amendment thereto
which is subject to revocation at the will of the Commission may be enacted by
the Commission without referral to the voters, but shall not be enacted unless
it shall have been in the form in which it is finally enacted and shall have so
been on file in the office of the Clerk for public inspection for at least four
weeks after publication of a notice that such ordinance is so on file.
Section 13.2 Conditions of Public Utility Franchise:
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to
the following rights of the city, but this enumeration shall not be exclusive
or impair the right of the Commission to insert in such franchise any provision
within the power of the city to impose or require:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, non-use or failure to comply with the
provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant and service and
maintenance thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (e)   To use, control and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges
and public places and the space above and beneath them;
   (f)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the
Commission to be conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation of the
public.
Section 13.3 Regulation of Rates:
   All public utility franchises shall make provision therein for fixing rates,
fares and charges and may provide for readjustments thereof at periodic
intervals. The value of the property of the utility used as a basis for fixing
such rates, fares and charges shall in no event include a value predicted upon
the franchise, goodwill or prospective profits.
Section 13.4 Use of Public Places by Utilities:
   Every public utility whether it has a franchise or not shall pay such part
of the cost of improvement or maintenance of streets, alleys, bridges and
public places as shall arise from its use thereof and shall protect and save
the city harmless from all damages arising from said use. Every such public
utility may be required by the city to permit joint use of its property and
appurtenances located in the streets, alleys and other public places of the
city by the city and by other utilities insofar as such joint use may be
reasonably practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefor. In the
absence of agreement and upon application by any public utility, the Commission
shall provide for arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint use and
the compensation to be paid therefor, and the arbitration award shall be final.
CHAPTER 14: MISCELLANEOUS
Section 14.1 Advisory Committees or Boards:
   The city commission or city manager with the approval of the commission may
from time to time appoint such committees or boards as are deemed appropriate
to advise and consult with them, and with appropriate department heads,
regarding any municipal activity. Such committees or boards shall serve at the
pleasure of the commission which shall also determine what, if any,
compensation shall be paid.
Section 14.2 Notice to City of Claim for Injuries:
   The city shall not be liable in damages sustained by any person, either to
his person or property, by reason of the negligence of the city, its officers,
or employees, nor by reason of any defective highway, street, bridge, sidewalk,
cross-walk or culvert, or by reason of any obstruction, ice, snow or other
encumbrance upon such street, sidewalk, crosswalk or public highway, situated
in the city, unless such person shall serve or cause to be served, within sixty
(60) days after such injury shall have occurred, a notice in writing, upon the
Clerk, which notice shall set forth substantially the time and place of such
injury, the nature of the defect, the manner in which it occurred, and the
extent of such injury as far as the same has become known, the names and
addresses of the witnesses known at the time by claimant, and a statement that
the person receiving such injury intends to hold the city liable for such
damages as may have been sustained by him. No person shall bring any action
against the city for any damages to person or property arising out of any
obstruction, ice, snow, or other encumbrance upon such street, sidewalk,
crosswalk or public highway, situated in the city unless he shall also present
to the Clerk his claim in writing and under oath, setting forth particularly
the nature and extent of such injury and the amount of damages claimed by
reason thereof which claims shall be presented to the Commission by the Clerk.
   It shall be a sufficient bar and answer in any court to any action or
proceeding for the collection of any demand or claim against the city, under
this section, that the notice of injury and the verified proof of claim, as in
this section required, were not presented and filed within the time and in the
manner as herein provided.
Section 14.3 Publication and Mailing of Notices:
   The Commission shall determine the method of publication of all notices,
ordinances, and proceedings for which a mode of publication is not prescribed
by this charter or by law. The Commission may determine that such publication
may be made in a newspaper which is printed or circulated in the city, or that
such publication may be made by posting in the office of the Clerk and in five
(5) other public places in the city. In case publication is made by posting, a
notice of such posting, setting forth by a descriptive phrase, the purpose of
or nature of the notice, ordinance, or proceeding posted, and location of the
places where posted, shall be published at least once in a newspaper published
and circulated in the city within seven (7) days after such posting was done.
   In any case in which this charter requires the mailing of notices, the
affidavit of the officer or employee responsible for such mailing that such
notice was mailed shall be prima facie evidence of such mailing.
Section 14.4 No Estoppe by Representation:
   No official of the city shall have power to make any representation or
recital of fact in any franchise, contract, document or agreement, contrary to
any public record of the city. Any such representation shall be void and of no
effect as against the city.
Section 14.5 City Records:
   All records of the city shall be public.
Section 14.6 Prior City Ordinances and Regulations:
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City of Imlay City
which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, in force and
effect at the same time of the adoption of this charter, shall continue in full
force as ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city until
repealed or amended by action of the proper authorities.
Section 14.7 Headings:
   The chapter and section headings used in this charter are for convenience
only and shall not be considered to be a part of this charter.
Section 14.8 Effect of Illegality of Any Part of Charter:
   Should any provision or section, or portion thereof, of this charter be held
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, or
unconstitutional, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity
of this charter as a whole or of any remaining portion of such provision or
section; it being hereby declared to be the intent of the Charter Commission
and of the electors who voted thereon that such unconstitutionality or
illegality shall not affect the validity of any part of this charter except
that specifically affected by such holding. Further, it is hereby declared that
it was the intent of the Charter Commission and of the electors of the City of
Imlay City, in preparing and adopting this charter, that said instrument should
conform in all respects with the provisions and requirements of State Law. In
the event that any provision of this charter shall conflict with or contravene
the provisions of any general law of the State of Michigan, the provisions of
such general law of the state shall govern.
Section 14.9 Amendments:
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided in Act No.
279 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 117.1 et seq.
Should two (2) or more amendments, adopted at the same election, have
conflicting provisions, the one receiving the largest affirmative vote shall
prevail as to those provisions.
Section 14.10 Definitions and Interpretations:
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context:
   (a)   All words used in this charter indicating the present tense shall not
be limited to the time of the adoption of this charter but shall extend to and
include the time of the happening of any event or requirement for which
provision is made herein.
   (b)   The singular number shall include the plural, the plural number shall
include the singular and the masculine gender shall extend to and include the
feminine gender and the neuter.
   (c)   The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate and to partnerships as well as to individuals.
   (d)   The words “printed” and “printing” shall include reproductions by
printing, engraving, stencil duplication, lithographing or any similar method.
   (e)   Except in reference to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” shall include printing and typewriting.
   (f)   The word “officer” shall include the Mayor and other members of the
Commission, the administrative officers, and members of city boards and
commissions created by or pursuant to this charter.
   (g)   The word “statute” shall denote the Public Acts of the State of
Michigan as in effect at the time the provision of the charter containing the
word “statute” is to be applied.
   (h)   The word “Constitution” shall denote the Constitution of the State of
Michigan as in effect at the time the provision of the charter containing the
word “Constitution” is to be applied.
   (i)   All references to specific local or Public Acts shall be to such local
or Public Acts of the State of Michigan as in effect at the time the reference
to such act is to be applied.
   (j)   All references to section numbers shall refer to section numbers of
this charter.
Section 14.11 Trusts and Requests:
   All trusts established for any municipal purpose shall be used and continued
in accordance with the terms of such trust subject to the cy pres doctrine. The
Commission may in its discretion receive and hold any property in trust for any
municipal purpose and shall apply the same to the execution of such trust and
for no other purposes except in cases where the cy pres doctrine shall apply.
Section 14.12 Sunday and Holidays:
   Whenever the date fixed by this charter or by ordinance for the doing or
completion of any act falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, such act shall be
done or completed on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or legal
holiday.
Section 14.13 Penalties for Misconduct in Office:
   Any officer of the city found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
any act declared by this charter to constitute misconduct in office may be
punished by a fine of not to exceed one hundred dollars or imprisonment for not
to exceed ninety days or both in the discretion of the court. The punishment
provided in this section shall be in addition to that of having the office
declared vacant as provided in Section
5.4.
CHAPTER 15: SCHEDULE
Section 15.1 Election on Charter:
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the electors of the Village of
Imlay City for adoption at a special village election to be held on December
14, 1970. In connection with such election the Charter Commission and the
Village Council shall perform all of the duties required by law for the giving
of notice of and the conduct of said election. The last day for the
registration of electors for such election shall be November 16, 1970. Proper
and sufficient notice of registration and of such special election shall be
given by the Village Clerk by publication and posting in the manner prescribed
by law. If at said election a majority of the electors of the village, voting
thereon shall vote in favor of the adoption of this charter, then the Village
Clerk shall perform all other acts required by law to carry this charter into
effect.
Section 15.2 Form of Ballot:
   The form of the ballot on submission of this charter shall be as follows:
   (Proper Instructions)
   “Shall the Proposed Charter of the City of Imlay City, framed by the Charter
Commission which was elected on March 30, 1970, and which has been approved by
the Governor of the State of Michigan, be adopted?”
                  []   YES
                  []   NO
Section 15.3 Effective Date:
   Except as otherwise herein provided, this charter, if adopted, shall go into
effect at 12:01 a.m. on December 29, 1970, at which time the provisions hereof
and the government herein shall commence functioning.
Section 15.4 First City Commission:
   Concurrently with the election on adoption of this charter, an election
shall be held for seven (7) members of the first Commission. Nomination
petitions shall be received by the clerk not later than 5:00 p.m. November 16,
1970 and the election shall be conducted on an at-large, non-partisan basis on
a single ballot and with each voter permitted to vote for up to seven (7) of
the commission candidates. The four commissioners receiving the greatest number
of votes shall have terms of four years and the three other commissioners shall
have terms of two years. As nearly as practicable, the election shall be
conducted in conformance with the terms of this proposed charter and the
election laws of the state.
   If this charter is adopted, the first commission shall convene, be sworn in,
and organize at the Municipal Office at 7:00 p.m. on December 29, 1970, at
which time the incumbent council of the present Village of Imlay City shall
complete its business and then terminate and cease to exist, and all rights,
duties, functions, and powers of the council shall become vested in the new
commission.
   Officers holding office under the previous charter, except members of the
Village Council, shall continue in office until their successors are chosen or
until the office is abolished in accordance with the provisions of this
charter. Where questions arise concerning the responsibility and authority of
officers, pending the appointment of a city manager, the commission shall
temporarily fix responsibility and grant authority as is necessary to maintain
the services of the city.
Section 15.5 Interim:
   The Commission, on the recommendation of the City Manager, shall have
authority to make any necessary interim budget required to defray the cost of
government from December 29, 1970 to June 30, 1971 in order to bring the city's
financial plan into conformity with the fiscal year herein provided.
Section 15.6 Status of Schedule Chapter:
   The purpose of this schedule chapter is to inaugurate the government to the
City of Imlay City under this charter and shall constitute a part of this
charter only to the extent and for the time required to accomplish that end.
Resolution of Adoption:
   At a meeting of the Charter Commission of the City of Imlay City, held in
the offices of the City of Imlay City, the usual meeting place of the Charter
Commission, on August 20, 1970, the following members of the Charter Commission
were present: Melvin E. Eckel, Gordon L. Bristol, Leonard A. Schaaf, Mervin W.
Whiteman, Joseph C. Simons, Arthur F. Shaw, John F. Folk, Howard A. Schoenberg.
   At such meeting, the following resolution was offered by Commissioner
Bristol and seconded by Commissioner Whiteman:
   RESOLVED, That the Charter Commission of the City of Imlay City does hereby
adopt the foregoing instrument as the proposed revised Charter of the City of
Imlay City and the chairman of this Commission is hereby instructed to transmit
the same to the Governor of the State of Michigan, in accordance with the
provisions of the statute, for his approval.
   The vote on the adoption of said resolution was as follows:
   Signed:   JOSEPH SIMONS
         Clerk of the Charter
         Commission of the City
         of Imlay City
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Imlay shall be
designated as the Code of Imlay City and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Imlay City,
Michigan.
   CITY COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The legislative body of the city.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Lapeer County, Michigan.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the City Commission or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Commission requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoin, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Commission shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (M.C.L.A. § 551.271) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Commission.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the Mayor, see M.C.L.A. § 551.271
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500 and costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment at
the discretion of the court. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
31.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
32.   CITY POLICIES
      
33.   CODE ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   FINANCES
      
35.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
      
36.   CITY TAX EXEMPTION
CHAPTER 30: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Health
   
30.01   Establishment
Public Safety Department
   
30.25   Creation
   
30.26   Director
   
30.27   Division of department
Cross-reference:
   City Tree Board, see §§
99.10 et seq.
   Downtown Development Authority, see §§
151.01 et seq.
   Lambe-Steele Building Board, see §§
151.50 et seq.
   Parks and Recreation Commission, see §§
92.25 et seq.
   Planning Commission, see §
151.40;
Ch. 155, App., Zoning Ord., Art. XX
   Zoning Board of Appeals, see
Ch. 155, App., Zoning Ord., Art. XVIII
   Zoning Commission, see
Ch. 155, App., Zoning Ord., Art. XIX
BOARD OF HEALTH
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Board of Health for the city. The Board is to
consist of the Mayor, Clerk, City Manager, and Health Officer.
(Ord. 3.1, passed 4-21-64)
PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT
§ 30.25 CREATION.
   There is created the Department of Public Safety for the city. This
Department shall consist of the Director of Public Safety and such officers and
employees as may be provided for by the City Commission and assigned to the
Department.
(Ord. 8, passed 10-2-79)
§ 30.26 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Department shall be under the direction of the City Manager.
   (B)   The Director of the Department shall be appointed by the City Manager.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, Ambulance Director, and the Director of Public
Safety may be served by one person.
(Ord. 8, passed 10-2-79)
§ 30.27 DIVISION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Public Safety Department shall have two divisions:
      (1)   Division 1 shall be the Police Department; and
      (2)   Division 2 shall be the Ambulance Department.
   (B)   Division 1 shall have all of these Police Powers set forth by the
Charter, City Ordinances, and State Laws.
   (C)   The Public Safety Director may appoint an Assistant Director in
Division 2 subject to the approval of the City Manager.
   (D)   The Public Safety Department shall be governed by policies drafted by
the City Manager and approved by the City Commission. Provided, however,
conditions of employment of both departments shall be set forth in separate
statements.
   (E)   Divisions 1 and 2 shall have separate budgets.
(Ord. 8, passed 10-2-79)
CHAPTER 31: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
31.01   Minimum standards adopted
§ 31.01 MINIMUM STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers as
established and adopted by the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training
Council in accordance with Act No. 203 of the Public Acts of 1965, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 28.601 through 28.616, are hereby adopted as follows. Police
officers and applicants for the position of police officer of the city shall:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States.
      (2)   Be a minimum age of 21 years.
      (3)   Have graduated from high school or its equivalent. EQUIVALENT
defined as having attained a passing score on the General Education Development
Test indicating high school graduation level.
      (4)   Be fingerprinted, with a search of local, state and national
fingerprint files to disclose any criminal record.
      (5)   Shall not have been convicted of a felony offense.
      (6)   Shall possess good moral character as determined by a favorable
report following a comprehensive background investigation covering school and
employment records, home environment, personal traits and integrity.
Consideration will be given to any and all law violations, including traffic
and conservation law convictions as indicating a lack of good character.
      (7)   Shall possess acceptable physical, emotional and mental fitness as
established by a licensed physician following examination to determine the
applicant is free from any physical, emotional or mental condition which might
adversely affect his performance of duty as a police officer.
   (B)   The trainee for the position of police officer shall possess normal
hearing and normal color vision. Said trainee shall be free from any
impediments of the senses. He must possess normal visual functions and visual
acuity in each eye correctable to 20/20. The trainee must be physically sound;
well developed physically, with height and weight in relation to each other and
to age as indicated by accepted medical standards and in possession of his
extremities. He shall be free from any physical defects, chronic diseases,
organic or functional conditions, or mental instabilities which may tend to
impair efficient performance of duty to which might endanger the lives of
others or himself if he lacks these qualifications.
   (C)   A declaration of the applicant's medical history shall become a part
of the background investigation. The information shall be available to the
examining physician.
   (D)   An oral interview shall be held by the hiring authority or his
representative, to determine the applicant's acceptability for a police officer
position and to assess appearance, background and ability to communicate.
   (E)   Recruitment and employment practices and standards shall be in
compliance with existing state statutes governing this activity.
(Ord. 2.1, passed 1-25-67)
CHAPTER 32: CITY POLICIES
Section
Purchasing and Contracting
   
32.01   [Reserved]
Special Assessment Procedures
   
32.15   Title
   
32.16   Definitions
   
32.17   Authority to assess
   
32.18   Initiation of special assessment projects
   
32.19   Initiation by petition
   
32.20   Survey and report
   
32.21   Determination of the project, notice
   
32.22   Hearing on necessity
   
32.23   Deviation from plans and specifications
   
32.24   Limitations on preliminary expenses
   
32.25   Special assessment roll
   
32.26   Assessor to file assessment roll
   
32.27   Special assessment roll meeting; objections
   
32.28   Changes and corrections in assessment roll
   
32.29   Objection to assessment
   
32.30   Special assessment
   
32.31   Contractual provision
   
32.32   Partial payments
   
32.33   Delinquent special assessments
   
32.34   Creation of lien
   
32.35   Additional assessments; refunds
   
32.36   Additional procedures
   
32.37   Collection of special assessments
   
32.38   Special assessment accounts
   
32.39   Contested assessments
   
32.40   Reassessment for benefits
   
32.41   Combination of projects
   
32.42   Division of parcels
   
32.43   Deferred payments of special assessments
   
32.44   Reconsideration of petitions
   
32.45   Exceptions
Cross-reference:
   Cost recovery for driving under the influence, see §§
70.15 et seq.
PURCHASING AND CONTRACTING
§ 32.01 [RESERVED]
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES
§ 32.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Special Assessment
Ordinance” of the city.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST. When referring to the cost of any local public improvement shall
include the cost of services, plans, condemnation, spreading of rolls, notices,
advertising, financing, construction, legal fees, interest on special
assessment bonds for not to exceed one year and all other costs incident to the
making of such improvement, the special assessments therefor and the financing
thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement which is of such a nature
as to benefit especially any real property or properties within a district in
the vicinity of such improvement.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.17 AUTHORITY TO ASSESS.
   The whole cost or any part thereof of any local public improvement may be
defrayed by special assessment upon the lands specially benefited by the
improvement in the manner provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.18 INITIATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the city, the
tentative necessity thereof, and the determination that the whole or any part
of the expense thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the
property especially benefited, provided that all special assessments levied
shall be in proportion to the benefits derived from the improvements, may be
commenced by resolution of the City Commission, with or without a petition.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.19 INITIATION BY PETITION.
   Local public improvements may be initiated by petition signed by property
owners whose aggregate property in the proposed district was assessed for not
less than 51% of the total assessed value of the privately owned real property
located therein, all shown by the last preceding general tax records of the
city. Such petition shall contain a brief description of the property owned by
the respective signatories thereof and if it shall appear that the petition is
signed by at least 51% as aforesaid the Clerk shall certify same to the City
Commission. The petition shall be addressed to the City Commission and filed
with the Clerk and shall in no event be considered directory but is advisory
only.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.20 SURVEY AND REPORT.
   Before the City Commission shall consider the making of any local
improvement, the City Commission shall cause to be prepared a report which
shall include necessary plans, profiles, specifications and detailed estimates
of cost, an estimate of life of the improvement, a description of the
assessment district or districts, and such other pertinent information as will
permit the City Commission to decide the cost, extent and necessity of the
improvement proposed and what part of proportion thereof should be paid by
special assessments upon the property especially benefited and what part, if
any, should be paid by the city at large. The City Commission shall not finally
determine to proceed with the making of any local public improvement until such
report has been filed, nor until after a public hearing has been held by the
City Commission for the purpose of hearing objections to the making of such
improvement.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.21 DETERMINATION OF THE PROJECT, NOTICE.
   After receiving the report required in §
32.20 for making any local public improvement as requested in the resolution of
the City Commission, and the City Commission has reviewed the report, a
resolution may be passed tentatively determining the necessity of the
improvement, setting forth the nature thereof, prescribing what part of
proportion of the cost of such improvement shall be paid by special assessment
upon the property especially benefited, determination of benefits received by
affected properties, and what part, if any, shall be paid by the city at large;
designating the limits of the special assessment district to be affected,
designating whether to be assessed according to frontage or other benefits,
placing the complete information on file in the office of the City Clerk, where
the same may be found for examination, and directing the City Clerk to give
notice of public hearing on the proposed improvement, at which time and place
opportunity will be given interested persons to be heard. The notice shall be
given by one publication in a newspaper published or circulated within the city
and by first class mail addressed to each owner of or person in interest in
property to be assessed as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the
city. The publication of notice shall be made at least seven full days prior to
the hearing and the mailing of notice shall be made at least ten full days
prior to the date of the hearing. The hearing required by this section may be
held at any regular, adjourned, or special meeting of the City Commission.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.22 HEARING ON NECESSITY.
   At the public hearing on the proposed improvement, all persons interested
shall be given an opportunity to be heard, after which the City Commission may
modify the scope of the local public improvement in such a manner as they shall
deem to be in the best interest of the city as a whole; provided that if the
amount of work is increased or additions are made to the district, then another
hearing shall be held pursuant to notice prescribed in §
32.20. If the determination of the City Commission shall be to proceed with the
improvement, a resolution shall be passed approving the necessary profiles,
plans, specifications, assessment district and detailed estimated of cost, and
directing the Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with
the City Commissions determination and report the same to the City Commission
for confirmation.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.23 DEVIATION FROM PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   No deviation from original plans or specifications as adopted shall be
permitted by any officer or employee of the city without authority of the City
Commission by resolution. A copy of the resolution authorizing such changes or
deviation shall be certified by the City Clerk and attached to the original
plans and specifications on file in his office.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.24 LIMITATIONS ON PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
   The City Commission shall specify the provisions and procedures for
financing a local public improvement. No contract or expenditure, except for
the cost of preparing necessary profiles, plans, specifications and estimates
of cost, shall be made for the improvement, nor shall any improvement be
commenced until the special assessment roll to defray the costs of the same
shall have been made and confirmed.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.25 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Assessor shall make a special assessment roll of all lots and parcels of
land within the designated district benefited by the proposed improvement and
assess to each lot or parcel of land the proportionate amount benefited
thereby. The amount spread in each case shall be based upon the detailed
estimate of cost as approved by the City Commission.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.26 ASSESSOR TO FILE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   When the Assessor shall have completed such assessment roll he shall file
the same with the City Clerk for presentation to the City Commission for review
and certification by it.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.27 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL MEETING; OBJECTIONS.
   Upon receipt of the special assessment roll, the City Commission, by
resolution, shall accept the assessment roll and order it to be filed in the
office of the City Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and place
the City Commission will meet to review such special assessment roll and direct
the City Clerk to give notice of public hearing for the purpose of affording an
opportunity for interested persons to be heard. The notice shall be given by
publication once, at least seven full days prior to the date of the hearing, in
a newspaper published or circulated within the city and by first class mail
addressed to each owner of or person in interest in property to be assessed as
shown by the last general tax assessment roll of the city, mailed at least ten
days prior to the date of the hearing. The hearing required by this section may
be held at any regular, adjourned or special meeting of the City Commission. At
this meeting, all interested persons or parties shall present in writing their
objections, if any, to the assessments against them. The Assessor shall be
present at every meeting of the City Commission at which a special assessment
is to be reviewed.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.28 CHANGES AND CORRECTIONS IN ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The City Commission shall meet at the time and place designated for the
review of such special assessment roll, and at such meeting, or a proper
adjournment thereof, shall consider all objections thereto submitted in
writing. The City Commission may correct the roll as to any special assessment
or description of any lot or parcel of land or other errors appearing therein;
or it may, by resolution, annul the assessment roll and direct that new
proceedings be instituted. The same proceedings shall be followed in making a
new roll as in the making of the original roll. If, after hearing all
objections and making a record of such changes as the City Commission deems
justified, the City Commission determines that it is satisfied with the special
assessment roll and that assessments are in proportion to benefits received, it
shall thereupon pass a resolution reciting such determinations, confirming such
roll, placing it on file in the office of the City Clerk and directing the City
Clerk to attach his warrant to a certified copy thereof within ten days,
therein commanding the Assessor to spread and the Treasurer to collect the
various sums and amounts appearing thereon as directed by the City Commission.
The roll shall have the date of confirmation endorsed thereon and shall from
that date be final and conclusive for the purpose of the improvement to which
it applies unless contested in the manner provided in the City Charter and
subject to adjustment to conform to the actual cost of the improvement, as
provided in §
32.34.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.29 OBJECTION TO ASSESSMENT.
   If at, or prior to, the final confirmation of any special assessments, the
owners of privately-owned real property to be assessed for more than 50% of the
cost of an improvement, or in the case of paving or similar improvements the
owners of more than 50% of the frontage to be assessed for any such
improvement, shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the
improvement shall not be made by proceedings delineated by this subchapter
without a 5/7 vote of the members elect of the City Commission.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.30 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   All special assessments, except such installments thereof as the City
Commission shall make payable at a future time as provided in this subchapter,
shall be due and payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.31 CONTRACTUAL PROVISION.
   In the event that all persons or property owners to be affected by any
proposed improvement be made and that a special assessment be levied in
connection therewith, the city may, in lieu of the foregoing procedure, enter
into a written contract with all of the persons or property owners affected
thereby, which contract when properly approved and executed shall operate as a
complete Special Assessment Procedure and the assessment shall be made in
accordance with the contract.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.32 PARTIAL PAYMENTS.
   The City Commission may provide for the payment of special assessments in
annual installments. Such annual installments shall not exceed 30 in number,
the first installment being due upon confirmation of the roll or on such date
as the City Commission may determine and deferred installments being due
annually thereafter, or in the discretion of the City Commission, may be spread
upon and made a part of each annual city tax roll thereafter until all are
paid. Interest shall be charged on all deferred installments at a rate not to
exceed 8% per annum, or as provided by state statute, commencing on the due
date of the first installment, or 60 days after the date of confirmation if the
first installment is not due upon confirmation, and payable on the due date of
each subsequent installment. The full amount of all or any deferred
installments, with interest accrued thereon to the date of payment, may be paid
in advance of the due dates thereof. If the full assessment or the first
installment thereof shall be due upon confirmation, each property owner shall
have 60 days from the date of confirmation to pay the full amount of the
assessment, or the full amount of any installments thereof, without interest or
penalty. Following the 60-day period, the assessment or first installment
thereof shall, if unpaid, be considered as delinquent and the same penalties
shall be collected on such unpaid assessments or first installments thereof as
are provided by law to be collected on delinquent general city taxes. Deferred
installments shall be collected without penalty until 60 days after the due
date thereof, after which time such installments shall be considered as
delinquent and such penalties on the installments shall be collected as are
provided by law to be collected on delinquent general city taxes. After the
City Commission has confirmed the roll, the City Treasurer shall notify by mail
each property owner on said roll that said roll has been filed, stating the
amount assessed and the terms of payment. Failure on the part of the City
Treasurer to give notice or of such owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any special assessment roll of the city or any assessment thereon,
nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.33 DELINQUENT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Any assessment, or part thereof, remaining unpaid on the first Monday of
March following the date when the same became delinquent shall be reported as
unpaid by the Treasurer to the City Commission. Any such delinquent assessment,
together with all accrued interest shall be transferred and reassessed on the
next annual city tax roll in a column headed “Special Assessments” with a
penalty of 4% upon such total amount added thereto, and when so transferred and
reassessed upon said tax roll shall be collected in all respects as provided
for the collection of city taxes.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.34 CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interest, penalties and charges thereon from the
date of confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the city from the
persons to whom they are assessed, and, until paid, shall be and remain a lien
upon the property assessed, of the same character and effect as the lien
created by general law for state, county and city taxes and the lands upon
which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale therefor the same as are
lands upon which delinquent city taxes constitute a lien.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.35 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   The City Clerk shall within 60 days after the completion of each local or
special public improvement, compile the actual cost thereof and certify the
same to the Assessor who shall adjust the special assessment roll to correspond
therewith. Should the assessment prove larger than necessary by less than 5%,
the same shall be reported to the City Commission which may place the excess in
the City Treasury or make a refund thereof pro rata according to the
assessment. If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by 5% or more, the
entire excess shall be credited to owners of property as shown by the city
assessment roll upon which such assessment has been levied, pro rata according
to the assessment. No refunds of special assessments may be made which impair,
or contravene the provision of any outstanding obligation or bond secured in
whole or part by such special assessments. In the case of assessments due in
installments, the City Commission may order the refund given by credit against
the installments last coming due. When any special assessment roll shall prove
insufficient to meet the cost of the improvement for which it was made, the
City Commission may make an additional pro rata assessment, but the total
amount assessed against any one parcel of land shall not exceed the benefits
received by said lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.36 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this subchapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the City
Commission shall provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures
required.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.37 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   In the event bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special
assessments as hereinbefore provided, all collections on each special
assessment roll or combination of rolls shall be set in a separate fund for the
payment or the principal and interest on the bonds so issued in anticipation of
the payment of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other
purpose.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.38 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local
improvements shall be held in a special fund to pay such cost or to repay any
money borrowed therefor. Each special assessment account must be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses
incidental thereto, including the repayment of the principal and interest on
money borrowed therefor, and to refund excessive assessments, if refunds be
authorized.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.39 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   An action may not be instituted for the purpose of contesting or enjoining
the collection of a special assessment unless:
   (A)   Within 45 days after the confirmation of the special assessment roll,
written notice is given to the City Commission indicating an intention to file
such an action and stating the grounds on which it is claimed that the
assessment is illegal; and
   (B)   The action is commenced within 90 days after the confirmation of the
roll.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.40 REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   Whenever the City Commission shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction
shall have adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in
whole or in part, the City Commission shall have power to cause a new
assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was
made, whether the improvement or any part thereof has been completed and
whether any part of the assessment has been collected or not. All proceedings
on such reassessment and for the collection thereof shall be made in the manner
as provided for the original assessment. If any portion of the original
assessment shall have been collected and not refunded, it shall be applied upon
the reassessment and the reassessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied.
If more than the amount reassessed shall have been collected, the balance shall
be refunded to the person making such payment.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.41 COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The City Commission may combine several districts into one project for the
purpose of effecting a saving in the costs. There shall be established for each
district separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the same.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.42 DIVISION OF PARCELS.
   Should any lots or lands be divided after a special assessment thereon has
been confirmed and divided into installments, the Assessor shall apportion the
uncollected amounts upon the several lots and lands so divided, and shall enter
the several amounts as amendments upon the special assessment roll. The City
Treasurer shall, within ten days after such apportionment, send notice of such
action to the persons concerned at their last known address by first class
mail. The apportionment shall be final and conclusive on all parties unless
protest in writing is received by the City Treasurer within 20 days of the
mailing of the aforesaid notice.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.43 DEFERRED PAYMENTS OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The City Commission may provide for the deferred payment of special
assessments from persons who in the opinion of the City Commission and
Assessor, by reason of poverty are unable to contribute toward the cost
thereof. In all such cases, as a condition to the granting of such deferred
payments, the city shall require mortgage security on the real property of the
beneficiary payable on or before his death, or, in any event, on the sale or
transfer of the property.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.44 RECONSIDERATION OF PETITIONS.
   In the event that the City Commission shall fail to make any public
improvement petitioned for under the provisions of §
32.18 during the calendar year during which any petition is filed, such
petition shall be reconsidered by the City Commission prior to March 1 of the
succeeding calendar year for the purpose of determining whether such
improvement should be made during such calendar year.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
§ 32.45 EXCEPTIONS.
   All special assessment proceedings commenced prior to August 31, 1979 and
conducted in conformity with the provisions of the City Charter adopted on
December 29, 1970 as in effect prior to August 31, 1979, are hereby validated,
ratified and confirmed. All incomplete special assessment proceedings shall be
continued under the applicable provisions hereof.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-21-79)
CHAPTER 33: CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Building, plumbing, mechanical or electrical codes enforcement
   
33.02   Zoning code enforcement
   
33.03   Blight
   
33.04   City police to enforce code
§ 33.01 BUILDING, PLUMBING, MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Building Inspector, Plumbing Inspector, Mechanical Inspector and
Electrical Inspector are designated as the authorized city officials to issue
municipal civil infraction citations (directing alleged violators to appear in
court) or municipal civil infraction violation notices (directing alleged
violators to appear at the Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau, as provided
by §§
35.01 - 35.07 for violations of any provision of the Building Code, Plumbing
Code, Mechanical Code or Electrical Code.
(Ord. 7.4, passed 9-17-85; Am. Ord. 8.23, passed 3-21-95)
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see
Ch. 150
§ 33.02 ZONING CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of the City of Imlay City Zoning Ordinance shall be enforced
by the Building Official and/or Zoning Administrator and/or by such other
official(s), as may be designated by the City Commission. These persons are
hereby designated as the authorized city officials to issue municipal civil
infraction citations (directing alleged violators to appear in court) or
municipal civil infraction violation notices (directing alleged violators to
appear at the Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau), as provided by §§
35.01 - 35.07 for violation of any provision of the City of Imlay Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 7.4, passed 9-17-85; Am. Ord. 8.23, passed 3-21-95; Am. Ord. passed 3-4-
03)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
§ 33.03 BLIGHT.
   The City Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator are designated as the
authorized city officials to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau) as provided by §§
35.01 - 35.07 for violations of any provision of the Nuisance Ordinance as set
forth in Chapter 95 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 7.4, passed 9-17-85; Am. Ord. 8.23, passed 3-21-95)
§ 33.04 CITY POLICE TO ENFORCE CODE.
   The City Police are designated as the authorized city officials to issue and
serve district court appearance tickets for the violation of any section of
this code and any other ordinance of this city and are further designated as
the authorized city officials to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau) as provided by §§
35.01 - 35.07 for any violations designated as municipal civil infractions,
with the exception of those outlined in §§
33.01 and
33.02.
(Ord. 7.4, passed 9-17-85; Am. Ord. 8.23, passed 3-21-95; Am. Ord. 7.4, passed
6-1-99)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES
Section
   
34.01   Adoption of budget and tax rate
§ 34.01 ADOPTION OF BUDGET AND TAX RATE.
   (A)   The following anticipated revenue and expenditure appropriations as
shown in the budget summary shall be adopted as the official budget for the
city.
   (B)   The millage shall be levied in the following amounts for operating
purposes and for waste water treatment plant debt service and the levy to be
made upon the basis of locally assessed valuations on real and personal
property within the city, to support the adopted budget.
Budget Year Total Mills Mills for Operating Mills for Waste Water
                        Purposes            Treatment Plant Debt Service
Budget Year Total Mills Mills for Operating Mills for Waste Water
                        Purposes            Treatment Plant Debt Service
1998/1999   17.75       14                  3.75
1999/2000   17.75       14                  3.75
2000/2001   17.75       14                  3.75
2001/2002   16.75       13                  3.75
2002/2003   17.75       13                  4.75
2003/2004   17.75       13                  4.75
2004/2005   17.75       13                  4.75
2005/2006   17.72       14                  3.72
2007/2008   17.35       14                  3.35
 
(Ord. 2.2, passed 5-3-94; Am. Ord. 2.2, passed 5-2-95; Am. Ord. 2.2, passed 5-
5-98; Am. Ord. 2.2, passed 5-4-04; Am. Ord. 2.2, passed 4-19-05; Am. Ord. 2.2,
passed 4-17-07)
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Penalties and sanctions; continuing violations; injunctive relief
   
35.03   Action; commencement
   
35.04   Citations; issuance and service
   
35.05   Citations; contents
   
35.06   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
35.07   Schedule of civil fines established
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §
600.100 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. A police officer or other city personnel
authorized by this chapter or any ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction
citations or municipal civil infraction violation notices.
   BUREAU. City of Imlay City Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau, as
established by this chapter.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
chapter or any ordinance of the city but which is not a crime under this
chapter or other ordinance, and for which civil sanctions, including without
limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs, may be ordered, as authorized
by Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. § 600.8701 et seq.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser
included offense of a violation of this chapter that is a criminal offense.
(M.C.L.A. § 600.113)
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction. (M.C.L.A. §
600.113)
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the
person cited. (M.C.L.A. § 600.8701(b))
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by an
authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau and pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed by
the schedule of civil fines adopted by the city, as authorized under Sections
8396 and 8707(6) of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8396 and 600.8707(6).
(M.C.L.A. § 600.8701) (Ord. 8.18, passed 2-7-95)
§ 35.02 PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Unless a violation of this code or other ordinance of the city is
specifically designated in the code or ordinance as a municipal civil
infraction, the violation shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The penalty for a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not exceeding
$500 (plus costs of prosecution), or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or
both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the violation by this
code or any ordinance.
   (C)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be a civil fine in the amount provided by this code or any ordinance,
plus any costs, damages, expenses, and other sanctions, as authorized under
Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 et seq. and other applicable laws.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation by this code or any ordinance, the civil fine for a
violation shall be not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each
infraction.
      (2)   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations by a
person of any requirement or provision of this code or any ordinance. As used
in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal
civil infraction violation of the same requirement or provision (I) committed
by a person within any six-month period, unless some other period is
specifically provided by this code or any ordinance and (ii) for which the
person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible. Unless
otherwise specifically provided by this code or any ordinance for a particular
municipal civil infraction violation, the increased fine for a repeat offense
shall be as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be no less than $100, plus costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $150, plus costs.
   (D)   A violation includes any act which is prohibited or made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense by this code or any ordinance; and any omission or
failure to act where the act is required by this code or any ordinance.
   (E)   Each day on which any violation of this code or any ordinance
continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or
sanctions as a separate offense.
   (F)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the city may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain,
prevent, or abate any violation of this code or any ordinance.
(Ord. 8.18, passed 2-7-95)
§ 35.03 ACTION; COMMENCEMENT.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized city official of:
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged violator
to appear in court; or
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(M.C.L.A. § 600.8703) (Ord. 8.18, passed 2-7-95)
§ 35.04 CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the district
court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the state court administrator. The original citation shall be filed
with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the city
and issued to the alleged violator as provided by Section 8705 of the Act, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8705.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint and
if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date and
signature of the official:
      "I declare under the penalties of perjury that the statements above are
true to the best of my information, knowledge, and belief."
   (E)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction,
and if the prosecuting attorney or city attorney approves in writing the
issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
city official as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by §
35.04(G)(2) below, an authorized city official shall personally serve a copy of
the citation upon the alleged violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction involves the use or occupancy of
land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does not need to be
personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served upon an owner or
occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the copy of the citation
or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a copy of the
citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the land, building
or structure at the owner's last known address.
(M.C.L.A. § 600.8707) (Ord. 8.18, passed 2-7-95)
§ 35.05 CITATIONS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court, and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance.
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance, or in person, or by
representation.
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the city.
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance.
      (2)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a
scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is
specified on the citation.
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the city.
      (4)   That at an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney.
      (5)   That at a formal hearing the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldface type that the failure
of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or
at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will
result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on the
municipal civil infraction.
(M.C.L.A. § 600.8709) (Ord. 8.18, passed 2-7-95)
§ 35.06 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Bureau established. The city hereby establishes a Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau (“Bureau”) as authorized under Section 8396 of the Act, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8396, to accept admissions of responsibility for
municipal civil infractions in response to municipal civil infraction violation
notices issued and served by authorized city officials, and to collect and
retain civil fines and costs as prescribed by this code or any ordinance.
   (B)   Location; supervision; employees; rules and regulations. The Bureau
shall be located at the Police Department, and shall be under the supervision
and control of the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police, subject to the
approval of the City Commission, shall adopt rules and regulations for the
operation of the Bureau and appoint any necessary qualified city employees to
administer the Bureau.
   (C)   Disposition of violations. The Bureau may dispose only of municipal
civil infraction violations for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a
municipal civil infraction violation notice (as compared with a citation) has
been issued. The fact that a fine has been scheduled for a particular violation
shall not entitle any person to dispose of the violation at the Bureau. Nothing
in this chapter shall prevent or restrict the city from issuing a municipal
civil infraction citation for any violation or from prosecuting any violation
in a court of competent jurisdiction. No person shall be required to dispose of
a municipal civil infraction violation at the Bureau and may have the violation
processed before a court of appropriate jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any
person to dispose of any violation at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person
or in any way diminish the person's rights, privileges and protection accorded
by law.
   (D)   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility. The scope of
the Bureau's authority shall be limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The Bureau shall not
accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and in no event
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation.
   (E)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices. Municipal civil
infraction violation notices shall be issued and served by authorized city
officials under the same circumstances and upon the same persons as provided
for citations in §
35.04(F) and (G). In addition to any other information required by this chapter
or other ordinance, the notice of violation shall indicate the time by which
the alleged violator must appear at the Bureau, the methods by which an
appearance may be made, the address and telephone number of the Bureau, the
hours during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the
alleged violation, and the consequences for failure to appear and pay the
required fine within the required time.
   (F)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs. An alleged violator receiving
a municipal civil infraction violation notice shall appear at the Bureau and
pay the specified fine and costs at or by the time specified for appearance in
the municipal civil infraction violation notice. An appearance may be made by
mail, in person, or by representation.
   (G)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid.
If an authorized city official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice, and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the
civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the
violation are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation may
be filed with the district court and a copy of the citation may be served by
first-class mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator's last-known
address. The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in all
particulars with the requirements for citations as provided by Sections 8705
and 8709 of the Act, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8705 and 600.8709, but
shall consist of a sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the
municipal ordinance violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged
violator how to respond to the citation.
(M.C.L.A. § 600.8396) (Ord. 8.18, passed 2-7-95)
§ 35.07    SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A schedule of civil fines payable to the Bureau for admissions of
responsibility by persons served with municipal ordinance violation notices is
established. The fines for the violations listed below shall be established as
follows:
OFFENSE/VIOLATION FINE
OFFENSE/VIOLATION                        FINE
Zoning Code                              $ 50
   First repeat offense               100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offen150
Chapter 50: Garbage                      $ 50
   First repeat offense               100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offen150
Chapter 90: Abandoned Vehicles           $ 50
   First repeat offense               100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offen150
Chapter 91: Animals                      $ 50
   First repeat offense               100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offen150
Chapter 92: Parks and Recreation         $ 50
   First repeat offense               100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offen150
Chapter 94: Fire Prevention              $ 50
   First repeat offense               100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offen150
Chapter 95: Public Nuisances             $ 50
   First repeat offense               100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offen150
Chapter 96: Garage Sales                 $ 50
   First repeat offense               100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offen150
 
OFFENSE/VIOLATION FINE
OFFENSE/VIOLATION                                           FINE
Chapter 97: Address Numbering                               $ 50
   First repeat offense                                  100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offense                 150
Chapter 113: Junkyards                                      $ 50
   First repeat offense                                  100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offense                 150
Chapter 114: Solicitors, Peddlers and Hawkers               $ 50
   First repeat offense                                  100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offense                 150
Sections 130.03 - 130.00: Offenses Against City Regulations $ 50
   First repeat offense                                  100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offense                 150
Sections 150.30 - 150.41: Rental Dwellings                  $ 50
   First repeat offense                                  100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offense                 150
Sections 150.65 - 150.75: Unsafe Buildings                  $ 50
   First repeat offense                                  100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offense                 150
Chapter 152: Subdivisions                                   $ 50
   First repeat offense                                  100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offense                 150
Chapter 154: Mobile Home Parks                              $ 50
   First repeat offense                                  100
   Second (or subsequent) repeat offense                 150
 
      (B)    The schedule of fines, as amended from time to time, shall be
posted at the Bureau.
(Ord. 8.18, passed 2-7-95; Am. Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97)
CHAPTER 36: CITY TAX EXEMPTION
Section
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Class of housing developments
   
36.04   Establishment of annual service charge
   
36.05   Limitation on the payment of annual service charge
   
36.06   Contractual effect
   
36.07   Payment of service charge
   
36.08   Duration
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a service charge in lieu of
taxes for a proposed multiple family dwelling project for persons of low income
to be financed or assisted pursuant to the provisions of the State Housing
Development Authority Act of 1966 (1966 PA 346, as amended, M.C.L.A. § 125.1401
et seq., MSA § 116.114 (1) et. seq.), as amended.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-16-98; Ord. 20A, passed 8-5-98)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346 of
1966 of the State of Michigan, as amended.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENT. The total collections during an agreed annual period
from all occupants of a housing development representing rent or occupancy
charges, exclusive of charges for gas, electricity, heat or other utilities
furnished to the occupants.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   CONTRACT RENTS. As defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to the U.S. Housing Act of
1937, as amended.
   ELDERLY. Those persons 62 years of age and older; the defined class to which
this chapter applies. Individuals may also be handicapped or disabled.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for persons of low income and such elements of other housing,
commercial, recreational, industrial, communal, and educational facilities as
the Authority determines improve the quality of the development as it relates
to housing for persons of low income.
   MORTGAGE LOAN. A loan to be made by the authority to the sponsor for the
construction and/or permanent financing of the Housing Development.
   SPONSOR. Person(s) or entities which have applied to the authority for a
mortgage loan to finance a housing development.
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service
which are paid by the Housing Development.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-16-98; Ord. 20A, passed 8-5-98)
§ 36.03 CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The class of housing development to which the tax exemption shall
apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu of such taxes shall
be elderly/handicapped/disabled classification which are financed or assisted
pursuant to the act.
   (B)   The following property is of this class: Cambridge Court I Senior
Citizen Apartments.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-16-98)
   (C)   The following property is of this class: Cambridge Court II Senior
Citizen Apartments.
(Ord. 20A, passed 8-5-98)
§ 36.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   The housing development identified as Cambridge Court I and Cambridge Court
II Senior Citizen Apartments and the property on which it shall be constructed
shall be exempt from all property taxes from and after the commencement of
construction. The city acknowledging that the sponsor and the authority have
established the economic feasibility of the housing development in reliance
upon the enactment and continuing effect of this chapter and the qualification
of the housing development for exemption from all property taxes and a payment
in lieu of taxes as established in this chapter, and in consideration of the
sponsor's offer, subject to receipt of a mortgage loan from the authority, to
construct, own and operate the housing development, agrees to accept payment of
an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all property taxes. The
annual service charge shall be equal to 10% of the difference between the
annual shelter rents actually collected and utilities.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-16-98; Ord. 20A, passed 8-5-98)
§ 36.05 LIMITATION ON THE PAYMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   Notwithstanding §
36.04, the service charge to be paid each year in lieu of taxes for the part of
the housing development which is tax exempt and which is occupied by other than
low income persons or families shall be equal to the full amount of the taxes
which would be paid on that portion of the housing development if the housing
development were not tax exempt.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-16-98; Ord. 20A, passed 8-5-98)
§ 36.06CONTRACTUAL EFFECT.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of § 15(a)(5) of the act, to the contrary, a
contract between the city and the sponsor with the authority as third party
beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax exemption and accept payments in
lieu of taxes, as previously described, is hereby effectuated.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-16-98; Ord. 20A, passed 8-5-98)
§ 36.07 PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this chapter shall
be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are payable to the city
except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before July 1 of each year.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-16-98; Ord. 20A, passed 8-5-98)
§ 36.08 DURATION.
   This chapter shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as the
mortgage loan remains outstanding and unpaid or the authority has any interest
in the property; provided that construction of the housing development
commences within one year from the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-16-98; Ord. 20A, passed 8-5-98)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Containers
   
50.03   Collections
   
50.04   Transporting garbage
   
50.05   License to haul garbage
   
50.06   Householder contracts and fees
   
50.07   Private disposal of garbage
   
50.08   Disposal of garbage
   
50.09   Inspections
   
50.10   Enforcement
   
50.11   Fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Depositing dead animals a nuisance, see §
95.05
   Offensive materials a nuisance, see §
95.06
   Rubbish a nuisance, see §
95.04
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Refuse accumulation of animals, fruit or vegetable matter, liquid
or otherwise, that attends the preparation, use and cooking of foods.
   OTHER REFUSE MATTER. All other rubbish such as ashes, bottles, waste paper,
rags, etc.; but does not mean recognized industrial byproducts, human or animal
excreta, sewage, or dead animals.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.02 CONTAINERS.
   No person shall place any garbage or other refuse matter which may cause any
unwholesome or offensive odor that may tend to cause sickness or disease, or
any other unsanitary condition, upon any public or private property unless it
is enclosed in a water tight container covered with a tightly, fitting cover.
The cover shall not be removed except when necessary to deposit or remove
materials from the container. Garbage placed in containers shall be wrapped in
paper. Garbage container shall be kept in the rear or in a inconspicuous part
of the premises in connection with which it is used and shall be kept clean and
disinfected at all time.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.03 COLLECTIONS.
   Garbage containers shall be emptied and the contents disposed of in a
sanitary manner at least once each week, or the contents shall be picked up
once each week by a garbage collector contracted and licensed by the city.
   (A)   Bundled brush. Brush such as minor tree limbs, twigs and lumber not
exceeding four feet in length and a diameter of more than four inches may be
bundled together and securely tied and if the bundle does not exceed 50 pounds,
the same can be placed with the refuse for collection or may be placed in a
container for collection with other refuse. The bundles shall not contain nails
or other sharp protruding objects which could cause damage to the collectors of
such refuse.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of all persons to have said refuse at
the point of collection by 7:00 a.m. of the day specified and all persons are
prohibited from depositing the refuse for collection prior to 7:00 a.m. of the
preceding morning. These hours may be modified by resolution of the City
Commission. Failure to comply with these time requirements shall not result in
criminal penalties.
   (C)   In the event that the city or the hauler or collector of refuse has a
legal holiday on the date of collection, then the refuse will be collected the
following day excluding holidays and Sundays, unless published in the local
newspaper to the contrary.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, corporation,
or association or business entity of any type to collect or haul refuse
deposited for collection under this chapter unless the same are city employees
or persons who are authorized to make such collections. The hauler or collector
shall be responsible for any act or omission or commission which results in the
discharge of any contents of such vehicle upon the streets, alleys, and other
private or public places in the city and it shall be the driver's duty to
forthwith remove from any such street, alley or public or private places in the
city any refuse which has been so discharged.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69; Am. Ord. passed 1-21-86)
§ 50.04 TRANSPORTING GARBAGE.
   Care shall be taken in transporting garbage and other refuse to the truck as
not to litter property and all garbage and other refuse transported over the
streets shall be carried in a manner which prevents the contents from leaking
or escaping and in a closed vehicle.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.05 LICENSE TO HAUL GARBAGE.
   The City Commission may license for a period not to exceed one year at a
time one or more persons, firms, or corporations, to take, carry away and
dispose of all garbage and other refuse matter from houses or other buildings
in the city. No person, except the owner of the premises from which taken,
shall take or convey through the streets any garbage or other refuse matter
without a license. Such license shall be issued by the City Manager upon
direction of the City Council, and payment of a fee as from time to time set by
motion of the City Commission in advance by the licensee.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.06 HOUSEHOLDER CONTRACTS AND FEES.
   The person licensed to haul garbage shall receive no compensation from the
city but shall be permitted to make arrangements with residents of the city for
the collection of garbage and any other refuse.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.07 PRIVATE DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   Any person may destroy garbage on his own premises by use of an incinerator
providing total cremation, or by a garbage disposal unit. No garbage or other
refuse matter shall be burned in the open air within the city in such a manner
as to cause offensive smoke or objectionable odors or leave a residue to
attract rodents and insects.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.08 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   Each garbage licensee shall dispose of all garbage entirely outside of the
city limits in such a manner as not to create a public or private nuisance, or
in a sanitary landfill operated by the licensee. No person shall dump garbage
in any area designated by the city as a city dump.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.09 INSPECTIONS.
   Authority to inspect, investigate and report on the service rendered by any
garbage licensee in the collection, delivery and disposal of garbage is given
to the City Manager and the City Board of Health and its inspector and every
licensee shall comply with their recommendations.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   For each and every day the licensee or the property owner or occupant shall
fail to correct any violation of this chapter, noted to them in writing, the
licensee or property owner or occupant may be complained of, as for a separate
and distinct offense and punished as hereinafter provided for.
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69)
§ 50.11 FEES.
   (A)   The city, by resolution of the City Commission, shall have the power
from time to time to establish monthly rates, or do such other acts as may be
required, to maintain the garbage and trash collection service as a benefit to
city residents. An additional collection fee may be required to be paid in
addition to the monthly rate, said collection fee to be set by the City
Commission.
   (B)   The owner of each dwelling and/or unit shall be responsible for
garbage collection charges.
   (C)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to institute monthly billing of
garbage and trash collection, sales and rentals at such time as the Commission
deems this action necessary.
(Ord. passed 3-12-86)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 4.1, passed 3-18-69; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Use of public sewers required
   
51.03   Private sewage disposal
   
51.04   Building sewers and connections
   
51.05   Use of public sewers
   
51.06   Protection from damage
   
51.07   Powers and authority of inspections
Industrial Waste
   
51.20   Short title
   
51.21   Definitions
   
51.22   Treatment or control of sewage
   
51.23   Measurements, tests and reports
   
51.24   Limitation on non-treated wastes
   
51.25   Approval of plans
   
51.26   Human wastes
   
51.27   Control by city
   
51.28   Flow meter
   
51.29   Maintenance charge
   
51.30   Permits and inspections — no special assessment
   
51.31   Permits and inspections — special assessment
   
51.32   Unauthorized conduct
   
51.33   Testing by city
Liens and Sewer Rental Charges
   
51.45   Lien as security
   
51.46   Priority of liens
   
51.47   Exceptions
   
51.48   Guarantee deposit
   
51.49   Calendar year
   
51.50   Unpaid charges
   
51.51   City's recourse
   
51.52   Turn-on fee
   
51.53   Suits by city
   
51.54   Sewer rental rates
 
   
51.98   Violations
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20° C., expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drain pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five fee outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINATION SEWER or COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff
and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, processing, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes, solids, or semi-solids from industrial
processes as distinct from sanitary sewage
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a water course, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of water, either surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the cooking, preparation and
dispensing of food that has been cut or shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing
in public sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Any liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in suspension
or solution, and may include liquids containing chemicals in solution.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collection, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tub or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but which excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are
suspended in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SWRC. The State Water Resources Commission or any of their affiliates, the
State Health Department, State Conservation Commission, Department of Natural
Resources, or the State Highway Department, all being departments of the state.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82)
§ 51.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit or permit to
be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon any public or private property within
the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural watercourse within
the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with standards established by the SWRC.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facilities,
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the city, is hereby required at his own expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly to the public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so has been issued by the city, provided that the public
sewer is within 200 feet of the nearest property line of the premises.
   (E)   Tap-in fees. The following equivalent user factors will be used to
assess tap-in fees. For purposes of this table, an equivalent user is defined
as that quantity of wastewater discharged from an ordinary single-family
dwelling. The volume of wastewater generated by an equivalent user is defined
in each sanitary sewer district. In computing charges for commercial,
industrial, or multiple residences, the number of units for which charges are
made shall be determined from the following equivalent user factors. Where
square footage is used in the calculation of equivalent users, it shall mean
the entire square footage inside the building. When the use of a building
changes substantially the number of equivalent users for the new use, a
supplemental tap-in fee will be assessed for the increased use.
Equivalent User Table
User                  Unit Factor
Equivalent User Table
User                                   Unit Factor
Auto Dealers                           0.40 per 1 ,000 sq. ft.
Auto Repair                            1.00 per shop plus 0.5 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Banks                                  0.25 per employee station
Barber Shops                           1.00 per shop plus 0.1 per chair after 2
Bars                                   4.00 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Beauty Shops                           1.00 per shop plus 0.15 per booth
Bed & Breakfast Establishments         1.00 per building plus 0.2 per guest
                                       room
Boarding Houses                        1.00 per building plus 0.2 per bedroom
Boarding Schools                       0.27 per bed
Bowling Alleys (w/o bars or lunch)     0.16 per alley
Bowling Alleys (w/bar and/or lunch)    0.60 per alley
Car Wash (production line w/o recycle) 10.00 per single production line
Car Wash (production line w/ recycle)  5.00 per single production line
Car Wash (self service)                1.25 per stall
Child Care Centers                     1.00 per premise plus 0.05 per person
Churches                               0.25 per 1,000 sq. ft. (minimum 1.0
                                       unit)
Cleaners (pick up only)                1.00 per shop
Cleaners (pressing facilities)         1.25 per press
Clinics                                0.50 per doctor (minimum 1.0 unit)
Convalescent Homes                     1.00 per premise plus 0.5 per bedroom
Convents                               1.00 per premise plus 0.25 per bedroom
Country Clubs & Athletic Clubs         1.50 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Doctor's Office                        1.00 per premise plus 0.5 per exam room
Drug Stores                            0.40 per 1,000 sq. ft. (minimum 1.0
                                       unit)
Factories (exclusive of industrial     0.50 per 1,000 sq. ft.
flow)
Fire Stations                          0.20 per stationed firefighter/24 hours
Fire Stations (volunteer)              1.00 per premise
Florist                                1.10 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Fraternal Organizations (members only) 1.00 per hall
Fraternal Organizations (members &     2.00 per hall plus bar, restaurant, etc.
rentals)
Funeral Homes                          1.50 per 1,000 sq. ft. plus residence
Garden Center (nursery)                1.00 per premise plus 0.5 per employee
Government Office                      0.40 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Grocery Stores & Markets               1.10 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Hospitals                              1.09 per bed
Hotels/Motels (private baths)          0.25 per bedroom plus bar, restaurant,
                                       etc.
Industrial Building (exclusive of wet  0.50 per 1,000 sq. ft.
process)
Laundry (self-service)                 0.54 per washer
Lumber Yard                            1.00 per each 15 employees
Mobile Homes                           1.00 per pad
Multiple Family Residence              1.00 per dwelling unit
 
User Unit Factor
User                                    Unit Factor
Office Building                         0.40 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Pet Shops                               1.10 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Pool Halls                              0.10 per table
Post Office                             1.00 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Printing Shop                           0.50 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Public Institutions (other than         0.75 per 1,000 sq. ft.
hospitals)
Research & Testing Laboratories         0.75 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Restaurants (dinner and/or drinks)      4.00 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Restaurants (fast food)                 10.00 per restaurant
Restaurants (meals w/service & dishes)  2.50 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Restaurants (take-out)                  1.50 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Retail Stores                           0.30 per 2,000 sq. ft.
Rooming Houses (no meals)               0.25 per room
School (w/o showers and/or pool)        1.00 per classroom
School (w/showers and/or pool)          1.50 per classroom
Senior Citizen Apartments               0.33 per apartment
Service Station
   Gas Service                       0.50 per pump
    w/auto repair                    1.00 per premise plus .15 per stall
   w/mini mart                       1.00 per premise plus .5 per 1,000 sq.
                                        ft. of building
Skating Rinks                           0.40 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Snack Bar (drive-in)                    2.50 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Swimming Pools                          3.00 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Single Family Residence                 1.00 per residence
Sport Centers                           0.05 per employee
Stores (other than specifically listed) 0.25 per 1,000 sq. ft.
Tennis Club                             0.08 per member
Tennis or Handball (indoor club)        0.50 per court
Theaters (drive-in)                     0.03 per car space
Theaters                                0.01 per seat
Tourist Courts (individual bath units)  0.27 per cubicle
Trailer Parks (center bath units)       0.40 per trailer
Veterinary Facility                     2.00 per veterinarian
Veterinary Facility w/kennel            1.50 per facility plus 0.1 per kennel
Warehouses & Storage                    0.10 per 1,000 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-87;
Am. Ord. passed - - 90; Am. Ord. passed 10-4-95; Am. Ord., passed 2-3-98)
§ 51.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected with a private disposal
coupling with the provisions and requirements of Section 403 of the City
Building Code adopted in §
150.01.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.02(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this ordinance, and any septic tanks, privy vaults, cesspool or similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material if its construction is such that it may endanger life or property
through deterioration and collapse.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   (D)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the City Commission or
by the SWRC.
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56; Am. Ord. passed 8-7-58)
§ 51.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
open into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or any appurtenance thereof.
   (B)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner of the property. The owner
shall indemnify the city from all loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Subsequent
to installation and connection of the building sewer to the public sewer, all
repairs or replacements to the section of the building sewer between the edge
of the existing asphalt roadway and the public sewer shall be completed by the
city at its own expense. All costs and expenses for maintenance of the property
owner's building sewer shall be borne by the owner of the property.
   (C)   A connection charge, in an amount set by resolution of the City
Commission, shall be paid to the City Treasurer at the time the application is
filed. All applicants for sewer connections shall first submit plans and
specifications of all plumbing construction within the building or premises,
and such plans and specifications shall meet the requirements of the State
Plumbing Code and all provisions, rules, and regulations of the SWRC or its
affiliates. When the plans and specifications have been approved by the City
Manager and/or the Plumbing Inspector of the city, a construction permit shall
be issued, subject to a final inspection and approval when construction is
completed and ready for connection with the sewer system.
   (D)   The applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the Plumbing
Inspector of the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The Plumbing Inspector or his authorized
representatives shall then inspect the building and plumbing construction
therein and if such construction meets previous requirements as approved in the
construction permit, the Plumbing Inspector of the city shall issue a sewer
connection permit, subject to the provisions of any other applicable provision
of this code or any other ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82; Am. Ord., passed 2-3-98;
Am. Ord. passed 9-7-99)
§ 51.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the City Manager and/or the SWRC. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the City
Manager, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 140° F.
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million by weight of fat, oil, or grease.
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      (4)   Any garbage which has not been properly shredded.
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, wood pulp, paunch manure, or any other solid or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 10.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
the structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, fish or aquatic life, or create any
hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity.
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (D)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are
required by the Plumbing Code and when, in the opinion of the City Manager and/
or the SWRC, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease, in excessive amounts, or any inflammable wastes, sand, or
harmful ingredients except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the City Manager and/or the SWRC and shall be located
as to be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil
interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be
substantially constructed, watertight, and equipped with easily removable
covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and watertight.
   (E)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
   (F)   (1)   The admission into public sewers of any water or wastes having:
         (a)   A five day BOD greater than 300 parts per trillion by weight; or
         (b) Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in §
51.05(C); or
         (c)   Having a daily average flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the city;
shall be subject to the review and approval of the Commission of the city and/
or SWRC.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Commission and/or the SWRC,
the owner shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the BOD to 300 parts per million and the suspended solids
to 350 parts per million by weight; or
         (b)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for in §
51.05(C); or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such water and
wastes.
      (3)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for approval of
the Commission and of the SWRC of the state and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, it shall be maintained in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense.
   (H)   When required by the City Plumbing Code, City Commission, or the SWRC,
the owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes
shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. Such manhole, when required,
shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the City Commission. The manhole shall be installed by
the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in §§
51.05(C) and (F), shall be determined in accordance with standard methods for
the examination of water and sewage and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided for in §
51.05(H), or upon suitable sample taken at said control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement made between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to the payment therefore, by
the industrial concern.
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82)
§ 51.06 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct where the damage amounts to less than $50 and if the damage amounts to
more than $50, then the charge shall be malicious destruction of property.
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56)
§ 51.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTIONS.
   The City Manager and other duly authorized employees or agents of the city,
and agents of the SWRC bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter at any time during reasonable or usual business
hours.
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82)
INDUSTRIAL WASTE
§ 51.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Industrial Waste
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastes from industrial processing, manufacturing
processing, trade or business processing, or business as distinct from human
wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL SEWER LINE. Sewer for the carrying of industrial wastes.
   SEWAGE. Any liquid waste containing animal or vegetable matter in suspension
or solution, and may include liquids containing chemicals in solution.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement or devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT REGULATIONS. The ordinance set forth in §§ 33.15 et seq.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the city.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82)
§ 51.22 TREATMENT OR CONTROL OF SEWAGE.
   The sewage put through the industrial sewer line shall be treated or
controlled to an extent and by means of such facilities that when discharged
into the Belle River they shall:
   (A)   Contain no freely settling or floating solids.
   (B)   Contain no substances of processing waste origin when the flow in the
Belle River upstream from the point of discharge of process wastes is less than
two cubic feet per second.
   (C)   Contain not more than 75 pounds daily of oxygen consuming substances
as measured by the five-day biochemical oxygen demand test for each cubic foot
per second of flow in the Belle River in excess of two cubic feet per second
during the period of May 15 to September 1 of each year, as measured upstream
from the point of discharge of process wastes.
   (D)   Contain no more than 95 pounds daily of oxygen consuming substances as
measured by the five day biochemical oxygen demand test for each cubic foot per
second flow in the Belle River in excess of two cubic foot per second during
the period September 1 to May 15 of the following year, as measured upstream
from the point of discharge of process waste.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.23 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND REPORTS.
   The city shall cause to be determined the daily volume of flow in the Belle
River upstream from the point of discharge of process wastes, shall cause to be
performed measurements and tests of the waste discharges into the Belle River,
and shall cause to be maintained records of operation of waste control
facilities provided in accordance with this subchapter to the extent necessary
to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of §
51.22. Reports of such measurements, tests, and operations shall be filed by
the city with the Chief Engineer of SWRC and the City Manager at the end of
each calendar month.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.24 LIMITATION ON NON-TREATED WASTES.
   No wastes other than cooling and pasteurized water, or other waters which
have not come in contact with substances used in, incidental to, or resulting
from processing operations, shall be discharged into the Belle River without
treatment.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.25 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   All facilities necessary for compliance with the restrictions and conditions
set forth in this subchapter constructed, or to be constructed in the future,
by any person shall be constructed from plans submitted to and approved by the
Michigan State Commissioner of Health, except as provided in §
51.31.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.26 HUMAN WASTES.
   No human wastes shall be discharged into any industrial sewer line that does
not ultimately discharge its wastes into the City Municipal Sewage Treatment
Plant.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.27 CONTROL BY CITY.
   The city shall control or cause to be controlled any and all valves, inlets,
outlets, meters and gauges whatsoever connected to any industrial sewer line.
The use of any industrial sewer line shall be subject to all reasonable and
lawful regulations to be prescribed by the City Commission.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.28 FLOW METER.
   The city shall place, or cause to be placed, a flow meter, measuring in
gallons, the amount of industrial wastes put into any industrial sewer line and
shall cause this meter to be read once every seven days and the daily reading
recorded and filed with the City Manager on the last calendar day of each
month.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.29 MAINTENANCE CHARGE.
   (A)   A maintenance charge of $10 per 500,000 gallons shall be made for any
industrial wastes discharged into any industrial sewer line that the sewage
does not flow through the City Sewage Treatment Plant.
   (B)   In addition thereto, there shall be an annual maintenance charge for
the upkeep of a gauging station or stations in Belle River, the amount to be
prorated among the industries using the same upon a gallon basis. The city
shall make annual statements for these costs.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64; Am. Ord. passed 11-17-64; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82)
§ 51.30 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS — NO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Before any tap-ins, additions to, or any connections whatsoever, including
valves can be made, a written permit signed by the City Manager and/or his
agent shall be required. The application for such a permit shall be made on a
form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the City. A
permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time the application
is filed. The permit shall not become effective until the installation is
completed to the satisfaction of the city and/or its agents. The city shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the city and/or its agents when the work
is ready for the final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered by soil. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of
notice by the city and/or its agents. No permit shall be issued without a prior
permit from either or both SWRC and the Department of Health. The provisions of
this section shall not be applicable in cases where §
51.31 is applicable.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82)
§ 51.31 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS — SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   Notwithstanding, the provisions of §
51.30, when an industrial sewer line is being paid for or financed or has been
paid for or financed by a special assessment (including by way of illustration,
a contract for special assessment as permitted by § 33.31 of the special
assessments regulations) then and in such event, the present and future owners
and occupants of the lots, blocks, pieces, and parcels of land lying within
such special assessment district shall at all times have the right to tap-in
and connect to such industrial sewer line at any location, and use such
industrial sewer line without complying with the provisions of §§
51.25 or
51.30; but the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Before any tap-in or connection or addition (including valves) to the
industrial sewer line is made, the person desiring to do so shall file an
application for permit to do so with the city and shall simultaneously with
such filing, pay a permit and inspection fee.
   (B)   The city shall cause to be issued such permit within 48 hours after
the application therefore is filed and the permit and inspection fee is paid.
If the permit is issued before the installation of the industrial sewer line is
completed, the permit may state that the tap-in or connection or addition to
the industrial sewer line shall not be made until the installation of the
industrial sewer line is substantially completed.
   (C)   The city or its agent shall be allowed to inspect the tap-in,
connection, or addition to the industrial sewer line before the underground
portions are covered by soil. The applicant for the permit shall notify or
cause the city to be notified when the work is ready for final inspection
(before the underground portion is covered with soil). The city shall make such
inspection within 48 hours after receipt by it of such notice.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82)
§ 51.32 UNAUTHORIZED CONDUCT.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently tamper
with, damage, destroy, uncover, defaced any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is part of the municipal industrial sewage line. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.33 TESTING BY CITY.
   The duly authorized employee(s) of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
LIENS AND SEWER RENTAL CHARGES
§ 51.45 LIEN AS SECURITY.
   The city shall have as security for the collection of any water or sewer
rental charges due or to become due on any house or other building or any
premises, lot or lots, parcel or parcels of land, a lien upon such house or
other building and upon the premises or lot, or lots, or parcel or parcels upon
which such house or other building shall be situated or to which such water or
sewer was supplied. Such lien shall become effective immediately upon the
distribution of water to the premises or property, or the discharge of waste
water into the sewer. The official records of the City Manager shall constitute
notice of the pendency of the lien.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56)
§ 51.46 PRIORITY OF LIENS.
   The lien created by this subchapter shall have priority over all other liens
except liens for taxes or special assessments, whether or not such other liens
accrued or were recorded prior to the lien herein created.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56; Am. Ord. passed 11-5-57)
§ 51.47 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply in any instance where a
lease has been legally executed, containing a provision that the lessor shall
not be liable for payment of bills accruing subsequent to the filing
hereinafter provided for; provided that an affidavit with respect to the
execution of such a lease shall be filed with the City Manager and 20 days
notice shall be given by the lessor of any cancellation, change in or
termination of the lease.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56)
§ 51.48 GUARANTEE DEPOSIT.
   Where such an affidavit has been filed with the City Manager by an lessor
and before the water may be turned on in the premises specified in such
affidavit, the lessee shall deposit with the City Manager a “guarantee deposit”
which shall be continuously held by the city as a guarantee of payment for the
protection of the city against any damage to the service pipe, service cock,
stop box and water meters. Provided, however, that whenever the customer shall
have promptly paid his bills for at least two years and has otherwise
established satisfactory credit in the city, the Commission may refund his
deposit. No deposit shall be required from customers who have promptly paid
their water and sewer bills for the two years preceding the enactment of this
chapter.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56)
§ 51.49 CALENDAR YEAR.
   For the purpose of making and collecting water and sewer rental charges the
calendar year shall be divided and designated as follows: quarterly periods
shall begin on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 respectively, and shall
extend to the beginning of the succeeding quarter and all rates and charges
after the 20th of the month shall have 10% added to them.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56)
§ 51.50 UNPAID CHARGES.
   (A)   All unpaid charges which upon January 1 of each year have remained
unpaid for a period of three months or more shall be reported by the City
Manager to the City Commission at the first meeting in the month of January.
The City Commission shall thereupon order the publication in a newspaper
published in the city, of notice to all owners of property within the city that
all unpaid charges which have remained unpaid for a period of three months or
more as of January 1 that have not been paid by the next January 31 will be
transferred to the tax roll and assessed upon the city's tax roll against the
property to which the unpaid rates or charges accrued to be collected in the
same manner as the lien created by the city taxes on the tax roll.
   (B)   All unpaid charges which are reported by the City Manager to the City
Commission as having been unpaid for a period of three months or more on
January 1 of each year which remain unpaid on January 31 shall be transferred
to the city's tax roll assessed against the property to which the services were
supplied or furnished for which the unpaid rates or charges accrued, to be
collected with and in the same manner as city taxes are collected, and if the
same shall remain delinquent and unpaid after the expiration of the time limit
in the warrant for the collection of taxes levied in the roll, such charges
shall be returned to the County Treasurer to be collected in the same manner as
the lien created by city taxes on delinquent tax roll of the city.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56)
§ 51.51 CITY'S RECOURSE.
   The city may discontinue water service to the premises or property against
which the lien therein created has accrued and shall not be turned on again to
said premises or property or to the occupant of such premises property who
shall have refused or failed to pay such rates or charges until the same have
been paid; provided that where an affidavit of lease has been filed with the
City Manager in accordance with the provisions of §
51.47, the amount of any such unpaid rates or charges shall be deducted from
the deposit provided for in §
51.48 and where such unpaid rates or charges exceed the amount of the deposit,
the city may discontinue water service from the premises or property leased and
as to such lessee individually until the same are paid and the amount of the
deposit herein provided for reestablished in full; provided further that such
discontinuance from any such premises or property shall cease upon the
termination of the lease which affidavit has been given and removal of such
lessee from the premises or property.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56)
§ 51.52 TURN-ON FEE.
   In all cases where water service has been discontinued to any premises or
property because of nonpayment of any charges or other reason, the city shall
charge a “turn-on” fee as from time to time set by motion of the City
Commission at the time the water is turned on.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56)
§ 51.53 SUITS BY CITY.
   Unpaid water or sewer rental charges may also be collected by suit brought
in the name of the city against the owner or occupant of the premises or
property, or both.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56)
§ 51.54 SEWER RENTAL RATES.
   Rate schedule for sewer rentals are hereby established as follows:
   (A)   Sewer Rates.
         (1)   0 - 5,000 gallons         $32.00/minimum charge
         (2)   5,001 + gallons         $5.50/thousand gallons
   (B)   Residences: Resident's third quarter sewer charge will be based on
water consumption of the second quarter.
   (C)   Resident's with separate meter. A property owner may, upon application
to the City Manager, install a water meter which shall meter water used on the
exterior of the residence and not enter the sanitary sewer system. Water so
consumed will not have sewer charges added thereto. The location of said meter
shall be approved by the Superintendent of the Department of Public Works and
installed under his direction. A part of the application form shall contain a
statement by the owner that the water used in accordance with this section
shall not enter the sanitary sewer system. The meter to be installed shall be
purchased from the city. All expenses incurred for the installation of same
shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 12.1, passed 11-30-56; Am. Ord. passed 8-11-76; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-77;
Am. Ord. passed 3-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 5-7-96; Am. Ord. passed 5-20-97; Am.
Ord. passed 8-19-08; Am. Ord. 12.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 51.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.07, except §
51.06, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
such violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through 51.08 shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned to the city by reason of such violation.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
51.20 through
51.32 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned by the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56; Am. Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.98 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 and the costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court. Each day or fraction of a day
in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person or persons found to be violating any provision of this §
51.20 through
51.33, except §
51.32, shall be served by the city with written notice specifying the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, cease such violations. Any person or persons who shall continue
any such violation beyond the time limit provided for in this section shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $500 fine and court costs for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue beyond the time limit
stated in the notice provided for in this section shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 12.2, passed 12-1-56; Am. Ord. 12.3, passed 2-4-64)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Vandalism to water works system
   
52.02   Intent to obstruct water supply
   
52.03   Permission needed for water service
   
52.04   Connections to be made by city only
   
52.05   Permission needed for hydrant use
   
52.06   Applications needed for connections
   
52.07   Granting of application
   
52.08   Water meters
   
52.09   Leaks and neglect of faucets
   
52.10   Request for shutoff
   
52.11   Water bills
   
52.12   Water rates
   
52.13   Water users outside city limits
   
52.14   Turning on water supply
   
52.15   Reserved
   
52.16   Deposit to be made
   
52.17   Reselling of water
   
52.18   Reserved
   
52.19   Service to conform to Michigan Plumbing Code
   
52.20   Repair expenses
   
52.21   Shut-off and service boxes
   
52.22   Reserved
   
52.23   Disconnection for late payment
   
52.24   City Attorney's duties
   
52.25   Water allowed sold outside of city
   
52.26   Rental units
   
52.27   Monthly billing
   
52.28   Partitioning of premises
Cross-Connections
   
52.45   Adopted by reference
   
52.46   Inspections
   
52.47   Right to enter
   
52.48   Discontinuance of service
   
52.49   Protection of water and notice of contamination
   
52.50   State plumbing code
   
52.51   Wells and groundwater use prohibited
   
52.52   Exceptions to prohibition
   
52.53   Backflow preventer
   
52.54   Testing of backflow preventer
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 VANDALISM TO WATER WORKS SYSTEM.
   No person shall deface, damage, or obstruct or commit any act tending to
deface, damage or obstruct in any manner any building, machinery, pipes, mains,
fittings, or apparatus or other fixtures in connection with the Water Works
System owned or operated by the city.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.02 INTENT TO OBSTRUCT WATER SUPPLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit any dirt or other
material in any fire hydrant or in any valve box or curb stop box or to commit
any act tending to obstruct the use thereof or in any way injure any fixture
connected with the Water Works System owned and operated by the city.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.03 PERMISSION NEEDED FOR WATER SERVICE.
   No person whether a licensed plumber or otherwise after making any
connection with the water service pipes or after making repairs or putting in
any new appliance or attachment shall leave the curb box stop open or let the
water into the premises connected therewith without permission of the
Superintendent of the Public Works of the city, other than a city employee
under the direction of the Superintendent of the Public Works Department,
change, set, or disconnect a meter on any premises served by the Water Works
System owned and operated by the city.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.04 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE BY CITY ONLY.
   No person other than city employees under the direction of the
Superintendent of the Public Works Department of the city shall make a
connection with the water mains or distribution system of the Water Works
System.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.05 PERMISSION NEEDED FOR HYDRANT USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than city employees to use any
Fire Hydrant of the city without first obtaining permission from the city and/
or the Superintendent of the Public Works Department of the city.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82)
§ 52.06 APPLICATIONS NEEDED FOR CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All applications for connections with the Water System of the city
shall be made at the City Office on forms furnished by the city. The forms
shall contain a statement indicating the use of the water.
   (B)   Connection fees shall be made according to a fee schedule as adopted
by motion of the City Commission.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. passed 12-6-78; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-87;
Am. Ord. passed - -90; Am. Ord. passed 10-4-95; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.07 GRANTING OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   All service pipes from the mains to the premises served shall be
installed by, and at the cost of the owner of the property to be served or the
applicant for the service. Such installation shall be under the inspection of
the Superintendent of Public Works. The curb stop and box shall be located
between the curb line and the sidewalk line and be provided with suitable
service box at the time of installation.
   (B)   Service pipes laid from the water main to and including the curb stop
shall from then on be maintained at the expense of the city. Service pipes laid
from the curb stop to the premises served shall be maintained at the expense of
the owner.
   (C)   All pipes underground shall be copper and of a type and size approved
by the Superintendent of the Public Works Department. All new water mains
served by the city shall be a minimum eight inch diameter.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.08 WATER METERS.
   (A)   All water in the city shall be metered and the consumer or property
owner is required to make a deposit without interest to the city before service
is turned on. The consumer or property owner must not cover meters or place
obstructions that may prevent convenient access to the meter at all times.
Water meters may not be placed in a crawl space or similar confined space area.
The owner or consumer will be held responsible for damage to meter caused by
frost or neglect.
   (B)   If a meter fails to register, an average will be obtained from the
readings taken for four previous quarters when the meter was known to be
operating correctly and this figure shall be used as a basis for payment for
the period while the meter was out of order.
   (C)   The City Manager and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, replacement and/or testing, in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter at any time during reasonable or usual business hours.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-58; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-
09)
§ 52.09 LEAKS AND NEGLECT OF FAUCETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to leave open any faucets or
hydrants so as to allow water to be discharged through same, except for
legitimate use or to knowingly permit any water pipes or fixtures upon his
premises to remain in leaking condition. It shall be the duty of the
Superintendent of the Public Works Department to turn off and refuse water to
person or persons violating any of the provisions of this section until such
time as the person or persons shall pay to the city such amount for the
unlawful water as the Superintendent shall after investigation estimate the
amount to be.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.10 REQUEST FOR SHUTOFF.
   Water shall be shut off at the consumer's or property owner's request for
laying up the premises or for other reasons. When so shut off, a service fee
shall be charged before water is again turned on. The service fee shall be as
adopted by motion of the City Commission.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. passed 6-24-87; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-
09)
§ 52.11 WATER BILLS.
   Water bills are payable quarterly. The City Manager is authorized to take
such steps as may be necessary to stagger the billing periods of the various
users throughout the city so that approximately an equal number of bills will
come due each 30 days after due or payable date. Payment arrangements may be
made allowing a customer to make payments over the upcoming three month period,
provided that the bill is paid in its entirety by the time the next water bills
are mailed out. If payment arrangements are not made, or if a customer fails to
make payments as scheduled, water will be shut off without further notice and
will not be turned on again until all arrearages are paid. In addition a fee
will be charged for turning on said water. The fee will be in accordance with a
fee schedule as adopted by motion of the City Commission. The failure to
receive a bill does not entitle the consumer to exception from penalty.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.12 WATER RATES.
   Water rates will be as established by motion of the City Commission.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.13 WATER USERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Premises served by the city outside of the city limits shall be billed at
two times the rate charged to premises within the city limits plus a quarterly
charge equal to six mills multiplied by the taxable value as it appears on the
township tax roll on July 1 of each year. The result shall be divided by four
and added to the rates established. All installation costs to be paid by
properties being served.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.14 TURNING ON WATER SUPPLY.
   No water from the city water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person but the Superintendent of Public Works or some person
authorized by him to perform this service.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. passed 1-17-73)
§ 52.15 RESERVED.
§ 52.16 DEPOSIT TO BE MADE.
   A deposit in an amount established by motion of the City Commission shall be
made with each such application, this sum to be retained by the city to insure
payment of all bills; when service to the applicant is discontinued
permanently, this deposit less any amount still due the city for water service
shall be refunded without interest. The deposit shall be returned at the end of
two years of service provided that payments for service rendered have been
prompt.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.17 RESELLING OF WATER.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the
city supply to any premises other than that for which application has been made
and the meter installed, except in case of emergency.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.18 RESERVED.
§ 52.19 SERVICE TO CONFORM TO MICHIGAN PLUMBING CODE.
   No service shall be installed unless it conforms to the Michigan Plumbing
Code.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. passed 1-13-82; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-
09)
Cross-reference:
   Michigan Plumbing Code to be enforced in city, see §
150.01
§ 52.20 REPAIR EXPENSES.
   All repairs for service pipes and the plumbing systems of buildings shall be
made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises served.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.21 SHUT-OFF AND SERVICE BOXES.
   Shut-off boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe, and
shall be located one foot from property line where this is practicable. Such
boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible and shall be
protected from frost.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.22 RESERVED.
§ 52.23 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time the customer may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of the customer's choosing and may present
orally or in writing the complaint and contentions to the city official in
charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays will only be considered under the payment
arrangement allowance described in §
52.11; otherwise, only question of proper and correct billing will be
considered. In the absence of payment of the bill rendered, payment arrangement
or a resort to the hearing procedure provided herein, service will be
discontinued at the time specified.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid and any deposit required has been
made.
(Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.24 CITY ATTORNEY'S DUTIES.
   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters, against any property outside of the city limits for which a water
bill has remained unpaid 60 days after it has been rendered.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.25 WATER ALLOWED SOLD OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   No more than 25% of the water available to the city shall be sold to outside
residents.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.26 RENTAL UNITS.
   Each unit of an apartment house, condominium, trailer park, commercial
building or similar enterprise shall constitute a separate minimum bill. In all
cases, the owner shall ultimately be responsible for all billings to the unit.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48; Am. Ord. 11.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.27 MONTHLY BILLING.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to institute monthly billing of water
sales and sewer rentals at such a time as the Commission deems this action
necessary.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
§ 52.28 PARTITIONING OF PREMISES.
   Where premises are partitioned after July 1, of any year requiring an
additional service or services, the additional service charge shall be computed
prorating the equalized valuation between the premises served. Such proration
of the valuation shall be made by the City Manager.
(Ord. 11.1, passed 7-1-48)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 52.45 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules of the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, being R 325.11401 through R
325.411407 of the Michigan Administrative Code.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 12-5-78; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-12)
§ 52.46 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the city to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water supply where cross connections with the
public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the Department of Public Works and as approved by the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 12-5-78; Am. Ord. passed 3-6-12)
§ 52.47 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   The representative of the Department of Public Works shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply system of the city for the purpose of inspecting the piping system
or systems thereof for cross connections. On request the owner, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property.
The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deigned evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 12-5-78)
§ 52.48 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The Department of Public Works is authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the
cross-connections have been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 12-5-78)
§ 52.49 PROTECTION OF WATER AND NOTICE OF CONTAMINATION.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this subchapter and by the state and city plumbing code. Any water outlet
which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
   WATER UNSAFE
   FOR DRINKING
(Ord. 16.1, passed 12-5-78)
§ 52.50 STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   This chapter does not supersede the state plumbing code enforced by the city
(see § 150.15(C)), but is supplementary to it.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 12-5-78)
Cross-reference:
   State Plumbing Code, § 150.15(C)
§ 52.51 WELLS AND GROUNDWATER USE PROHIBITED.
   Except as provided in §
52.52, no person shall install or utilize, or allow, permit or provide for the
installation or utilization of a well within the city. Except as provided in §
52.52, no person shall use any groundwater from any property located within the
city for any purpose.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 9-1-09) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.52 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION.
   (A)   A person may install or utilize, or allow, permit or provide for the
installation or utilization of, a well within the city if any of the following
exceptions applies and the requirements of the exception are complied with:
      (1)   Groundwater monitoring. A well may be installed or utilized for
groundwater monitoring or remediation as part of response activities approved
by the USEPA or MDEQ, or consistent with a plan meeting the requirements of
applicable federal or state environmental law, without prior approval or
issuance of a permit by the city.
      (2)   Construction dewatering. A well may be used for construction
dewatering, subject to issuance of a well permit by the city, if the following
conditions are satisfied: the use of the dewatering well will not result in
unacceptable exposure to contaminated groundwater, possible cross-contamination
between saturated zones or adverse hydrogeological effects on contaminated
groundwater plumes. The burden and cost of making the determinations under this
subsection and properly handling and disposing of water shall be borne solely
by the person proposing to install the dewatering well, which costs shall
include the actual cost for the city's staff or professional contractors
reviewing such determinations and issuance of any permit required under this
chapter; and the water generated by the dewatering activity is handled and
disposed of in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations, permit
and license requirements, orders and directives of any governmental entity or
agency of competent jurisdiction. Any exacerbation of contaminated groundwater,
any release of hazardous substances or any violation of any other federal,
state or local law which is caused by the use of the well under this exception
shall be the responsibility of the person operating the dewatering well.
      (3)   Public emergencies. A well may be used in the event of a public
emergency, as such an emergency is determined by the city.
      (4)   Pre-existing wells. Pre-existing wells may continue to be used for
the purpose constructed until such time as they require replacement. Connection
must then be made to the public water supply if available within 200 feet. If
public water service is not available to properties with existing wells, a new
well may be constructed.
   (B)   Under this section, a right-of-way permit shall be required prior to
installing any well in a city-owned right-of-way except in the case of a public
emergency.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 9-1-09)
§ 52.53 BACKFLOW PREVENTER.
   Any newly constructed commercial or industrial facility that is connected to
the public water supply shall provide service line protection or containment by
installing a proper backflow preventer approved by the State Plumbing Code. The
required backflow preventer must be installed downstream of the water meter.
All existing facilities will be subject to a containment order by the city's
Cross Connection Inspector.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 3-6-12)
§ 52.54 TESTING OF BACKFLOW PREVENTER.
   All testable backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at the time of
installation or relocation and after any repair. Subsequent testing of devices
shall be conducted at a time interval specified by the Department of Public
Works and in accordance with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
requirements. Only individuals that hold a valid Michigan plumbing license and
have successfully passed an approved backflow testing class shall perform such
testing. Each tester shall also be approved by the Department of Public Works.
Individual(s) performing assembly testing shall certify the results of his/her
testing.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 3-6-12)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter or any written order of the Department of Public Works, in
pursuance thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a municipal civil infraction.
Fines and other relief shall be established by resolution of the City
Commission or state law. Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation.
(Ord. 16.1, passed 9-1-09)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption by reference
   
70.02   Operating under the influence
Cost Recovery for Driving Under the Influence
   
70.15   Findings
   
70.16   Definitions
   
70.17   Expenses covered by reimbursement
   
70.18   Presumption of liability
   
70.19   Interpretation
   
70.20   Reimbursement
   
70.21   Unison with related regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   (1)   The Michigan Uniform Traffic Code is adopted by reference as if
fully set forth herein. Copies of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code can be
found at the City Clerk's office for inspection and distribution.
      (2)   Amendments to the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code are hereby adopted
by reference as if fully set forth herein. Copies of these amendments can be
found at the City Clerk's office for inspection and distribution.
   (B)   The following provisions of the Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300
of 1949, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq.) are hereby adopted by
reference.
      (1)   Chapter 1 (Words and phrased defined): §§ 257.1 to 257.82.
      (2)   Chapter 2 (Administration, Registration): §§ 257.225, 257.228,
257.243, 257.244, 257.255, and 257.256.
      (3)   Chapter 3 (Operators and Chauffeurs Licenses): M.C.L.A. §§
257.310E, 257.311, 257.312a, 257.324, 257.325, 257.326, 257.328.
      (4)   Chapter 6 (Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws): §§ 257.601 to
257.601b, 257.602 to 257.606, 257.611 to 257.616, 257.617a to 257.622, 257.624a
to 257.624b, 257.625 (except felony provisions), 257.625a to 257.625m, 257.626
to 257.626b, 257.627 to 257.627b, 257.629b, 257.631 to 257.632, 257.632,
257.634 to 257.645, 257.647 to 257.655, 257.656 to 257.662, 257.667 to
257.675d, 257.676 to 257.682b, 257.683 to 257.725b.
      (5)   Motor Carriers: §§ 480.11(a), 480.12(d), 480.13, 480.14, 480.15,
480.16, 480.17, 480.17(b), 480.17(c), 480.17(d), 480.18, 480.19, 480.20,
480.21, 480.22, 480.23, 480.24, and 480.25.
      (6)   Chapter 8 (License Offenses): 257.904 to 257.904a, 257.904e,
257.905.
   (C)   Type of penalties. The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code
and the provisions of the state laws adopted by reference in division (B) above
are hereby adopted as the penalties for violation of the corresponding
provisions in division (B) above.
(Ord. 8.1, passed - - ; Am. Ord., passed 2-21-78; Am. Ord., passed 4-5-83; Am.
Ord., passed 3-6-90; Am. Ord. passed 4-18-00; Am. Ord. 8.1(E), passed 10-20-09)
§ 70.02 OPERATING UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   Operating, or authorizing or knowingly permitting another person to
operate motor vehicle while under influence of intoxicating liquor or
controlled substance, or combination thereof, or with certain blood alcohol
content prohibited; operating motor vehicle when visibly impaired prohibited;
penalties for causing death or serious impairment of a body function; operation
of motor vehicle by person less than 21 years of age; sanctions; costs;
enhanced sentence; guilty plea or nolo contenders; establishment of prior
conviction; attempted violations; special verdict; public record.
      (1)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within this city if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a
controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance.
         (b)   The person has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
      (2)   The owner of a vehicle or a person in charge or in control of a
vehicle shall not authorize or knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of motor vehicles,
within this city by a person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor
or a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a
controlled substance, or who has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per
100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of
urine.
      (3)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles within
this city when, due to the consumption of an intoxicating liquor, a controlled
substance, or a combination of an intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance, the person's ability to operate the vehicle is visibly impaired. If
a person is charged with violating division (A)(1) of this section, a finding
of guilty under division (A)(3) of this section may be rendered.
      (4)   A person who is less than 21 years of age, whether licensed or not,
shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles, within this city if the person has any bodily
alcohol content. As used in this division (A)(4) of this section, “any bodily
alcohol content” means either of the following:
         (a)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more than 0.07
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
         (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person's body resulting from
the consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
      (5)   If a person is convicted of violating division (A)(1) of this
section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(5)(b) and (d) of
this section, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more
of the following:
            1.   Community service for not more than 45 days.
            2.   Imprisonment for not more than 90 days.
            3.   A fine of not less than $100 or more than $500.
         (b)   If the violation occurs within seven years of a prior
conviction, the person shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $200
or more than $1,000 and either of the following:
            1.   Community service for not less than ten days or more than 90
days and may be imprisoned for not more than 1 year.
            2.   Imprisonment for not less than 48 consecutive hours or more
than one year and may be sentenced to community service for not more than 90
days.
         (c)   A term of imprisonment imposed under division (A)(5)(b)2. of
this section shall not be suspended.
         (d)   As used in this division (A)(5)(d) of this section, “prior
conviction” means a conviction for a violation or attempted violation of
division (A)(1), (4), or (5) of this section or former section division (A)(1)
or (2) of this section, or a law of another state substantially corresponding
to division (A)(1), (4), or (5) of this section or former section 5.15(1) or
(2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code.
      (6)   A person who is convicted of violating division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than
90 days or a fine of not less than $100 or more than $500, or both.
      (7)   If a person is convicted of violating division (A)(3) of this
section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(7)(b) and (c) of
this section, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more
of the following:
            1.   Community service for not more than 45 days.
            2.   Imprisonment for not more than 90 days.
            3.   A fine of not more than $300.
         (b)   If the violation occurs within seven years of one prior
conviction, the person shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $200
or more than $1,000, and either of the following.
            1.   Community service for not less than ten days.
            2.   Imprisonment for not more than one year and may be sentenced
to community service for not more than 90 days.
            3.   A fine of not more than $300.
         (c)   If the violation occurs within ten years of two or more prior
convictions, the person shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $200
or more than $1,000, and either of the following:
            1.   Community service for not less than ten days or more than 90
days and may be sentenced to imprisonment for not more than one year.
            2.   Imprisonment for not more than one year and may be sentenced
to community service for not more than 90 days.
         (d)   As used in this division (A)(7) of this section, “prior
conviction” means a conviction for a violation or attempted violation of
division (A)(1), (3), (4), or (5) of this section, former section 5.15(1) or
(2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former section 5.15b of the
Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of another state substantially
corresponding to division (A)(1), (3), (4), or (5) of this section, former
section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former section
5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code.
      (8)   If a person is convicted of violating division (A)(4) of this
section, the following shall apply:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(8)(b) of this
section the person is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or both of the
following:
            1.   Community service for not more than 45 days.
            2.   A fine of not more than $250.
         (b)   If the violation occurs within seven years of one or more prior
convictions, the person may be sentenced to one or both of the following:
            1.   Community service for not more than 60 days.
            2.   A fine of not more than $500.
         (c)   As used in this division (A)(8) of this section, “prior
conviction” means a conviction for a violation or attempted violation of
division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of
the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former section 5.15b of the Michigan
Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of another state substantially corresponding to
division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of
the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former section 5.15b of the Michigan
Uniform Traffic Code.
      (9)   In addition to imposing the sanctions prescribed under division (A)
(5), (7), or (8) of this section, the court may order the person to pay the
costs of the prosecution, pursuant to the code of criminal procedure, Act No.
175 of the Public Acts of 1927, being M.C.L.A. §§ 760.1 to 776.21, and/or local
ordinance.
      (10)   The court shall impose license sanctions pursuant to division (C)
of this section.
      (11)   A person sentenced to perform community service under this
division shall not receive compensation and shall reimburse the city for the
cost of supervision incurred by the city as a result of the person's activities
in that service.
      (12)   If the prosecuting attorney intends to seek an enhanced sentence
under division (A)(5)(b) or (d), (7)(b) or (c), or (8)(b) of this section based
upon the defendant having one or more prior convictions, the prosecuting
attorney shall include on the complaint and information, or an amended
complaint and information, filed in district court, circuit court recorder's
court, municipal court, or probate court a statement listing the defendant's
prior convictions.
      (13)   If a person is charged with a violation of divisions (A)(1) or (3)
of this section, the court shall not permit the defendant to enter a plea of
guilty or nolo contenders to a charge of violating division (A)(4) of this
section in exchange for dismissal of the original charge. This division (A)(13)
of this section does not prohibit the court from dismissing the charge upon the
motion of the prosecuting attorney.
      (14)   A prior conviction shall be established at sentencing by one or
more of the following:
         (a)   An abstract of conviction.
         (b)   A copy of the defendant's driving record.
         (c)   An admission by the defendant.
      (15)   A person who is convicted of an attempted violation of division
(A)(1), (3), or (4) of this section shall be punished as if the offense had
been completed.
      (16)   When assessing points and taking licensing action under this act,
the Secretary of State and the court shall treat a conviction of an attempted
violation of division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this section or a law of another
state substantially corresponding to division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this
section the same as if the offense had been completed.
      (17)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(19) of this section,
if a person is charged with operating a vehicle while under the influence of a
controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance in violation of division (A)(1) of this section, the court shall
require the jury to return a special verdict in the form of a written finding
or, if the court convicts the person without a jury or accepts a plea of guilty
or nolo contenders, the court shall make a finding as to whether the person was
under the influence of a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating
liquor and a controlled substance at the time of the violation.
      (18)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(19) of this section,
if a person is charged with operating a vehicle while his or her ability to
operate the vehicle was visibly impaired due to his or her consumption of a
controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance in violation of division (A)(3) of this section, the court shall
require the jury to return a special verdict in the form of a written finding
or, if the court convicts the person without a jury or accepts a plea of guilty
or nolo contenders, the court shall make a finding as to whether, due to the
consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor
and a controlled substance, the person's ability to operate a motor vehicle was
visibly impaired at the time of the violation.
      (19)   A special verdict described in division (A)(17) and (18) of this
section is not required if a jury is instructed to make a finding solely as to
either of the following:
         (a)   Whether the defendant was under the influence of a controlled
substance or of a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance
at the time of the violation.
         (b)   Whether the defendant was visibly impaired due to his or her
consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor
and a controlled substance at the time of the violation.
      (20)   If a jury or court makes a finding under division (A)(17), (18),
or (19) of this section that the defendant operated a motor vehicle under the
influence of or while impaired due to the consumption of a controlled
substance, or combination of a controlled substance and an intoxicating liquor,
the court shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Report the finding to the Secretary of State.
         (b)   Forward to the Department of State Police, on a form or forms
prescribed by the state court administrator, a record that specifies the
penalties imposed by the court, including any term of imprisonment and any
licensing sanction imposed under division (C) of this section.
      (21)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a record described in
division (A)(20)(b) of this section is a public record, and the Department of
State Police shall retain the information contained on that record for a period
of not less than seven years.
      (22)   In a prosecution for a violation of division (A)(4) of this
section, the defendant shall bear the burden of proving that the consumption of
intoxicating liquor was a part of a generally recognized religious service or
ceremony by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (B)   Reasonable cause to believe operator of vehicle involved in accident
in violation of division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this section; arrest;
preliminary chemical breath analysis; determining whether operator should be
ordered out-of-service; refusal of commercial motor vehicle operator to submit
to breath analysis as misdemeanor; provisions applicable to chemical tests and
analysis: evidence; availability of test results: presumptions: admissibility
of refusal to submit to chemical test.
      (1)   A peace officer may arrest a person without a warrant when the
peace officer has reasonable cause to believe the person was, at the time of an
accident in this city, the operator of a vehicle involved in the accident and
was operating the vehicle in violation of division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this
section.
      (2)   A peace officer who has reasonable cause to believe that a person
was operating a vehicle upon a public highway or other place open to the public
or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles, within this city and that the person by the consumption of
intoxicating liquor may have affected his or her ability to operate a vehicle,
or reasonable cause to believe that a person was operating a commercial motor
vehicle within the city while the person's blood, breath, or urine contained
any measurable amount of alcohol or while the person had any detectable
presence of intoxicating liquor, or reasonable cause to believe that a person
who is less than 21 years of age was operating a vehicle upon a public highway
or other place open to the public or generally accessible to motor vehicles,
including an area designated for the parking of vehicles, within this city,
while the person had any bodily alcohol content as that term is defined in
division (A)(4) of this section, may require the person to submit to a
preliminary chemical breath analysis. The following provisions apply with
respect to a preliminary chemical breath analysis administered pursuant to this
division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A peace officer may arrest a person based in whole or in part
upon the results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis.
         (b)   The results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis are
admissible in a criminal prosecution for a crime enumerated in (D)(1) of this
section or in an administrative hearing for one or more of the following
purposes:
            1.   To assist the court or hearing officer in determining a
challenge to the validity of an arrest. This division (B)(2)(b)1. of this
section does not limit the introduction of other competent evidence offered to
establish the validity of an arrest.
            2.   As evidence of the defendant's breath alcohol content, if
offered by the defendant.
            3.   As evidence of the defendant's breath alcohol content, if
offered by the prosecution to rebut testimony or other evidence, including but
not limited to testimony elicited on cross-examination of a prosecution
witness, that is offered or elicited to prove that the defendant's breath
alcohol content was lower at the time of the charged offense when a chemical
test was administered pursuant to division (B)(6) of this section.
         (c)   A person who submits to a preliminary chemical breath analysis
remains subject to the requirements of divisions (D) through (G) of this
section for purposes of chemical tests described in those divisions.
         (d)   Except as provided in division (B)(5) of this section, a person
who refuses to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis upon a lawful
request by a peace officer is responsible for a civil infraction.
      (3)   A peace officer shall use the results of a preliminary chemical
breath analysis conducted pursuant to this division to determine whether to
order a person out-of-service under section 319d of the Michigan Uniform
Traffic Code. A peace officer shall order out-of-service as required under
section 319d of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code a person who was operating a
commercial motor vehicle and who refuses to submit to a preliminary chemical
breath analysis as provided in this division. This division does not limit use
of other competent evidence by the peace officer to determine whether to order
a person out-of-service under section 319d of the Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code.
      (4)   A person who was operating a commercial motor vehicle and who is
requested to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis under this
division shall be advised that refusing a peace officer's request to take a
test described in this division is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for
not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $100, or both, and will result
in the issuance of a 24-hour out-of-service order.
      (5)   A person who was operating a commercial motor vehicle and who
refuses to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis upon a peace
officer's lawful request is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment
for not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $100, or both.
      (6)   The following provisions apply with respect to chemical tests and
analysis of a person's blood, urine, or breath, other than preliminary chemical
breath analysis:
         (a)   The amount of alcohol or presence of a controlled substance or
both in a driver's blood or urine or the amount of alcohol in a person's breath
at the time alleged as shown by chemical analysis of the person's blood, urine,
or breath is admissible into evidence in any civil or criminal proceeding.
         (b)   A person arrested for a crime described in division (D)(1) of
this section shall be advised of all of the following:
            1.   If he or she takes a chemical test of his or her blood, urine,
or breath administered at the request of a peace officer, he or she has the
right to demand that a person of his or her own choosing administer one of the
chemical tests.
            2.   The results of the test are admissible in a judicial
proceeding as provided under this act and will be considered with other
competent evidence in determining the defendant's innocence or guilt.
            3.   He or she is responsible for obtaining a chemical analysis of
a test sample obtained pursuant to his or her own request.
            4.   If he or she refuses the request of a peace officer to take a
test described in division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section, a test shall not be
given without a court order, but the peace officer may seek to obtain such a
court order.
            5.   Refusing a peace officer's request to take a test described in
division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section will result in the suspension of his or
her operator's or chauffeur's license and vehicle group designation or
operating privilege and in the addition of six points to his or her driver
record.
         (c)   A sample or specimen of urine or breath shall be taken and
collected in a reasonable manner. Only a licensed physician, or an individual
operating under the delegation of a licensed physician under section 16215 of
the Public Health Code, Act No. 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, being M.C.L.A.
§ 333.16215, qualified to withdraw blood and acting in a medical environment,
may withdraw blood at a peace officer's request to determine the amount of
alcohol or presence of a controlled substance or both in the person's blood, as
provided in this division (B)(6)(c) of this section. Liability for a crime or
civil damages predicated on the act of withdrawing or analyzing blood and
related procedures does not attach to a licensed physician or individual
operating under the delegation of a licensed physician who withdraws or
analyzes blood or assists in the withdrawal or analysis in accordance with this
act unless the withdrawal or analysis is performed in a negligent manner.
         (d)   A chemical test described in this division (B)(6)(d) of this
section shall be administered at the request of a peace officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person has committed a crime described in
division (D)(1) of this section. A person who takes a chemical test
administered at a peace officer's request as provided in this section shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to have a person of his or her own choosing
administer one of the chemical tests described in this division (B)(6)(d) of
this section within a reasonable time after his or her detention. The test
results are admissible and shall be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the defendant's innocence or guilt. If the person charged is
administered a chemical test by a person of his or her own choosing, the person
charged is responsible for obtaining a chemical analysis of the test sample.
         (e)   If, after an accident, the driver of a vehicle involved in the
accident is transported to a medical facility and a sample of the driver's
blood is withdrawn at that time for medical treatment, the results of a
chemical analysis of that sample are admissible in any civil or criminal
proceeding to show the amount of alcohol or presence of a controlled substance
or both in the person's blood at the time alleged, regardless of whether the
person had been offered or had refused a chemical test. The medical facility or
person performing the chemical analysis shall disclose the results of the
analysis to a prosecuting attorney who requests the results for use in a
criminal prosecution as provided in this division (B)(6)(e) of this section. A
medical facility or person disclosing information in compliance with this
division (B)(6)(e) of this section is not civilly or criminally liable for
making the disclosure.
      (f)   If, after an accident, the driver of a vehicle involved in the
accident is deceased, a sample of the decedent's blood shall be withdrawn in a
manner directed by the medical examiner to determine the amount of alcohol or
the presence of a controlled substance, or both, in the decedent's blood. The
medical examiner shall give the results of the chemical analysis of the sample
to the law enforcement agency investigating the accident and that agency shall
forward the results to the Department of State Police.
         (g)   The Department of State Police shall promulgate uniform rules
under the Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Act No. 306 of the Public Acts
of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 to 24.328, for the administration of chemical
tests for the purposes of this section. An instrument used for a preliminary
chemical breath analysis may be used for a chemical test described in this
division (B)(6)(g) of this section if approved pursuant to rules promulgated by
the Department of State Police.
      (7)   The provisions of division (B)(6) of this section relating to
chemical testing do not limit the introduction of any other competent evidence
bearing upon the question of whether a person was impaired by, or under the
influence of, intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or a combination
of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance, or whether the person had an
alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210
liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine, or if the person is less than
21 years of age, whether the person had any bodily alcohol content within his
or her body. As used in this division, “any bodily alcohol content” means
either of the following:
         (a)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more than 0.07
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
         (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person's body resulting from
the consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
      (8)   If a chemical test described in division (B)(6) of this section is
administered, the test results shall be made available to the person charged or
the person's attorney upon written request to the prosecution, with a copy of
the request filed with the court. The prosecution shall furnish the results at
least two days before the day of the trial. The prosecution shall offer the
test results as evidence in that trial. Failure to fully comply with the
request bars the admission of the results into evidence by the prosecution.
      (9)   Except in a prosecution relating solely to a violation of division
(A)(1)(b) or (6) of this section, the amount of alcohol in the driver's blood,
breath, or urine at the time alleged as shown by chemical analysis of the
person's blood, breath, or urine gives rise to the following presumptions:
         (a)   If there were at the time 0.07 grams or less of alcohol per 100
milliliters of the defendant's blood, per 210 liters of the defendant's breath,
or per 67 milliliters of the defendant's urine, it is presumed that the
defendant's ability to operate a motor vehicle was not impaired due to the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, and that the defendant was not under the
influence of intoxicating liquor.
         (b)   If there were at the time more than 0.07 grams but less than
0.10 grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the defendant's blood, per 210
liters of the defendant's breath, or per 67 milliliters of the defendant's
urine, it is presumed that the defendant's ability to operate a vehicle was
impaired within the provisions of division (A)(3) of this section due to the
consumption of intoxicating liquor.
         (c)   If there were at the time 0.10 grams or more of alcohol per 100
milliliters of the defendant's blood, per 210 liters of the breath, or per 67
milliliters of the defendant's urine, it is presumed that the defendant was
under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
      (10)   A person's refusal to submit to a chemical test as provided in
division (B)(6) of this section is admissible in a criminal prosecution for a
crime described in division (D)(1) of this section only to show that a test was
offered to the defendant, but not as evidence in determining the defendant's
innocence or guilt. The jury shall be instructed accordingly.
   (C)   Arraignment of person arrested for misdemeanor violation: pretrial
conference; advising accused of maximum penalty before acceptance of plea;
screening, assessment, and rehabilitative services; consideration of, prior
convictions: restricted license; surrender of license; suspension or revocation
of group designations; “work location” defined.
      (1)   A person arrested for,a misdemeanor violation of divisions (A)(1),
(3), or (4) or (I) of this section shall be arraigned on the citation,
complaint, or warrant not more than 14 days after the arrest for the violation
or, if an arrest warrant is issued or reissued, not more than 14 days after the
issued or reissued arrest warrant is served, whichever is later. The court
shall not dismiss a case or impose any other sanction for a failure to comply
with this time limit. The time limit does not apply to a violation of division
(A)(1) of this section punishable under division (A)(7)(d) of this section or a
violation of divisions (A)(1), (3), or (4) or (I) of this section joined with a
felony charge.
      (2)   The court shall schedule a pretrial conference between the
prosecuting attorney, the defendant, and the defendant's attorney in each case
in which the defendant is charged with a misdemeanor violation of divisions (A)
(1), (3), or (4) or (I) of this section. The pretrial conference shall be held
not more than 35 days after the person's arrest for the violation or, if an
arrest warrant is issued or reissued, not more than 35 days after the issued or
reissued arrest warrant is served, whichever is later. If the court has only
one judge who sits in more than one location in that district, the pretrial
conference shall be held not more than 42 days after the person's arrest for
the violation or, if an arrest warrant is issued or reissued, not more than 42
days after the date the issued or reissued arrest warrant is served, whichever
is later. The court shall not dismiss a case or impose any other sanction for a
failure to comply with the applicable time limit. The 35- and 42-daytime limits
do not apply to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section punishable under
division (A)(7)(d) of this section or a violation of divisions (A)(1), (3), or
(4) or (I) of this section joined with a felony charge. The court shall order
the defendant to attend the pretrial conference and may accept a plea by the
defendant at the conclusion of the pretrial conference. The court may adjourn
the pretrial conference upon the motion of a party for good cause shown. Not
more than one adjournment shall be granted to a party, and the length of an
adjournment shall not exceed 14 days.
      (3)   Except for delay attributable to the unavailability of the
defendant, a witness, or material evidence or due to an interlocutory appeal or
exceptional circumstances, but not a delay caused by docket congestion, the
court shall finally adjudicate by a plea of guilty or nolo contenders, entry of
a verdict, or other final disposition, a case in which the defendant is charged
with a misdemeanor violation of divisions (A)(1), (3), or (4) or (I) of this
section, within 77 days after the person is arrested for the violation or, if
an arrest warrant is issued or reissued, not more than 77 days after the date
the issued or reissued arrest warrant is served, whichever is later. The court
shall not dismiss a case or impose any other sanction for a failure to comply
with this time limit. The 77-day time limit does not apply to a violation of
division (A)(1) of this section punishable under division (A)(7)(d) of this
section or a violation of divisions (A)(1), (3), or (4) or (I) of this section
joined with a felony charge.
      (4)   Before accepting a plea of guilty or nolo contenders under division
(A)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section, the court shall advise the accused of
the maximum possible term of imprisonment and the maximum possible fine that
maybe imposed for the violation, and shall advise the defendant that the
maximum possible license sanctions that may be imposed will be based upon the
master driving record maintained by the Secretary of State pursuant to section
204a of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code.
      (5)   Before imposing sentence, other than court-ordered license
sanctions, for a violation of division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this section, the
court shall order the person to undergo screening and assessment by a person or
agency designated by the office of substance abuse services to determine
whether the person is likely to benefit from rehabilitative services, including
alcohol or drug education and alcohol or drug treatment programs. As part of
the sentence, the court may order the person to participate in and successfully
complete one or more appropriate rehabilitative programs. The person shall pay
for the costs of the screening, reassessment, and rehabilitative services.
      (6)   Immediately upon acceptance by the court of a plea of guilty or
nolo contenders or upon entry of a verdict of guilty for a violation of
division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this section, whether or not the person is
eligible to be sentenced as a multiple offender, the court shall consider all
prior convictions currently entered upon the person's state driving record,
except convictions the court determines upon the defendant's motion to be
constitutionally invalid, and shall impose the following licensing sanctions:
         (a)   For a conviction under division (A)(1) of this section.
            1.   If the court finds that the person has no prior convictions
within seven years for a violation of division (A)(1) or (3), former section
5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former section 5.15b of
the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of another state substantially
corresponding to division (A)(1) or (3) of this section, former section 5.15(1)
or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former section 5.15b of the
Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, the court shall order the Secretary of State to
suspend the person's operator's or chafferer's license for not less than six
months or more than two years. If the court finds compelling circumstances
under division (C)(10) of this section sufficient to warrant the issuance of a
restricted license to a person, the court may order the Secretary of State to
issue to the person a restricted license during all or a specified portion of
the suspension, except that a restricted license shall not be issued during the
first 30 days of the suspension.
            2.   If the court finds that the person has one prior conviction
within seven years for a violation of division (A)(3) of this section or former
section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, , or a law of another state
substantially corresponding to division (A)(3) of this section or former
section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, the court shall order the
Secretary of State to suspend the person s operator's or chauffeur's license
for not less than six months or more than two years. If the court finds
compelling circumstances under division (C)(10) of this section sufficient to
warrant the issuance of a restricted license to a person, the court may order
the Secretary of State to issue to the person a restricted license during all
or any portion of the suspension, except that a restricted license shall not be
issued during the first 60 days of the suspension.
            3.   If the court finds that the person has one or more prior
convictions within seven years for a violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code,
or a law of another state substantially corresponding to division (A)(1) of
this section or former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code, or that the person has two or more prior convictions within ten years for
a violation of division (A)(1) or (3) of this section, former section 5.15(1)
or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former section 5.15b of the
Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of another state substantially
corresponding to division (A)(1) or (3) of this section, former section 5.15(1)
or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former section 5.15b of the
Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, the court shall order the Secretary of State to
revoke the person's operator's or chauffeur's license and shall not order the
Secretary of State to issue a restricted license to the person.
         (b)   For a conviction under division (A)(3) of this section:
            1.   If the court finds that the convicted person has no prior
conviction within seven years for a violation of division (A)(1) or (3) of this
section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or
former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of another
state substantially corresponding to division (A)(1), (3), (4), or (5) of this
section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or
former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, the court shall
order the Secretary of State to suspend the person's operator's or chauffeur's
license for not less than 90 days or more than one year. However, if the person
is convicted of a violation of division (A)(3) of this section for operating a
vehicle when, due to the consumption of a controlled substance or a combination
of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance, the person's ability to
operate the vehicle was visibly impaired, the court shall order the Secretary
of State to suspend the operator's or chauffeur's license of the person for not
less than six months or more than one year. If the court finds compelling
circumstances under division (C)(10) of this section sufficient to warrant the
issuance of a restricted license to a person, the court may order the Secretary
of State to issue to the person a restricted license during all or a specified
portion of the suspension.
            2.   If the court finds that the person has one prior conviction
within seven years for a violation of division (A)(1) or (3) of this section,
former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former
section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of another state
substantially corresponding to division (A)(1) or (3) of this section, former
section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former 5.15b of
the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, the court shall order the Secretary of State
to suspend the person's operator's or chauffeur's license for not less than six
months or more than two years. If the court finds compelling circumstances
under division (C)(10) of this section sufficient to warrant the issuance of a
restricted license to a person, the court may order the Secretary of State to
issue to the person a restricted license during all or any portion of the
suspension, except that a restricted license shall not be issued during the
first 60 days of the suspension.
            3.   If the court finds that the person has two or more prior
convictions within ten years for a violation of division (A)(1) or (3) of this
section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or
former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of another
state substantially corresponding to division (A)(1) or (3) of this section,
former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or former
section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, the court shall order the
Secretary of State to revoke the person's operator's or chauffeur's license and
shall not order the Secretary of State to issue a restricted license to the
person.
         (c)   For a conviction under division (A)(4) of this section:
            1.   If the court finds that the convicted person has no prior
conviction within seven years for a violation of division (A)(1), (3), or (4)
of this section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code, or former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of
another state substantially corresponding to division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of
this section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code, or former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, the court
shall order the Secretary of State to suspend the operator's or chauffeur's
license of the person for not less than 30 days or more than 90 days. The court
may order the Secretary of State to issue to the person a restricted license
during all or a specified portion of the suspension.
            2.   If the court finds that the person has one or more prior
convictions within seven years for a violation of division (A)(1), (3) or (4)
of this section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code, or former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of
another state substantially corresponding to division (A)(1), (3) or (4) of
this section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code, or former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, the court
shall order the Secretary of State to suspend the operator's or chauffeur's
license of the person for not less than 90 days or more than one year. The
court may order the Secretary of State to issue to the person a restricted
license during all or any portion of the suspension, except that a restricted
license shall not be issued during the first 90 days of the suspension.
      (7)   A restricted license issued pursuant to an order under division (C)
(6) of this section shall permit the person to whom it is issued to drive under
one or more of the following circumstances:
         (a)   To and from the person's residence and work location.
         (b)   In the course of the person's employment or occupation.
         (c)   To and from the person's residence and an alcohol or drug
education or treatment program as ordered by the court.
         (d)   To and from the person's residence and the court probation
department or a court-ordered community service program, or both.
         (e)   To and from the person's residence and an educational
institution at which the person is enrolled as a student.
         (f)   To and from the person's residence or work location and a place
of regularly occurring medical treatment for a serious condition for the person
or a member of the person's household or immediate family.
      (8)   The court may order that the restricted license issued pursuant to
division (C)(6) of this section include the requirement that the person shall
not operate a motor vehicle unless the vehicle is equipped with a functioning
ignition interlock device. The device shall be set to render the motor vehicle
inoperable if the device detects an alcohol content of 0.02 grams or more per
210 liters of breath of the person who offers a breath sample. The court may
order installation of an ignition interlock device on any motor vehicle that
the person owns or operates, the costs of which the person whose license is
restricted shall bear.
      (9)   The court shall not order the Secretary of State under division (C)
(6) of this section to issue a restricted license that would permit a person to
operate a commercial motor vehicle that hauls hazardous materials.
      (10)   The court shall not order the Secretary of State to issue a
restricted license unless the person states under oath, and the court finds
pursuant to testimony taken in open court or pursuant to statements contained
in a sworn affidavit on a form prescribed by the state court administrator,
that both of the following are true:
         (a)   The person needs vehicular transportation to and from his or her
work location, place of alcohol or drug education treatment, court probation
department, court-ordered community service program, or educational
institution, or a place of regularly occurring medical treatment for a serious
condition, or in the course of the person's employment or occupation.
         (b)   The person is unable to take public transportation and does not
have any family members or other individuals able to provide transportation to
a destination or for a purpose described in division (C)(10)(a) of this
section.
      (11)   The court order issued under division (C)(6) of this section and
the restricted license shall indicate the permitted destinations of the person
or the permitted purposes for which the person may operate a vehicle, the
approved route or routes if specified by the court, and permitted times of
travel.
      (12)   Immediately upon acceptance by the court of a plea of guilty or
nolo contenders or upon entry of a verdict of guilty for a violation of
division (A)(1), (3) or (4) of this section, the person shall surrender to the
court his or her operator's or chauffeur's license or permit. The court shall
immediately destroy the license or permit and forward an abstract of conviction
with court-ordered license sanctions to the Secretary of State. Upon receipt
of, and pursuant to, the abstract of conviction with court-ordered license
sanctions, the Secretary of State shall suspend or revoke the person's license
and, if ordered by the court and the person is otherwise eligible for a
license, issue to the person a restricted license stating the limited driving
privileges indicated on the abstract. If the judgment and sentence is appealed
to circuit court, the court may ex parte order the Secretary of State to stay
the suspension, revocation, or restricted license issued pursuant to this
division pending the outcome of the appeal.
      (13)   In addition to any other suspension or revocation ordered under
this division and as part of the sentence imposed upon a person who violates
division (A)(1) or (3) of this section while operating a commercial motor
vehicle, the court shall order the Secretary of State to suspend the vehicle
group designations on the person's operator's or chauffeur's license in
accordance with section 319b(1)(c) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code. If the
vehicle was transporting hazardous material required to have a placard pursuant
to 49 C.F.R. parts 100 to 199, the court shall order the Secretary of State to
suspend the vehicle group designations on the person's operator's or
chauffeur's license in accordance with section 319b(1)(d) of the Michigan
Uniform Traffic Code. The court shall not order the Secretary of State to issue
a restricted license that would permit the person to operate a commercial motor
vehicle.
      (14)   In addition to any other suspension or revocation ordered under
this division and as part of the sentence imposed upon a person who is
convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (3), or (4) of this section while
operating a commercial motor vehicle within ten years of a prior conviction,
the court shall order the Secretary of State to revoke the vehicle group
designations on the persons operator's or chauffeur's license in accordance
with section 319b(1)(e) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code. The court shall
not order the Secretary of State to issue a restricted license that would
permit the person to operate a commercial motor vehicle. As used in this
division, “prior conviction” means a conviction under division (A)(1) or (3) of
this section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code, or former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of
another state substantially corresponding to division (A)(1) or (4) of this
section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or
former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code involving the
operation of a commercial motor vehicle, or a conviction under division (I) of
this section, or a law of another state substantially corresponding to division
(I) of this section.
      (15)   As used in this division, “work location” means, as applicable,
the specific place or places of employment or the territory or territories
regularly visited by the person in pursuance of the person's occupation, or
both.
   (D)   Consent to chemical tests; persons not considered to have given
consent to withdrawal of blood; administration of tests.
      (1)   A person who operates a vehicle upon a public highway or other
place open to the general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles,
including an area designated for the parking of vehicles, within this city is
considered to have given consent to chemical tests of his or her blood, breath,
or urine for the purpose of determining the amount of alcohol or presence of a
controlled substance or both in his or her blood or urine or the amount of
alcohol in his or her breath in all of the following circumstances:
         (a)   If the person is arrested for a violation of divisions (A)(1),
(3), or (4), (B)(5), or (I) of this section.
      (2)   A person who is afflicted with hemophilia, diabetes, or a condition
requiring the use of an anticoagulant under the direction of a physician is not
considered to have given consent to the withdrawal of blood.
      (3)   The tests shall be administered as provided in division (B)(6) of
this section.
   (E)   Refusal to submit to chemical test; court order; report to Secretary
of State: form.
      (1)   If a person refuses the request of a peace officer to submit to a
chemical test offered pursuant to division (B)(6) of this section, a test shall
not be given without a court order, but the officer may seek to obtain the
court order.
      (2)   A written report shall immediately be forwarded to the Secretary of
State by the peace officer. The report shall state that the officer had
reasonable grounds to believe that the person had committed a crime described
in division (D)(1) of this section, and that the person had refused to submit
to the test upon the request of the peace officer and had been advised of the
consequences of the refusal. The form of the report shall be prescribed and
furnished by the Secretary of State.
   (F)   Refusal to submit to chemical test pursuant to division (E) of this
section; request for hearing: notice.
      (1)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test pursuant to
division (E) of this section, the peace officer shall immediately notify the
person in writing that within 14 days of the date of the notice the person may
request a hearing as provided in division (G) of this section. The form of the
notice shall be prescribed and furnished by the Secretary of State.
      (2)   The notice shall specifically state that failure to request a
hearing within 14 days will result in the suspension of the person's license or
permit to drive. The notice shall also state that there is not a requirement
that the person retain counsel for the hearing, though counsel would be
permitted to represent the person at the hearing.
   (G)   Effect of failure to request hearing; hearing procedure; notice;
authority of hearing officer; scope of hearing; finding; record; licensing
sanctions; judicial review; notice to motor vehicle administrator of another
state.
      (1)   If a person who refuses to submit to a chemical test pursuant to
division (E) of this section does not request a hearing within 14 days after
the date of notice pursuant to division (F) of this section, the Secretary of
State shall impose the following license sanctions:
         (a)   If the person was operating a vehicle other than a commercial
motor vehicle, suspend or deny the person's operator's or chauffeur's license
or permit to drive, or nonresident operating privilege, for six months or, for
a second or subsequent refusal within seven years, for one year. If the person
is a resident without a license or permit to operate a vehicle in the city, the
Secretary of State shall not issue the person a license or permit for six
months or, for a second or subsequent refusal within seven years, for one year.
         (b)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle, for the
first refusal, suspend all vehicle group designations on the person's
operator's or chauffeur's license or permit or nonresident privilege to operate
a commercial motor vehicle or, if the person is a resident without a license or
permit to operate a commercial motor vehicle in the city, not issue the person
an operator's or chauffeur's license with vehicle group designations, for one
year.
         (c)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle, for a
second or subsequent refusal that occurred in a separate incident from and
within ten years of a prior refusal, revoke all vehicle group designations on
the person's operator's or chauffeur's license or permit or nonresident
privilege to operate a commercial motor vehicle or, if the person is a resident
without a license or permit to operate a commercial motor vehicle in the city,
not issue the person an operator's or chauffeur's license with vehicle group
designations, for not less than ten years and until the person is approved for
the issuance of a vehicle group designation.
         (d)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle and was
arrested for an offense enumerated in division (D) of this section other than a
violation of divisions (B)(5) or (I) of this section, impose the license
sanction described in division (G)(1)(a) of this section and the license
sanction described in division (G)(1)(b) or (c) of this section, as applicable.
      (2)   If a hearing is requested, the Secretary of State shall hold the
hearing in the same manner and under the same conditions as provided in section
322 of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code. Not less than five days' notice of
the hearing shall be mailed to the person requesting the hearing, to the peace
officer who filed the report under division (E) of this section, and if the
prosecuting attorney requests receipt of the notice, to the prosecuting
attorney of the county where the arrest was made. The hearing officer may
administer oaths, issue subpoenas for the attendance of necessary witnesses,
and grant a reasonable request for an adjournment. Not more than one
adjournment shall be granted to a party and the length of an adjournment shall
not exceed 14 days. A hearing under this division (G)(2) of this section shall
be scheduled to be held within 45 days after the date of arrest for the
violation. The hearing officer shall not impose any sanction for a failure to
comply with these time limits.
      (3)   Except for delay attributable to the unavailability of the
defendant, a witness, or material evidence, or due to an interlocutory appeal
or exceptional circumstances, but not a delay caused by docket congestion, a
hearing shall be finally adjudicated within 77 days after the date of arrest.
The hearing officer shall not impose any sanction for a failure to comply with
this time limit.
      (4)   The hearing shall cover only the following issues:
         (a)   Whether the peace officer had reasonable grounds to believe that
the person had committed a crime described in division (D)(1) of this section.
         (b)   Whether the person was placed under arrest for a crime described
in division (D)(1) of this section.
         (c)   If the person refused to submit to the test upon the request of
the officer, whether the refusal was reasonable.
         (d)   Whether the person was advised of the rights under division (B)
(6) of this section.
      (5)   A person shall not order a hearing officer to make a particular
finding on any issue enumerated in division (G)(4)(a) to (d) of this section.
      (6)   The hearing officer shall make a record of a hearing held pursuant
to this division. The record shall be prepared and transcribed in accordance
with section 86 of the Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Act No. 306 of
the Public Acts of 1969, being M.C.L.A. § 24.286. Upon notification of the
filing of a petition for judicial review pursuant to section 323 of the
Michigan Uniform Traffic Code and not less than ten days before the matter is
set for review, the hearing officer shall transmit to the court in which the
petition was filed the original or a certified copy of the official record of
the proceedings. Proceedings at which evidence was presented need not be
transcribed and transmitted if the sole reason for review is to determine
whether the court will order the issuance of a restricted license. The parties
to the proceedings for judicial review may stipulate that the record be
shortened. A party unreasonably refusing to stipulate to a shortened record may
be taxed by the court in which the petition is filed for the additional costs.
The court may permit subsequent corrections to the record.
      (7)   If the person who requested a hearing does not prevail, the
Secretary of State shall impose the following license sanctions after the
hearing:
         (a)   If the person was operating a vehicle other than a commercial
motor vehicle, suspend or deny issuance of a license or driving permit or a
nonresident operating privilege of the person for six months or, for a second
or subsequent refusal within seven years, for one year. If the person is a
resident without a license or permit to operate a vehicle in the city, the
Secretary of State shall not issue the person a license or permit for six
months or, for a second or subsequent refusal within seven years, for one year.
The person may file a petition in the circuit court of the county in which the
arrest was made to review the suspension or denial as provided in section 323
of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code.
         (b)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle, impose
the sanction prescribed under division (G)(1)(b) or (c) of this section, as
applicable. The person may file a petition in the circuit court of the county
in which the arrest was made to review the suspension or denial as provided in
section 323 of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code.
         (c)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle and was
arrested for an offense enumerated in division (D) of this section other than a
violation of divisions (B)(5) or (I) of this section, impose the license
sanctions described in division (F)(7)(a) and (b) of this section.
      (8)   If the person who requested the hearing prevails, the peace officer
who filed the report under division (E) of this section may, with the consent
of the prosecuting attorney, file a petition in the circuit court of the county
in which the arrest was made to review the determination of the hearing officer
as provided in section 323 of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code.
      (9)   When it has been finally determined that a nonresident's privilege
to operate a vehicle in the city has been suspended or denied, the department
shall give notice in writing of the action taken to the motor vehicle
administrator of the state of the person's residence and of each state in which
he or she has a license to operate a motor vehicle.
   (H)   Duties of peace officer if person refuses chemical test or if test
reveals unlawful alcohol content, test results; duration of temporary license
or permit, “unlawful alcohol content” defined.
      (1)   If a person refuses a chemical test offered pursuant to division
(B)(6) of this section, or submits to the chemical test or a chemical test is
performed pursuant to a court order and the test reveals an unlawful alcohol
content, the peace officer who requested the person to submit to the test shall
do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Secretary of State, immediately confiscate the
person's license or permit to operate a motor vehicle and, if the person is
otherwise eligible for a license or permit, issue a temporary license or permit
to the person. The temporary license or permit shall be on a form provided by
the Secretary of State.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
immediately do all of the following:
            1.   Forward a copy of the written report of the person's refusal
to submit to a chemical test required under division (E) of this section to the
Secretary of State.
            2.   Notify the Secretary of State by means of the law enforcement
information network that a temporary license or permit was issued to the
person.
            3.   Destroy the person's driver's license or permit.
      (2)   If a person submits to a chemical test offered pursuant to division
(B)(6) of this section that requires an analysis of blood or urine and a report
of the results of that chemical test is not immediately available, the peace
officer who requested the person to submit to the test shall comply with
division (H)(1)(a) of this section pending receipt of the test report. If the
report reveals an unlawful alcohol content, the peace officer who requested the
person to submit to the test shall immediately comply with division (H)(1)(b)
of this section. If the report does not reveal an unlawful alcohol content, the
peace officer who requested the person to submit to the test shall immediately
notify the person of the test results and immediately return the person's
license or permit by first- class mail to the address given at the time of
arrest.
      (3)   A temporary license or permit issued under this division is valid
for one of the following time periods:
         (a)   If the case is not prosecuted, for 90 days after issuance or
until the person's license or permit is suspended pursuant to division (E) of
this section whichever occurs earlier. The prosecuting attorney shall notify
the Secretary of State if a case referred to the prosecuting attorney is not
prosecuted. The arresting law enforcement agency shall notify the Secretary of
State if a case is not referred to the prosecuting attorney for prosecution.
         (b)   If the case is prosecuted, until the criminal charges against
the person are dismissed, the person pleads guilty or nolo contenders to or is
found guilty of or acquitted of those charges, or the person's license or
permit is suspended pursuant to division (G) of this section, whichever occurs
earlier.
      (4)   As used in this division, “unlawful alcohol content” means any of
the following, as applicable:
         (a)   If the person tested is less than 21 years of age, 0.02 grams or
more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per
67 milliliters of urine.
         (b)   If the person tested was operating a commercial motor vehicle
within this city, 0.04 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood,
per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
         (c)   If the person tested is not a person described in division (H)
(4)(a) or (b) of this section, 0.10 grams or more of alcohol per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
   (I)   Operation of commercial motor vehicle by person with certain alcohol
content, arrest at time of accident; violation as misdemeanor; sentence: “prior
conviction” defined; attempted violation.
      (1)   A person, whether licensed or not, who has an alcohol content of
0.04 grams or more but not more than 0.07 per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210
liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine shall not operate a commercial
motor vehicle within this city.
      (2)   A peace officer may arrest a person without a warrant if the peace
officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person was, at the time of an
accident the driver of a commercial motor vehicle involved in the accident and
was operating the vehicle in violation of this division.
      (3)   A person who is convicted of a violation of this division is guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 90 days or a fine
of not more than $300, or both, together with costs of the prosecution. As part
of the sentence, the court shall order the Secretary of State to suspend the
vehicle group designations on the person's operator's or chauffeur's license
pursuant to section 319b(1)(c) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code or, if the
vehicle was carrying hazardous material required to have a placard pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 to 199, in accordance with section 319b(1)(d) of the
Michigan Uniform Traffic Code. The court shall not order the Secretary of State
to issue a restricted license that would permit the person to operate a
commercial motor vehicle.
      (4)   A person who violates this division within ten years of a prior
conviction may be sentenced to imprisonment for not more than one year or a
fine of not more than $1,000, or both. As part of the sentence, the court shall
order the Secretary of State to revoke the vehicle group designations on the
person's operator's or chauffeur's license pursuant to section 319b(1)(e) of
the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code. The court shall not order the Secretary of
State to issue a restricted license that would permit the person to operate a
commercial motor vehicle. As used in this division, “prior conviction” means a
conviction for a violation of this division, division (A)(1), (3), (4), or (5)
of this section, former section 5.15(1)or (2) of the Michigan Uniform Traffic
Code, or former section 5.15b of the Michigan Uniform Traffic Code, or a law of
another state substantially corresponding to this division, division (A)(1),
(3), (4), or (5) of this section, former section 5.15(1) or (2) of the Michigan
Uniform Traffic Code, or former section 5.15b of the Uniform Traffic Code,
while operating a commercial motor vehicle.
      (5)   When assessing points and taking license actions under this act,
the Secretary of State and the court shall treat a conviction for an attempted
violation of division (I)(1) of this section, or a law of another state
substantially corresponding to division (I)(1) of this section the same as if
the offense had been completed.
Ord. 8.1, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 9-1-92; Am. Ord. passed 8-20-96)
COST RECOVERY FOR DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE
§ 70.15 FINDINGS.
   The city finds that a significant number of traffic arrests and traffic
accidents in the city involve drive who were operating a motor vehicle while
under the influence of alcoholic beverages and/or a controlled substance. In
addition, the city finds that in the traffic accidents involving drivers who
were operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverage
and/or a controlled substance, there is a greater likelihood of a personal
injury and property damage. As a result of these determinations, a greater
operational and/or financial burden is placed upon the city police, public
service, firefighting and rescue services by persons who are operating motor
vehicles while under the influence of alcoholic beverages, and/or a controlled
substance.
(Ord. 8.1D, passed 10-21-92)
§ 70.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
      (1)   The providing, sending, and/or utilizing a public service, police,
firefighting and rescue services by the city to an accident involving a motor
vehicle where one or more of the drivers operating the motor vehicle while
under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance, or the
combined influence of an alcoholic beverage a controlled substance; or
      (2)   The making of a traffic stop and arrest by a police officer when
the driver was operating the motor vehicle while under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage or controlled substance.
   EXPENSE OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The cost associated with the occurrence of an
emergency response as set forth in the definition of “emergency response.” The
expenses of making an emergency  response, as set forth in division (2) of the
definition of “emergency response,” shall include the costs connected with the
administration, provision and analysis of chemical tests and the videotaping of
the driver, if applicable. These costs shall be set by City Commission by
resolution.
(Ord. 8.1D, passed 10-21-92)
§ 70.17 EXPENSES COVERED BY REIMBURSEMENT.
   The expenses for which reimbursement may be ordered under this section
include the following:
   (A)   The salary or wages, including overtime pay, of law enforcement
personnel for time spent responding to the incident from which conviction
arose, arresting the person convicted, processing the person after the arrest,
preparing reports on the incident, investigating the incident, and collecting
and analyzing evidence, including determining blood alcohol content and
determining the presence of and identifying controlled substances present in
the blood.
   (B)   The salaries, wages, or other compensation, including overtime pay, of
Fire Department and emergency medical service (EMS) personnel, including
volunteer firefighters or volunteer emergency medical service personnel, for
time spent in responding to and provide firefighting, and emergency medical
services in relation to the incident out of which the conviction arose.
   (C)   The cost of the medical supplies lost or expended by fire department
and emergency medical service personnel, including volunteer firefighters or
volunteer emergency medical service personnel, in providing services in
relation to the incident from which the conviction arose.
(Ord. 8.1D, passed 10-21-92)
§ 70.18 PRESUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person who, while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or
any controlled substance, or a combined influence of an alcoholic beverage and
a controlled substance, operates a motor vehicle, which operation results in an
emergency response, shall be responsible and/or liable for the expense of the
emergency response.
   (B)   For purposes of this subchapter, it shall be presumed that a person
who is operating a motor vehicle under the influence of an alcoholic beverage
if chemical analysis of the driver's blood, urine or breath indicates that the
amount of alcohol in the driver's blood at the time of the occurrence was in
excess of 0.07%.
(Ord. 8.1D, passed 10-21-92)
§ 70.19 INTERPRETATION.
   This subchapter shall be construed to be a responsibility and a liability of
a civil nature on the part of the driver and shall not be construed to
conflict, contravene, or enlarge or reduce any criminal liability or
responsibility, including fines imposed by a judge under the Uniform Traffic
Code on a driver for operating a motor vehicle under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage and/or controlled substance.
(Ord. 8.1D, passed 10-21-92)
§ 70.20 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The amount ordered to be paid under this section shall be paid to the
Clerk of the Court, who shall transmit the appropriate amount to the unit of
government named in this subchapter, being the City of Imlay City to receive
said reimbursement. If not otherwise provided by the Court, under this
subchapter, the reimbursement ordered under this section within a specified
period or specified installments.
   (B)   If the person is convicted under this subchapter is placed on
probation or paroled, any reimbursement order under this section shall become a
condition of that probation or paroled, any reimbursement order under this
section shall become a condition of that probation or parole. The court may
revoke probation and the Parole Board may revoke parole if the person fails to
comply with the order and if the person has not made a good faith effort to
comply with the order.
   (C)   The order for reimbursement under this subchapter shall be enforced by
the Prosecuting Attorney, or the City Attorney, with the city, named to receive
the reimbursement in the same manner as in a judgement in a civil action.
(Ord. 8.1D, passed 10-21-92)
§ 70.21 UNISON WITH RELATED REGULATIONS.
   This subchapter shall be construed in unison with drunk-driving regulations
set forth in the Uniform Traffic Code and any amendments thereto adopted in §
70.01.
(Ord. 8.1D, passed 10-21-92)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Violations Bureau
   
71.01   Established
   
71.02   Appointment of members
   
71.03   Violations not scheduled and not covered by bureau
   
71.04   Bureau to settle specific requests
   
71.05   Traffic tickets
   
71.06   Schedule of offenses and fines
PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 71.01 ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to Section 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, State of Michigan,
as added by Act No. 154 of the Public Acts of 1968, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8395 a
parking violations bureau, for the purpose of handling alleged parking
violations within the city, is hereby established. The Parking Violations
Bureau shall be under the supervision and control of the City Manager.
(Ord. 8.1a, passed 12-17-68)
§ 71.02 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The City Manager shall, subject to the approval of the City Commission,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint
qualified city employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation thereof.
(Ord. 8.1a, passed 12-17-68)
§ 71.03 VIOLATIONS NOT SCHEDULED AND NOT COVERED BY BUREAU.
   No violation not scheduled in §
71.06 shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau. The fact that a
particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged violator to
disposition of the violation at the Bureau and in any case the person in charge
of such Bureau may refuse to dispose of such violation in which case any person
having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any court
having jurisdiction of the offense as provided by law.
(Ord. 8.1a, passed 12-17-68)
§ 71.04 BUREAU TO SETTLE SPECIFIC REQUESTS.
   No violation may be settled at the parking violation bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have any such
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or in any way diminish the
rights, privileges and protection accorded to him by law.
(Ord. 8.1a, passed 12-17-68)
§ 71.05 TRAFFIC TICKETS.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket of notice of violation by a police officer
of the city shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation. The traffic
ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in which the
person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking Violations
Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours during
which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the offense
for which the ticket was issued and advise that a warrant for the arrest of the
person to whom the ticket was issued will be sought if a person fails to
respond within the time limited, and/or an additional penalty of $25 for
failure to answer the summons. After 60 days, the city may refer any
outstanding fees and/or costs to a collection agency for further action. Upon
accumulation of six or more unpaid citations, the city may impound the
violator's vehicle or seek revocation of his/her driver's license.
(Ord. 8.1a, passed 12-17-68; Am. Ord., passed 3-21-78; Am. Ord., passed 2-17-
98)
§ 71.06 SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND FINES.
   (A)   Uniform Traffic Code violations. Numbers in parentheses refer to
Uniform Traffic Code sections.
      (1)   Parking too far from curb (8.1, 8.2)   $10
      (2)   Angle parking violations (8.3)   $10
      (3)   Obstructing traffic (8.5)   $10
      (4)   Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary) (8.10)   $10
         (a)   On sidewalk   $10
         (b)   In front of drive   $10
         (c)   Within intersection   $10
         (d)   Within 15 feet of hydrant   $10
         (e)   On cross walk   $10
         (f)   Within 20 feet of cross walk or 15 feet of corner lot line   $10
         (g)   Within 30 feet of street side traffic sign or signal   $10
         (h)   Within 50 feet of railroad crossing   $10
         (i)   Within 20 feet of fire station entrance   $10
         (j)   Within 75 feet of fire station entrance on opposite side of
street (signs required)   $10
         (k)   Beside street excavation when traffic obstructed   $10
         (l)   Double parking   $10
         (m)   On bridge of viaduct or within tunnel   $10
         (n)   Within 200 feet of accident where police in attendance   $10
         (o)   In front of theater   $10
         (p)   Blocking emergency exit   $10
         (q)   Blocking fire escape   $10
      (5)   In prohibited zone (signs required) (8.10)   $10
      (6)   In alley (8.13)   $10
      (7)   Parking for prohibited purpose (8.14).   $10
         (a)   Displaying vehicle for sale   $10
         (b)   Working or repairing vehicle   $10
         (c)   Displaying advertising   $10
         (d)   Selling merchandise   $10
         (e)   Storage over 48 hours   $10
      (8)   Wrong side boulevard roadway (8.15)   $10
      (9)   Loading zone violation (8.16, 8.17)   $10
      (10)   Bus, parking other than bus stop (8.19)   $10
      (11)   Taxicab, parking other than cab stand (8.19)   $10
      (12)   Bus, taxicab stand violations (8.20)   $10
      (13)   Meter violations (8.21)   $10
      (14)   Meters, not parked within space (8.22)   $10
      (15)   Failure to set brakes (5.58)   $10
      (16)   Parked on grade wheels not turned to curb (5.88)   $10
      (17)   Bicycle parking violations (6.17)   $5
      (18)   Handicapped parking space use without proper permit   $50
   (B)   Repeat offense schedule.
Offense First Second Third and Subsequent
Offense                                    First Second Third and Subsequent
Abandoned vehicle (plus towing and storage $ 10  $ 20   $ 50
charge)
Disabled vehicle failure to move           10    20     50
Keys in vehicle or motor running           10    20     50
All night parking in prohibited zone       20    40     70
(2:30 a.m. - 6:00 a.m.)
Parking in:
   (a)   Prohibited zone             10    20     50
   (b)   Tow away zone               20    40     70
   (c)   Fire lane                   10    20     50
Between sidewalk and curb                  10    20     50
Private property without owner's consent   10    20     50
 
(Ord. 8.1a, adopted 12-17-68; Am. Ord., passed 2-17-98)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
96.   GARAGE SALES
      
97.   ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
98.   EMERGENCY RESPONSE: CITY EXPENSE RECOVERY
      
99.   TREES
      
100.   SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Purpose
   
90.04   Nuisance
   
90.05   Outdoor storage of vehicles
   
90.06   Outdoor storage in business or industrial zones
   
90.07   Permits
   
90.08   Construction
   
90.09   Semi-trailers, truck bodies, bus bodies, and mobile homes as structures
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Outdoor Storage of Dismantled,
Partially Dismantled or Inoperable Motor Vehicles or Parts Thereof” ordinance.
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-5-78)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISMANTLED AND PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES. A motor vehicle which is
dismantled in whole or in part and/or which is mechanically unable to operate
as the result of a mechanical defect or malfunction; the absence of minor and
nonessential parts such as antenna, ornaments, hubcaps, and the like, shall not
cause a vehicle to be deemed dismantled and thereby disabled.
   DWELLING. Any house, building, structure, tent, shelter, trailer or vehicle
or portion thereof which is occupied in while or in part as the home,
residence, living or sleeping place, or which is intended to be occupied by one
or more human beings, either permanently or transiently.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any wheeled vehicles which are self-propelled or intended to
be self-propelled; including but not limited to an engine that runs, four
wheels and four pneumatic tires capable of holding air, current license plates
and a working battery.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES. Motor vehicles which by reason of dismantling,
disrepair or other cause are incapable of being propelled under their own
power.
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-5-78; Am. Ord. passed 8-18-81)
§ 90.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Regulate the outdoor storage of dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicles in certain areas in the city;
   (B)   Provide for the issuance of permits; and
   (C)   Provide penalties for the violation thereof.
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am Ord. passed 7-5-78)
§ 90.04 NUISANCE.
   The presence of a dismantled, partially dismantled or inoperable motor
vehicle or parts of a motor vehicle on any platted or unplatted parcel of land
in violation of the terms of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-5-78) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 OUTDOOR STORAGE OF VEHICLES.
   It is declared to be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to store
on, place on or permit to be stored or placed on or allowed to remain on any
platted or unplatted parcel of land a dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicle or any parts of a motor vehicle, unless the parts are
determined by the city to be used for recreation, or ornamental purpose, which
platted or unplatted parcel of land is located in the R-1, R-2, R-T, or RM
Residential Zones, under the terms and provisions of the Zoning Ordinance of
the city (see
Chapter 155, Appendix), as now or hereafter amended, or upon which parcel of
land there is a structure used in whole or in part as a dwelling, unless said
partially dismantled motor vehicle or parts of a motor vehicle shall be kept in
a wholly enclosed garage or other wholly enclosed structure: Provided, however,
that any bona fide owner, co-owner, tenant, or co-tenant, may store, permit to
be stored or allow to remain on the premises of which he is the owner, co-
owner, tenant or co-tenant, any one such dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicle, for a period of not to exceed for 48 hours, further
that any such owner, co-owner, tenant or co-tenant may, in the event of
hardship, upon payment of the fee hereinafter provided, secure a permit from
the City Clerk to extend such period of 48 hours for an additional period of
not to exceed one week for any one such dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicle if such motor vehicle is registered in his, her, or
its name; provided further, this chapter shall not be construed to permit
parking or placing of dismantled or partially dismantled vehicles on any street
area in the city or in any front yard, as now or hereafter defined by the
Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-5-78) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 OUTDOOR STORAGE IN BUSINESS OR INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   All vehicles stored in accordance with this section must be stored in
completely enclosed buildings or behind fences at least seven feet high so
arranged as to keep the disabled vehicle from the view of persons on public
streets or rights-of-way.
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-5-78) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 PERMITS.
   Upon application duly made and upon showing of hardship, the City Clerk is
authorized to issue the permits provided for in §
90.03. A fee of $10 for each such permit issued shall be collected and shall be
paid into the General Fund.
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-5-78; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-87)
§ 90.08 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall not be construed as repealing any provision of this code
or other ordinance of the city now in effect or hereafter made effective
relating to rubbish, litter, garbage, refuse, trash, or junk, but shall be
construed as supplementary to any such code provision or ordinance as well as
to any statutes of the state relating thereto.
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-5-78)
§ 90.09 SEMI-TRAILERS, TRUCK BODIES, BUS BODIES, AND MOBILE HOMES AS
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Prohibition. No semi-trailers, truck bodies, bus bodies, mobile homes
or similar units shall be used as accessory structures, temporary dwellings, or
storage units within the city. This section does not prohibit the use of a
mobile home for a residence in areas zoned for that purpose nor does it
prohibit the parking of licensed vehicles or trailers so long as said units are
used for transportation purposes only.
   (B)   Nuisance. The presence of a dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicle, parts of a motor vehicle, or prohibited semi-trailer,
truck body, bus body or mobile home on any land in violation of the terms of
this section is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 12-21-99)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 8.10, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 7-5-78; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
91.01   Harboring or keeping a dog
   
91.02   Dogs at large
   
91.03   Barking
   
91.04   Chasing or biting
   
91.05   Prima facie violations
   
91.06   Collection fee
   
91.07   Enforcement
   
91.08   Violation; notice
   
91.10   Kennel license requirements
   
91.11   Sanitary requirements
Cats
   
91.20   Unlawful possession of cats
   
91.21   Cats at large
   
91.22   License required
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisance animals, see §
95.07
   Pets in city parks, see §
92.05
DOGS
§ 91.01 HARBORING OR KEEPING A DOG.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firm or corporation having a right of property in
a dog, and every person, persons, firm or corporation who keeps or harbors a
dog or has it in his care, and every person, persons, firm or corporation who
permits a dog on or about any premises occupied by him shall be considered as
harboring or keeping the same within the meaning of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall keep or harbor more than three dogs of the age of six
months or over at said premises except where a person has obtained a kennel
license in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed 12-4-84; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
94)
§ 91.02 DOGS AT LARGE.
   No person, persons, firm or corporation shall allow or permit any dog to run
at large within the corporate limits of the city, unless accompanied by the
owner or keeper thereof.
(Ord. 8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed 12-4-84)
§ 91.03 BARKING.
   No person, persons, firm or corporation shall harbor or keep any dog within
the corporate limits of the city which by loud and/or frequent and/or habitual
barking, yelping and/or howling shall cause serious annoyance to the neighbors
or neighborhood or to pedestrians or motorists who are lawfully within hearing
distance of said dog.
(Ord. 8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12B, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed
12-4-84)
§ 91.04 CHASING OR BITING.
   No person, persons, firm or corporation shall harbor or keep any dog within
the corporate limits of the city that causes serious annoyance to the neighbors
or neighborhood or to pedestrians or motorists by barking, chasing or biting
said persons, or following them in a threatening manner.
(Ord. 8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12B, passed 4-19-83; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed
12-4-84)
§ 91.05 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A finding of the existence of a prima facie violation of §§
91.03 or
91.04 shall be made when the barking, yelping and/or howling of any dog is
clearly audible to any person or persons located one or more city blocks from
the location of the dog.
   (B)   In addition to division (A), a finding of the existence of a prima
facie violation of §§
91.03 or
91.04 shall also be made when two or more complaints of a violation of this
chapter by the barking, yelping and/or howling of any one dog are made within a
ten-day period. Such complaints must be made by more than one household.
(Ord. 8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed 12-4-84)
§ 91.06 COLLECTION FEE.
   For all dogs claimed by the owner, a collection fee of $5 shall be collected
in addition to the required fee under §
91.08.
(Ord. 8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed 12-4-84)
§ 91.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Officers of Lapeer County Animal Control Department are authorized to
enforce §§
91.08 and
91.99 and are designated as authorized city officials to issue municipal civil
infraction citations (directing alleged violators to appear in court) or
municipal civil infraction violation notices (directing alleged violators to
appear at the Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau) as provided in Chapter 35
of this code.
(Ord. 8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed 12-4-84; Am. Ord. 8.20, passed
3-21-95)
§ 91.08 VIOLATION; NOTICE.
   In addition to the penalty set forth in §
91.99(A), if any dog shall be found running at large within the corporate
limits of the city in violation of §
91.02, the dog shall be taken into custody by the city police officer or other
law enforcement officer or any other person authorized by the City Commission
by resolution to carry out the terms of §§
91.01 through
91.07. If the dog bears no identification by appropriate tag attached to the
collar of the dog, the dog shall be impounded for four days and if not claimed
within this period it shall be killed, sold, or otherwise disposed of. Should
the dog bear an appropriate identification tag on its collar, the owner of such
tag shall be notified forthwith, either personally or by notice to the
residence of the owner, by first class United States Mail, postage fully
prepaid, and the owner shall pay $5 for each day that the dog is in custody to
the City Clerk and upon such payment the dog shall be released to the owner. If
such payment is not made, the dog shall be sold, killed, or otherwise disposed
of. Any dog not claimed within ten days of service of the aforesaid notice
shall be sold, killed, or otherwise disposed of. Service is complete when
notice is mailed or personally served.
(Ord. 8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed 12-4-84)
§ 91.09 KENNEL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A kennel license shall be required for owners of four up to nine dogs.
Upon request to and approval by the city, a kennel license shall be obtained
from the Lapeer County Animal Shelter in accordance with all applicable state
regulations. All owners requiring a kennel license shall be subject to a local
inspection and fee schedule as established by resolution of the City Commission
and amended from time to time as may be necessary.
   (B)   For owners of ten or more dogs, in addition to the restrictions of
division (A), it shall be a requirement that a minimum lot size of one acre be
provided.
(Ord. passed 10-18-94)
§ 91.10 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person being the owner of, in possession of, or having control of any
dog, shall keep the yard, pen, shelter or building provided and maintained for
the confinement of such dog or used for the housing of such dog, clean by
removing from the premises all manure and waste matter from which odors may
arise or may act as vermin harborage.
(Ord. passed 10-18-94)
CATS
§ 91.20 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF CATS.
   It shall be unlawful to own, possess, shelter, harbor, keep, or have custody
of more than three cats, which are over six months old, on the same premises
except in any commercial animal establishment, animal shelter, or veterinary
hospital or clinic.
(Ord. 8.12D, passed - - )
§ 91.21 CATS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow their cat to run at large
within the city. If any cat shall be found running at large within the
corporate limits of the city in violation of this subchapter it shall be taken
into custody by any city police officer, or other law enforcement officer or
any other person authorized by the City Commission by resolution to carry out
the terms of this subchapter. The cat shall be impounded for four days. Cats
may be claimed within the four-day period after a collection fee has been paid
for each cat. If not claimed within this period, the cat shall be sold or
otherwise disposed of.
(Ord. 8.12D, passed - - )
§ 91.22 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having custody of any permitted cat
over six months of age within the city shall obtain a license for each such cat
provided herein:
   (A)   Application for a license shall be made to the City Treasurer and
shall state the name and address of the applicant and the last known owner of
the cat. It shall also include the breed, sex, age, color, and unique or
distinctive markings of each cat and a certificate by a licensed veterinarian
showing that the cat has been vaccinated against rabies and distemper.
Application may be made by mail on forms provided by the city.
   (B)   Application for a license shall be made within five days after
obtaining a cat over six months of age, except that this requirement shall not
apply to a non-resident keeping a cat within the municipality for no longer
than 30 days.
   (C)   Each license shall expire on July 1 at 12:00 midnight. The fee shall
be as established from time to time by resolution of the City Commission. If
application for renewal of the license is not made before July 1, the applicant
shall pay a penalty, as established from time to time by resolution of the City
Commission.
   (D)   Upon acceptance of the license application, payment of the fee, and
compliance with all relevant requirements of this subchapter, the Imlay City
Treasurer shall issue a durable tag or identification collar stamped with an
identifying number and year of issuance.
   (E)   Cats must wear valid license tags or identification collars at all
times when outside a building or residence or otherwise outdoors.
   (F)   A duplicate license may be obtained upon payment of a replacement fee,
as established from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
   (G)   No person may use the license for any cat other than the cat for which
it was issued.
(Ord. 8.12D, passed - - )
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
      Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of
a civil fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each
infraction. Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased
fines as provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord.8.12, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 8.12C, passed 12-4-84; Am. Ord. 8.12D, passed
- - ; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Vandalism in city parks
   
92.03   Alcoholic beverages
   
92.04   Advertising
   
92.05   Pets
   
92.06   Garbage
   
92.07   Planting vegetation
   
92.08   Motor vehicles
   
92.09   Passengers on motor vehicles
   
92.10   Park hours
   
92.11   Fires
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
92.25   Creation
   
92.26   Membership
   
92.27   Term of office
   
92.28   Powers and duties
   
92.29   Appointment of personnel
   
92.30   Finance
   
92.31   Grounds for removal
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK. Any land owned or leased by the city used for municipal park purposes.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.02 VANDALISM IN CITY PARKS.
   No person shall pick or mutilate any flowers, wild, or domestic, or
intentionally disturb any tree, shrub, or other plant material. Further, it
shall be unlawful for any person to damage or otherwise injure or deface any
sign, memorial, building, or other fixture of any city park. It shall further
be unlawful to stand or sit on top of any memorial of the city park.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 11-21-78; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.03 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No person shall possess, transport, or consume any alcoholic beverages
except under one of the following conditions:
   (A)   By permit issued by the Michigan State Liquor Control Commission; or
   (B)   By permit issued by the city for a private, not for profit, gathering.
Application for the permit shall be filed at least one week before the date of
the gathering on a form to be approved by the City Manager. The applicant shall
be responsible for posting the permit in a conspicuous place at the gathering
and for the maintenance of order at the gathering and no such alcoholic
beverage may be bought or sold at the gathering. Issuance of a permit to an
applicant does not relieve the applicant or any other person or organization of
the obligation to comply with all applicable state laws and local laws. The
application may be denied if, in the opinion of the City Manager and the Public
Safety Director, that the gathering:
      (1)   Will present a clear danger to the safety of the residents of the
city.
      (2)   Will be so large as to render the enforcement of the applicable
state and local laws impossible.
   (C)   An applicant who is denied a permit under this section may appeal the
action directly to the City Commission.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 11-21-78; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.04 ADVERTISING.
   No person shall advertise by any means or method without the consent of the
city.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.05 PETS.
   No person shall permit a dog, cat, or any small domestic animal to enter or
remain in the park unless the animal is properly restrained by a leash.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 91
§ 92.06 GARBAGE.
   No person shall throw, discard, or leave any papers, litter, garbage, or
rubbish unless the same is deposited in containers furnished by the city for
this purpose.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.07 PLANTING VEGETATION.
   No person shall plant trees, flowers, weeds, or vegetables without the
consent of the city.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.08 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle as defined in Section 1.017 of the
Uniform Traffic Code of July, 1976.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.09 PASSENGERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate or ride as a passenger on any motorcycle, motorbike,
minibike, go-cart, snowmobile, or any other motorized vehicle, except in those
areas expressly designated for these vehicles by the city.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.10 PARK HOURS.
   No person shall remain in, use, or occupy any portion of any park between
the hours set forth below unless he or she is part of an identifiable group of
persons which has received prior written approval of the city to so remain in,
use, or occupy a portion of a park for a specified period of time between the
hours set forth herein:
   (A)   Veterans Park. 10:30 p.m. – 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   All other parks. 10:30 p.m. – 6:00 a.m. (Or such other hours and/or
rules as promulgated by the City Manager.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 11-21-78; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
§ 92.11 FIRES.
   No person shall start a fire except in such places provided for that purpose
by the city; and all fires shall be put out by the persons starting the same
before leaving the immediate vicinity of the fire.
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92)
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 92.25 CREATION.
   A commission is hereby created to be known as the Parks and Recreation
Commission.
(Ord. 16.5, passed 12-17-85)
§ 92.26 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall consist of seven members, all of
whom shall be appointed by the City Commission by a majority vote of the
members elect thereof.
(Ord. 16.5, passed 12-17-85)
§ 92.27 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of four members of said Commission shall initially be for
a term expiring June 30, 1988; and the term of office of three members shall be
for a term expiring June 30, 1989. Thereafter, all terms shall be for a period
of two years.
(Ord. 16.5, passed 12-17-85)
§ 92.28 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall plan, conduct, supervise and
maintain public play fields, athletic fields, recreation centers and other
recreation facilities and activities with the consent of the owners and
authorities thereof. It shall have the power to conduct any form of recreation
or cultural activity that will employ the leisure time of the people in a
constructive and wholesome manner. Also, this Commission shall encourage
developers, absentee owners, homeowners, tenants and businessmen to accept
basic responsibilities for preserving and enhancing the beauty of private and
public places. It shall encourage the placing, planting and preservation of
trees, flowers and shrubbery and sponsor and promote Arbor Day. And, the
Commission shall sponsor a program of general improvement of the appearance of
all properties in the city.
(Ord. 16.5, passed 12-17-85; Am. Ord. passed 9-3-96)
§ 92.29 APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL.
   The Commission may recommend appointment of personnel necessary to carry out
its programs, provided, provision is made therefor in the recreation budget.
(Ord. 16.5, passed 12-17-85)
§ 92.30 FINANCE.
   Annually, the Parks and Recreation Commission shall submit a recommended
budget to the City Commission for its approval. The budget shall be submitted
not later than February 1 of each year.
(Ord. 16.5, passed 12-17-85)
§ 92.31 GROUNDS FOR REMOVAL.
   Any member who misses three consecutive regular meetings, or 25% of such
meetings in any calendar year, unless such absence shall be excused by the
Commission, shall be deemed to have vacated his office, and the Commission may
declare said office vacant. Upon such office being declared vacant, the City
Commission shall appoint a new member to fill such vacancy for the unexpired
term.
(Ord. 16.5, passed 12-17-85)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   .
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 8.2a, passed 9-20-77; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-
21-95)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
   
93.01   Hazards and nuisances
§ 93.01 HAZARDS AND NUISANCES.
   When any lot, building, or structure within the city, because of the
accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontrolled growing of weeds, or age or
dilapidation, or because of any other condition or happening, becomes, in the
opinion of the City Commission, a public hazard or nuisance which is dangerous
to the health or safety of the inhabitants of the city of those of them
residing or habitually going near much lot, building, or structure, the City
Commission may, after investigation, give notice to the owner of the land upon
which such hazard or nuisance exists, or the owner of the building or structure
itself, specifying the nature of the hazard or nuisance, and requiring such
owner to alter, repair, tear down, or remove same promptly and within a time to
be specified by the City Commission, which shall be commensurate with the
nature of the hazard or nuisance. If, at the expiration of the time limit in
the notice, the owner has not complied with the requirements thereof, or in any
case where the owner of the land or of the building or structure itself is not
known, the City Commission may order such a hazard or nuisance abated by the
proper department or agency of the city which is qualified to do the work
required, and the costs of such abatement, assessed against the lot, premises
or description of real property upon which said hazard or nuisance was located.
(Ord. 13.1A, passed 8-31-79)
Cross-reference:
   Property condition as nuisance, see §
95.08
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
94.01   Combustible materials
   
94.02   Burning in downtown area
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   No person or persons shall make any fire in any street, lane, or alley, or
private or public property, within 20 feet of any building, fence, wood pile,
or other combustible material in the city, and if any fire shall be made, it
shall be attended by at least one person continuously during the burning of the
fire, who shall have sufficient ability to extinguish the same upon his own
initiative, or by the request of the city; and no person or persons shall
deposit or leave any ashes within 20 feet of any building, fence, wood pile, or
other combustible material within the limits of the city, unless the same be
deposited or left in an iron or other safe repository from fire.
(Ord. 9.2, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 2-1-83) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 BURNING IN DOWNTOWN AREA.
   There shall be no outside burning allowed in the downtown commercial area
described as those businesses that front on Third Street, Bancroft Street, and
Almont Avenue from Main Street to Caulkins Street, and Fourth Street to the
Grand Trunk Railroad tracks. This shall, also, include the north side of E.
Second Street from S. Almont Avenue east to S. Cedar Street.
(Ord. 9.2, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 2-1-83) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 9.2, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 2-9-83; Am. Ord. 8.20, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Burning of materials
   
95.02   Noise, interference and property appearance
   
95.03   Posted materials
   
95.04   Rubbish
   
95.05   Dead animals
   
95.06   Offensive materials
   
95.07   Animals
   
95.08   Property condition; exceptions
   
95.09   Hazardous materials
   
95.10   Injuries to persons or property
   
95.11   Abatement procedures
   
95.12   Administrative fee
   
95.13   Notice of violation
   
95.14   Failure to obey notice
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 BURNING OF MATERIALS.
   No person shall burn any garbage, refuse, hides, feathers, or other organic
or animal matter within the city limits.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 94
   Fire Wardens, see §§
30.01 et seq.
§ 95.02 NOISE, INTERFERENCE AND PROPERTY APPEARANCE.
   (A)   No persons shall operate or maintain any machine, device, apparatus,
or instrument between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. which shall cause
reasonable preventable electrical interference with the operation of any radio
or television receiving set.
   (B)   No person shall make any unnecessary loud or unusual noise which
annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of the
public; nor shall any person play or operate any musical instrument,
phonograph, radio, or television in such a manner as to cause loud or unusual
sound or noise between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; nor shall any
person place in their front yard any satellite signal receiving device, nor
shall such device be placed in a side yard which interferes with access to the
rear yard; nor shall such device be placed in a side yard if that side yard
fronts on a public street. The City Commission may issue a special permit to
any nonprofit organization for the purpose of extending the time limits set
forth herein for a community wide event. The permit shall only extend the
period of time to a maximum of 12:01 a.m., and shall only be passed for a two
day period. Further, an application for the extension shall be made pursuant to
rules and regulations to be approved by the City Manager.
   (C)   Not withstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no person
operating or in control of a parked or moving vehicle (including motorcycles
and mopeds) shall operate or permit the operation of an electronically
amplified sound system in or on the vehicle so as to produce sound that is
clearly audible more than 50 feet from the vehicle.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-96)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 POSTED MATERIALS.
   No person shall attach, post, or paint any sign, advertisement, or other
written or printed matter or any picture or device upon any lamp post, electric
light, or telephone pole, or public property located within any public street,
alley, or other public place within the city.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 RUBBISH.
   No person shall throw, scatter, or deposit any posters, handbills, cards, or
other written or printed matter or any waste paper or any bottles, or cans, or
debris of any type in any public street or alley or public place; nor shall any
person leave or deposit the same on any private property in such a manner as to
permit them to be blown onto any street, alley, or other public place. A person
may deposit leaves on the edge of the roadway for pick up by the City D.P.W.
under rules promulgated by the City Manager.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Garbage collection, see
Ch. 50
§ 95.05 DEAD ANIMALS.
   No person shall deposit, place or throw any dead or sick or injured animal
or part thereof, or any garbage, rubbish, or other animal or organic matter
into any reservoir or upon the banks of any stream, lake, pond, sewer or well,
or upon any street or alley within the city.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 91
   Garbage collection, see
Ch. 50
§ 95.06 OFFENSIVE MATERIALS.
   No person shall permit or allow any manure, offal, rubbish, rubble, refuse,
junk, or waste paper to collect or lie upon any property owned or occupied by
him in such a manner as to attract flies, vermin, or rodents, or as to emit
offensive or unhealthy odors or so as to permit it to be scattered on adjoining
lands by the wind.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross Reference:
   Garbage collection, see
Ch. 50
§ 95.07 ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep any horses, cattle, sheep, swine, goats, mules,
or other livestock or fowl within the corporate city limits of the city, except
where such animals are kept or displayed in the regular course of conducting an
agricultural fair and races connected therewith.
   (B)   No person shall keep any doves or pigeons which shall damage buildings
or other property by depositing excreta thereon.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 91
§ 95.08 PROPERTY CONDITION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following conditions are subject to the requirements of divisions
(B) and (C) of this section.
      (1)   Trees, shrubs, bushes, weeds, or other plant growths obstructing a
sidewalk, walkway, driveway, street, or other public way.
      (2)   Weeds, grasses, or other plant growth which endanger public
property or the health or safety of the public; interfere with or obstruct or
render dangerous any public way including but not limited to:
         (a)   Ragweed.
         (b)   Poison ivy.
         (c)   Poison sumac.
         (d)   Poison oak.
         (e)   Canada thistle.
      (3)   Cutting of Weeds and Grass. It shall be unlawful for any land
owner, occupant or person in possession of any lot or parcel along any improved
street, public right-of-way, or adjacent to any public or private improved
property, to fail to cut all grass, weeds, brush or undergrowth to a depth of
200 feet or the depth of the parcel, whichever is less, to a height of 8 inches
on said lot or parcel, after having received a written notice from the city,
delivered personally or by U.S. Mail, giving 10 days from the date of the
notice to mow said lot or parcel. If the person who receives such notice fails
to cut the grass or weeds within the 10-day period, the city may authorize a
city employee or contractor to enter upon the property and to do the necessary
cutting. All expenses incurred in connection with such work shall be paid by
the owner of the property.
      (4)   Dead trees which endanger public property or the health or safety
of the public.
      (5)   (a)   The outside storage or accumulation of junk trash, rubbish,
or refuse of any kind, age, or dilapidation, or any other condition or
happening to any lot, building, or structure thus becoming a public hazard or
nuisance or other blighted condition. The term JUNK shall include parts of
machinery or motor vehicles, unused stoves, or other appliances stored in the
open, containers, tin cans, metal remnants, castoff materials, discarded
building materials, whether or not the same could be put to any reasonable use.
The term GARBAGE or REFUSE shall include food waste matter and discarded food
containers as well as other household refuse. The existence of any vacant
building, including, but not limited to, garages or other outbuildings unless
such buildings are kept securely locked, window kept glazed or neatly boarded
up, and otherwise protected to prevent entrance thereto by vandals shall be
deemed a nuisance.
         (b)   The existence of any incomplete structure unless such structure
is in the course of construction in accordance with a valid and subsisting
building permit issued by the city and unless such construction is completed
within a reasonable time.
         (c)   The outside storage upon any residential property of building
materials unless there is in force a valid building permit issued by the city
for construction upon said property and the building materials are intended for
use in connection with the construction. Buildings materials shall include but
shall not be limited to lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or
cement, nails, screws, or any other materials used in constructing any
structure.
         (d)   The outside storage, including storage on open porches, of any
appliances. Appliances include but are not limited to stoves, refrigerators,
freezers, soft drink machines and other appliances. This subsection shall not
apply to operable vending machines located in a commercial zoning district.
      (6)   The roots of trees which are causing damage to any public sewer,
sidewalk, pavement, or other public property, nor shall any person set out or
plant any tree in the public street or any portion thereof, including the “tree
lawn” without a permit from the City Manager.
   (B)   Exceptions. A property owner shall maintain all property occupied or
vacant, improved or unimproved, free of the nuisance described in divisions (A)
through (C) of this section, except that grass, weeds, brush and undergrowth
higher than 12 inches are permitted in the following locations:
      (1)   On portions of undeveloped property behind a wooded tree line.
      (2)   On nature trails or natural areas operated by governmental or non-
profit corporations for the benefit of the public.
   (C)   Responsibility. A property owner shall also be responsible for
maintaining, free of the nuisances described in this section, all public ways
abutting his own property as follows:
      (1)   The city right-of-way on either side of a public street including,
but not limited to, any sidewalk, walkway, or driveway located therein.
      (2)   Public or utility easements to the centerline.
      (3)   Alleys to the centerline.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-97;
Am. Ord. passed 4- 18-00; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-02; Am. Ord. passed 7-3-07)
Penalty, see §
95.99
Cross-reference:
   Code enforcement of blight conditions, see §
33.03
   Hazard and nuisance lots, buildings and the like, see §
93.01
   Unsafe buildings, see §§
150.65 et seq.
§ 95.09 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to enable the city to require
reimbursement from those responsible for the leaking, spilling, releasing, or
otherwise allowing certain hazardous materials to escape containment, and which
are then cleaned up and/or disposed of by the city or its agents.
   (B)   Hazardous materials. Hazardous materials are defined as any substance
which if spilled, leaked, or otherwise released from its container, is
dangerous or harmful to the environment or human or animal life, health, or
safety, or otherwise constitutes a danger or threat to the public health,
safety or welfare. Hazardous materials shall include, but not be limited to,
such substances as chemicals and gases, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum, or petroleum based products, poisons, biologic agents, flammables,
combustibles, hazardous wastes or corrosives. The Director of Public Safety, or
the director's designee, shall have reasonable discretion to determine whether
any particular substance constitutes a hazardous material.
   (C)   Duty to contain remove and clean up. It shall be the duty of any
person or entity which directly or indirectly causes, contributes to, or allows
the release including spilling, leaking, emitting, discharging, escaping, or
any other dissemination, of hazardous materials to immediately contain, remove
and clean up the area of such release in such manner that the area involved is
fully restored to its condition before such release occurred. The city shall
have no duty to contain, clean up or dispose of any such release but in
emergency situations the Director of Public Safety, or the directors designee,
shall have the authority to take whatever action is reasonably necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the general public including
providing for or arranging for the containment removal or clean up of any
hazardous materials.
   (D)   Failure to remove and clean up. Any person or entity failing to comply
with division (C) hereof, where the city has acted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the general public, shall be liable to and shall pay the
city for its costs and expenses, including the costs incurred by the city to
any party which it engages, for the complete containment and/or clean up of the
hazardous material in any area affected by the hazardous material. Costs
incurred by the city shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Actual labor costs of city personnel, including workers
compensation benefits, fringe benefits administrative overhead;
      (2)   Cost of equipment operation and of materials obtained directly by
the city; and
      (3)   Cost of any contract labor and materials, including costs of any
consultants or expert advisers.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 INJURIES TO PERSONS OR PROPERTY.
   (A)   Actions for injuries to persons or property resulting from or alleged
to have resulted from a property owners failure to comply with the applicable
provisions of this chapter shall be brought directly against the property
owner.
   (B)   The failure of a property owner to receive the notice provided for in
§
95.13 shall not be a defense to any action brought for injury to persons or
property.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Manager and his subordinates, the Health Officer, the Chief
of Police and his subordinates are hereby authorized and empowered to abate or
destroy any public nuisance in any manner allowed or permitted by law, and in
addition, the continuance of any such nuisance may be enjoined at the suit of
the city by any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any expense incurred by the city in the abatement or removal of any
nuisance as a result of the failure of any person, firm, or corporation causing
same to wholly abate or remove such nuisance within the time stated, shall be
charged against the lot or premises upon which the nuisance was maintained and
from which it was removed as a special assessment and shall become a lien
against such lot or premises at the same time and of the same character and
effect, and collectible in the same manner as provided in the Special
Assessment Procedures, §§ 33.15 et seq.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   An administrative fee consistent with the city's fee schedule shall be added
to any costs charged by the city to the property owner wherever the city abates
a nuisance under this subchapter.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.13 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   In the event that a property owner fails to comply with the applicable
provisions of this chapter, the city is authorized and empowered, but shall
have no obligation, to notify the property owner of the violation and to direct
the property owner to remove the nuisance. Such notice shall be in writing,
addressed to the property owner as appears on the latest ad valorem property
tax assessment roll and shall inform the property owner:
   (A)   Of the nature of the violation.
   (B)   Of the time in which the violation may be abated, which time shall not
be less than five days nor more than 10 days from the date of the notice.
   (C)   That the city may act to abate the violation if it is not abated by
the owner within the time allowed.
   (D)   That in the event the city abates the nuisance, the cost of abatement
plus an administrative fee shall be assessed as a lien against the property
until paid.
   (E)   That refusal of the property owner to abate the nuisance or to allow
the city to abate a violation or nuisance shall result in prosecution.
   (F)   The failure to receive such notice shall not be a defense to any
function brought by a member of the public for injury or by the city to collect
the costs of abatement or impose penalties or other fees as authorized by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93; Am. Ord. passed 7-3-07)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.14 FAILURE TO OBEY NOTICE.
   For each and every day in which any such owner, or occupant, shall fail to
remove renovate and abate the nuisance after notification to do so, the owner
or occupant may be complained of, as for a separate and distinct offense and
punished as provided for in the penalty section.
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 8.2A1, passed 7-21-92; Am. Ord. passed 5-5-93; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-
21-95)
CHAPTER 96: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   General regulations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Any offering for sale of personal property which involves the
display of the personal property to the general public. The offering for sale
of a single item only, such as an automobile or a boat, shall not be considered
a GARAGE SALE. Any sales which are conducted as part of a permanent commercial
enterprise on commercially-zoned property shall not be considered to be garage
sales covered by this chapter. The term GARAGE SALE shall include the sales
commonly known as yard sales, porch sales, rummage sales, flea markets, lawn
sales, or any like sales.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-1-94)
§ 96.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate or permit to be operated on his property any garage
sale, except in compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   No garage sale shall be conducted for more than three consecutive
days.
   (B)   No more than three garage sales may be held during any calendar year
on the same property.
   (C)   A garage sale permit shall be obtained from the City Clerk prior to
the beginning of any garage sale.
   (D)   No signs advertising a sale regulated by this chapter shall be placed
on public property, utility poles, trees or on private property without the
express consent of the owner.
   (E)   Any temporary signs advertising a garage sale shall be removed within
24 hours after the completion of the garage sale. If the signs are not removed,
the city may remove the signs and assess a fee of $5 per sign for each sign
removed.
(Ord. 18, passed 3-1-94) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 18, passed 3-1-94; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 97: ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
97.01   Address number required
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Application
   
97.04   Posting
   
97.05   Numerals
   
97.06   New construction
   
97.07   Multiple address numbers
   
97.08   Private streets
   
97.09   Electrical service
   
97.10   Enforcement agent
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 ADDRESS NUMBER REQUIRED.
   Each dwelling and each principal building within the city shall obtain and
display an assigned address number. An address number shall only be issued for
a public or private street.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms are hereby defined:
   ASSIGNED ADDRESS NUMBER. An address number which has been designated for a
site by Detroit Edison prior to the effective date of this chapter or by the
city agent after the effective date of this chapter.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The main building located on a parcel or lot. Garages,
pole barns, and other buildings which are normally accessory to other
structures shall not be deemed to be principal buildings unless they are
provided with a separate electrical meter.
   PRIVATE STREET. A non-public street which has been approved by the city in
compliance with city ordinances. Easements and private drives shall not be
deemed to be private streets.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94)
§ 97.03 APPLICATION.
   All applicants for building permits for construction of a dwelling or other
principal building shall also apply for an address number for the structure.
The number shall be issued by the designated agent of the city as soon as all
required information is provided by the applicant.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94)
§ 97.04 POSTING.
   Each dwelling or other principal building on a parcel of land within the
city shall post the assigned address number. The number must be visible from
the street. Whenever a dwelling or principal building is located more than 100
feet from the center of a public or private street, or is otherwise difficult
to see from the street, the owner shall post the address number at the point at
which the driveway enters the public or private street.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 NUMERALS.
   Each posted address number shall consist of numerals at least three inches
in height and of a contrasting color to the attached surface.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   Whenever a new dwelling or other principal building is constructed, the
address number shall be posted in compliance with this chapter at the time
construction is commenced. However, if the address number has not been issued
prior to commencement of construction, the address number shall be posted
within 24 hours after being issued.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 MULTIPLE ADDRESS NUMBERS.
   Developments which need individual address numbers for locations within the
site shall comply as follows:
   (A)   Mobile home parks. The mobile home park shall be assigned a single
address number for the public road on which the park is located. Individual
home sites within the park shall be designated by that address number plus the
lot number of the site. Lots shall be consecutively numbered. Each internal
street shall have a continuously maintained sign indicating the range of lot
numbers on that street.
   (B)   Multiple family dwellings. Each individual building shall receive an
address number. Each unit within that building shall receive a number which
includes the building address number plus a number indicating the floor and the
unit.
   (C)   Multiple unit buildings. All other principal buildings containing more
than one unit shall receive an address number. The individual unit number shall
be determined by the enforcement agency based upon the layout and location of
the structure.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 PRIVATE STREETS.
   In the event that the dwelling or principal building is located on a private
street, there shall also be erected a road sign identifying the name of the
private street, in conformity with city street signage requirements, where the
private street enters the public street. The name of the private street shall
be reviewed and approved by the designated agency for registry of private
street and road names within the county. In the event that a private drive or
easement is upgraded to a private street, any existing numbers shall be
replaced with address numbers based on the private street location.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   No address number or permit for a dwelling or principal building shall be
issued unless an application has been filed with Detroit Edison to acquire
access to electrical service. In lieu of a Detroit Edison service application,
an applicant may sign a waiver to the effect that electrical service has not
been verified.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.10 ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
   The City Commission shall designate a specific entity or official to serve
as the agent to administer and enforce this chapter. The agent shall establish
a fee to defray the administrative cost of issuing address numbers.
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 19, passed 3-1-94; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 98: EMERGENCY RESPONSE: CITY EXPENSE RECOVERY
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Duty to remove and clean up
   
98.04   Failure to remove and clean up
   
98.05   Submittal of bill
   
98.06   Enforcement
   
98.07   Personnel, equipment, material and non-city agent costs
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to enable the city to require reimbursement
from those responsible (either intentionally, accidentally, or as a result of
actions by others, or as a result of uncontrollable natural forces) for the
leaking, spilling or other means of release of hazardous substances or
materials from containment, or for the repair of damaged and/or downed power
lines, electric service lines, gas mains and gas service conduits; thereby
requiring by the city and/or its agents, emergency containment, cleaning, and
disposal of hazardous substances or materials, or for the securing and prudent
monitoring of the site of an accident or natural disaster, including incidents
involving public or private utilities.
(Ord. 8.2B, passed 1-19-95)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENT, INCLUDING NATURAL DISASTER. An unforeseen or unexpected happening
or occurrence which of itself causes great harm or damage, or which creates the
potential for great harm or damage to individuals and/or property, and which
requires immediate and prudent securing and monitoring by the city, and/or
agents of the city, to reduce the potential for such damage.
   DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR MATERIALS. Any material or substance
that has been identified by city, state or federal laws or regulations to be
dangerous, hazardous, or obnoxious by reason of odor, spillage, leakage, or
other release from containment, and shall include but not to be limited to such
substances as chemicals and gases, explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum
products or gases, poisons, etiologic (biologic) agents, flammables and
corrosives.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing, sending and/or utilization of public
service, police, fire fighting and rescue services by the city at an incident
involving release of a dangerous or hazardous substance or material, or other
type of incident requiring immediate and prudent securing and monitoring by the
city and/or agents of the city.
   EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The direct costs incurred by the city in
making an appropriate emergency response to an incident, including the costs of
providing police, fire fighting and rescue services, Department of Public Works
and/or other city personnel, or the services of other agents of the city, at
the scene of an incident, and also including all administrative costs, directly
related to such incident, which may accrue after the occurrence of such
incident. Such costs further include the salaries or wages, workers
compensation benefits, and fringe benefits of the personnel responding to the
incident and the costs of equipment and materials which are used at the
incident.
(Ord. 8.2B, passed 1-19-95)
§ 98.03 DUTY TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP.
   It shall be the duty of any person, corporation, public or private utility,
or any other entity controlling and/or causing leakage, spillage or any other
release of dangerous or hazardous substances or materials, or for the securing
and monitoring of sites or locations of accidents and/or natural disasters,
including downed power lines and electric service lines and ruptured gas mains
and gas service conduits, to immediately secure, monitor, and clean up the area
or location in such manner that the area or location involved is fully restored
to the condition existing prior to such occurrence. The city shall inspect the
site to insure that cleanup has been fully completed.
(Ord. 8.2B, passed 1-19-95)
§ 98.04 FAILURE TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP.
   Any person or entity that fails to comply with §
98.03 above shall be liable to the city and shall reimburse the city for all
costs and expenses, including the costs incurred by the city of any agents the
city engages, for the complete abatement, cleanup and restoration of the
affected area.
(Ord. 8.2B, passed 1-19-95)
§ 98.05 SUBMITTAL OF BILL.
   The Clerk/Treasurer's office shall, within ten days of receiving itemized
costs incurred for emergency response, submit a bill for the same by first
class mail or personal delivery to any person or entity liable for these
expenses as previously enumerated under this chapter. The bill shall require
full payment within 30 days from date of billing.
(Ord. 8.2B, passed 1-19-95)
§ 98.06 ENFORCEMENT.
    (A)   If any person or entity liable under this chapter fails to reimburse
the city as provided and the person or entity is the owner of the affected
property, the city shall have the right and power to add any and all costs of
cleanup and restoration to the tax roll of such property, and to levy and
collect such costs in the same manner as provided for the levy and collection
of real property taxes against the property.
   (B)   The city shall also have the right to confiscate any vehicle and its
contents at the time of the incident where the costs cannot be added to the tax
roll, i.e. non-resident or non-taxpayer of the city. The city shall also have
the right to bring an action in the appropriate court to collect such costs if
such action is deemed to be necessary.
(Ord. 8.2B, passed 1-19-95)
§ 98.07 PERSONNEL, EQUIPMENT, MATERIAL, AND NON-CITY AGENT COSTS.
   (A)   A schedule of personnel, equipment and material costs shall be
compiled by each of the affected city departments, a copy of which shall be
maintained on file in the appropriate department and in the Finance Department.
The schedule of costs shall be revised and upgraded annually to reflect cost
increases related to personnel, equipment, or materials.
   (B)   Non-city agent costs shall include actual charges for the services
rendered by an outside city agent or agency, plus 15%, to cover related city
administrative costs.
(Ord. 8.2B, passed 1-19-95)
CHAPTER 99: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Definitions
City Tree Board
   
99.10   Creation; establishment
   
99.11   Term of office
   
99.12   Compensation
   
99.13   Duties and responsibilities
   
99.14   Operation
Tree Regulations
   
99.25   Street tree species to be planted
   
99.26   Spacing
   
99.27   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
99.28   Distance from street corners and fireplugs
   
99.29   Utilities
   
99.30   Public tree care
   
99.31   Tree topping
   
99.32   Pruning, corner clearance
   
99.33   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
99.34   Removal of stumps
   
99.35   Interference with City Tree Board
   
99.36   Arborist license and bond
   
99.37   Review by City Commission
 
   
99.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has a free access park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on and
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00)
CITY TREE BOARD
§ 99.10 CREATION; ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City of
Imlay City, Michigan, which shall consist of five members, citizens and
residents of this city, who shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
the Commission.
(Ord. 13. 6, passed 7-18-00)
§ 99.11 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be three years
except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Board shall
be for only one year and the term of two members of the first Board shall be
for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any
member, his successor shall be appointed for the portion of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00)
§ 99.12 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00)
§ 99.13 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate, counsel
and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such plan will be
presented annually to the City Commission and upon their acceptance and
approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the
city. The Board, when requested by the City Commission, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00)
§ 99.14 OPERATION.
   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations
and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a
quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00)
TREE REGULATIONS
§ 99.25 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The following list constitutes the official Street Tree Species for the
city. No species other than those included in this list may be planted as
Street Trees without written permission of the City Tree Board.
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees              Medium Trees                 Large Trees
Apricot                   Ash, Green                    Coffeetree, Kentucky
Crabapple, Flowering (sp) Hackberry                     Maple Sugar
Golden Rain Tree          Honeylocust (thornless)       Oak, Bur
Hawthorne (sp)            Linden or Basswood (sp)       Sycamore
Pear, Bradford            Oak, English                  Sycamore, London
Redbud                    Oak, Red                      Plantree
Soapberry                 Pagodatree, Japanese           
Lilac, Jap. Tree          Pecan                          
Peach, Flowering          Birch, River                   
Plum, Purpleleaf          Osageorange (Male, Thornless)  
Serviceberry              Persimmon                      
                         Sassafras                      
 
(Ord. 13. 6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.26 SPACING.
   The spacing of Street Trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in §
99.25, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: Small
Trees, 30 feet; Medium Trees, 40 feet; and Large Trees, 50 feet; except in
special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.27 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will
be in accordance with the three species size classes listed in §
99.25, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: Small Trees, two feet; Medium Trees, three feet; and Large Trees,
four feet.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.28 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIREPLUGS.
   No Street Tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No Street
Tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.29 UTILITIES.
   No Street Trees other than those species listed as Small Trees in §
99.25 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.30 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove trees,
plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The City
Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public
improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
This section does not prohibit the planting of Street Trees by adjacent
property owners providing that the selection and location of said trees are in
accordance with §§
99.25 through
99.29 of this chapter.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00)
§ 99.31 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any Street Tree, Park Tree, or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning is impractical may be exempted from this
chapter at the determination of the City Tree Board.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.32 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous
trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of
the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
of sign. In all cases, the city will care for trees between the sidewalk and
the edge of the street.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.33 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Board will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their
own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owners
property tax notice.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.34 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.35 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any Street
Trees, Park Trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.36 ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be $25 annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be
required of any public service company or city employee doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued,
each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance
in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 property
damage indemnifying the city or person injured or damaged resulting from the
pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.37 REVIEW BY CITY COMMISSION.
   The City Commission shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the City Tree Board to the City Commission who may hear the matter and
make final decision.
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses shall be subject to increased fines as provided by §
35.02 (C) (2).
(Ord. 13.6, passed 7-18-00)
CHAPTER 100: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
100.01   Purpose
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Permit requirements
   
100.04   Standards
   
100.05   Maintenance
   
100.06   Obstructions prohibited
   
100.07   Public property excavating
   
100.08   Reimbursements
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health and safety of
persons using sidewalks located within the city, and to enhance the value of
property located in the city by establishing standards for the construction,
maintenance and potential reimbursement of costs of the sidewalks.
   (B)   The City Commission is authorized by City Charter, Chapter 2 Municipal
Powers, Section 2.2 to provide for the requiring of an owner of real property
within the city to maintain sidewalks abutting on such property, and if the
owner fails to comply with such requirements or if the owner is unknown, to
construct and maintain such sidewalks and assess the cost thereof against the
abutting property in accordance with Chapter 11, Special Assessments.
   (C)   The City Commission shall have the authority to expend city funds
toward the installation, maintenance and repair of sidewalks in circumstances
as the City Commission determines fair and just in the sole and exclusive
discretion of the City Commission in accordance with the terms contained
herein.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK. A portion of the street right-of-way designated and improved for
pedestrian and non-motorized travel.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08)
§ 100.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall construct, rebuild or repair any sidewalk, except in
accordance with the specifications established by the city for such sidewalk,
and without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   Applications for permits required by this chapter shall be made upon
forms prescribed by the city. Such permits may be revoked by the city for
failure to comply with this chapter, including the rules and regulations
adopted pursuant to this chapter. Application for a permit under the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed as agreement by the applicant to promptly
complete any work permitted, observe all pertinent laws and regulations of the
city in connection therewith, repair all damage done to the public right-of-way
and protect and save harmless the city from all damages or actions at law that
may arise or may be brought on account of injury to persons or property
resulting from the work done under the permit or in connection therewith. The
fee for the permit shall be set by resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.04 STANDARDS.
   All sidewalks or portions thereof hereafter constructed or repaired shall
comply with city specifications as established by the Department of Public
Works.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.05 MAINTENANCE.
   A property owner shall be responsible for maintaining, free of the nuisances
described in §
95.08(A) and (B), all public ways abutting his or her own property as follows:
The city right-of-way on either side of a public street including, but not
limited to, any sidewalk, walkway, or driveway located therein.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.06 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct, or place or permit anything to obstruct, the free
passage or proper use of any public street, alley, sidewalk or public place,
except as may be temporarily permitted by the city, or while loading or
unloading goods, merchandise, materials, or persons.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.07 PUBLIC PROPERTY EXCAVATING.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall dig or tear up any pavement,
sidewalk or crosswalk, or dig any hole, ditch, drain or sewer, in any street,
alley or public property, without first obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of such person, firm or corporation, upon being
granted a permit as herein above required to maintain all traffic control
devices and to immediately refill and restore, resurface or repave such street,
alley or other public property so that the same will be in as good condition as
before. It shall further be the duty of such person, firm or corporation to
erect sufficient barrier around any cut, trench or excavation in such manner as
to prevent accidents, and to place and keep upon such barrier suitable and
sufficient colored lights during the night.
   (C)   A separate permit must be obtained for each occasion and such permit
shall specify the location of the cut, trench or excavation to be made.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.08 REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   Sidewalk repairs may be reimbursed to a petitioning property owner for
up to 50% of the cost incurred. The cost to the city shall not exceed a per
lineal foot amount to be determined annually. The following conditions must be
met:
      (1)   A cost estimate must be provided by the property owner before
rebuild or replacement is to commence;
      (2)   City funds must be available within the city budget, and adequate
replacement funding should exist for replacements so as not to compromise other
prioritized sidewalks;
      (3)   Sidewalks are to be constructed to city standards; and
      (4)   The DPW Superintendent provides approval both before and after
construction.
   (B)   Reimbursement shall not be made for repairs or replacements made to
correct owner-caused defects such as damage by construction or vehicular
traffic.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any section of this chapter shall be deemed
responsible for a civil infraction and shall pay a fine not to exceed $500.
Each day a violation exists may be considered a separate violation and a fine
so imposed.
(Ord. 20, passed 10-7-08)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
113.   JUNKYARDS
      
114.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
115.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 110: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Permits required
   
110.04   Exemptions
   
110.05   Application for massage establishment license
   
110.06   Application for massagist permit
   
110.07   Issuance of license or permit
   
110.08   Approval or denial of application
   
110.09   Waiver of application requirements
   
110.10   Multiple massage establishments
   
110.11   Posting of license
   
110.12   Register of employees
   
110.13   Revocation or suspension of license
   
110.14   Revocation of masseur or masseuse permit
   
110.15   Facilities necessary
   
110.16   Operating requirements
   
110.17   Age prohibitions
   
110.18   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
110.19   Hours
   
110.20   Employment of massagist
   
110.21   Inspection required
   
110.22   Unlawful acts
   
110.23   Sale or transfer or change of location
   
110.24   Name and place of business
   
110.25   Transfer of license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Massage Parlor Ordinance.”
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person over 18 years of age, other than a massagist, who
renders any service in  connection with the operation of a massage business and
receives compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license has been issued to own or operate a
massage establishment as defined herein.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
electrical apparatus or appliance with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions,
ointment or other such similar preparations commonly used in the practices of
massage, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her
behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage, and which has a fixed place
of business where any person, firm, association or corporation engages in or
carries on any of the activities of massage as defined in this section.
   MASSAGIST, MASSEUR, or MASSEUSE. Any person who, for any consideration
whatsoever, engages in the practice of massage as defined in this section.
   OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE. Any business, the function of which is to engage in
or carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client rather
than at a massage establishment as defined in this section.
   PATRON. Any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage at a location
designated by the customer or client rather than at a massage establishment as
defined in this section.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a permit has been issued to act in the
capacity of a massagist (masseur or masseuse) as herein defined.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL. Any school or educational institution licensed to do
business as a school or educational institution in the state in which it is
located, or any school recognized by or approved by or affiliated with the
American Massage and Therapy Association, Inc. and which has for its purpose
the teaching of the theory, method, profession, or work of massage, which
school requires a resident course of study not less than 70 hours before the
student shall be furnished with a diploma or certificate of graduation from
such school or institution of learning following the successful completion of
such course of study or learning.
   SEXUAL or GENITAL AREA.  Genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus, or perineum
of any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.03 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business license required. No person shall engage in or carry out the
business of massage unless he has a valid massage business license issued by
the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for each and every separate
office or place of business conducted by such person.
   (B)   Massagist's permit required. No person shall practice massage as a
massagist, employee or otherwise, unless he has a valid and subsisting
massagist's permit issued to him by the city pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following individuals while engaged in
the personal performance of the duties of their respective professions:
   (A)   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, or physical
therapists who are duly licensed to practice their respective professions in
the state or currently certified members of the American Massage Therapy
Associations or the International Myomssethes Federation.
   (B)   Nurses who are registered under the laws of this state.
   (C)   Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under the laws of this
state, except that this exemption shall apply solely to the massaging of the
neck, face, scalp and hair of the customer or client for cosmetic or
beautifying purposes.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-86)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE.
   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate, or conduct a massage
establishment shall file an application under oath with the city upon a form
provided by the City Clerk and pay a nonrefundable annual license fee, which
shall be $500 per year, or any part thereof. Copies of the application shall
within five days also be referred to the Construction Code Authority and the
Fire Department and Zoning Administration. The departments shall within 30 days
inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a massage establishment and
shall make written verification to the City Clerk concerning compliance with
the codes of the city that they administer. The application shall further be
referred to the Police Department for investigation of the applicant's
character and qualifications. Each application shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   A definition of service to be provided.
   (B)   The location, mailing address and all telephone numbers where the
business is to be conducted.
   (C)   The name and residence address of each applicant hereinafter all
provisions which refer to applicant include an applicant which may be a
corporation or partnership.
   (D)   If applicant is a corporation, the names and residence addresses of
each of the officers and directors of the corporation and of each stockholder
owning more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, and the address of the
corporation itself, if different from the address of the massage establishment.
   (E)   The name and address of any massage business or other establishment
owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in division
(C) wherein the business or profession of massage is carried on.
   (F)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
   (G)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit.
   (H)   Such other identification and information necessary to discover the
truth of the matters hereinbefore specified as required to be set forth in the
application.
   (I)   The names, current addresses and written statements of at least three
bona fide permanent residents of the United States that the applicant is of
good moral character. If the applicant is able, the statement must first be
furnished from residents of the city, then the county, then the state and
lastly from the rest of the United States. These references must be persons
other than relatives and business associates.
   (J)   Upon the completion of the above provided form and the furnishing of
all foregoing information the City Clerk shall accept the application for the
necessary investigations. The holder of a massage establishment license shall
notify the City Clerk of each change in any of the date required to be
furnished by this section within ten days after such change occurs.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.06 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGIST'S PERMITS.
   Application for a massagist's business permit shall be made to the City
Clerk in the same manner as provided above for massage establishment licenses,
accompanied by the annual nonrefundable massagist's permit fee of $100 per year
or part thereof. The application shall contain but not be limited to the
following:
   (A)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the massage is to
be practiced.
   (B)   Name and residence address, and all names, nicknames and aliases by
which the applicant has been known, including the two previous addresses
immediately prior to the present address of the applicant.
   (C)   Social Security number, driver's license number, if any, and date of
birth.
   (D)   Applicant's weight, height, color of hair and eyes, and sex.
   (E)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age.
   (F)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local code or ordinance provision,
except misdemeanor traffic violations.
   (G)   Fingerprints of the applicant taken by the Police Department.
   (H)   Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the date
of application and at least two inches by two inches in size.
   (I)   The massage or similar business history and experience ten years prior
to the date of application, including but not limited to whether or not such
person is previously operating in this or another city or state under license
or permit has had such license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended and the
reasons therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent to such
action of denial, suspension or revocation.
   (J)   The names, current addresses and written statements of at least five
bona fide permanent residents other than relatives, of the United States that
the applicant is of good moral character. If the applicant is able, the
statement must first be furnished from residents of the city, then the county,
then the state and lastly from the rest of the United States.
   (K)   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to practice in
the state, within seven days of the date of the application. The certificate
shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying physician and
that the applicant is free of communicable disease. The additional information
required by this division shall be provided at the applicant's expense.
   (L)   Such other information, identification and physical examination of the
person deemed necessary by the Police Chief in order to discover the truth of
the matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application.
   (M)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit.
   (N)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty or perjury that
the foregoing information contained in the application is true and correct, the
declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86; Am. Ord. passed 7-9-86)
§ 110.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The city shall issue a license for a massage establishment or a permit for a
masseur or masseuse, after ratification by the City Commission that
requirements for a massage establishment or a massagist permit described by
this chapter are met unless it finds:
   (A)   The correct permit or license fee has not been tendered to the city
and, in the case of a check, or bank draft, honored with payment upon
presentation.
   (B)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
comply with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the city's
building, zoning, and health regulations.
   (C)   The applicant, if an individual; or any of the stockholders holding
more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, any of the officers and
directors, if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; or the holder of any lien,
of any nature, upon the business and/or the equipment used therein; and the
manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of the business,
have been convicted of any of the following offenses or convicted of any
offense without the state that would have constituted any of the following
offenses if committed within the state:
      (1)   An offense involving in the use of force and violence upon the
person of another that amounts to a felony.
      (2)   An offense involving sexual misconduct.
      (3)   An offense involving narcotics, dangerous drugs or dangerous
weapons that amount to a felony.
      (4)   The city may issue a license or permit to any person convicted of
any of the crimes described in divisions (C)(1), (2), or (3) of this section if
it finds that such conviction occurred at least five years prior to the date of
the application and the applicant has had no subsequent felony convictions of
any nature and no subsequent misdemeanor convictions for crime mentioned in
this section.
   (D)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or fraudulent
statement of fact in the permit application or in any document required by the
city in conjunction therewith.
   (E)   The applicant has had a massage business, masseur, or other similar
permit or license denied, revoked, or suspended by the city or any other state
or local agency within five years prior to the date of the application.
   (F)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the officers and directors,
if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including limited
partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager of other personal
principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of
18 years.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.08 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   The city shall act to approve or deny an application for a license or permit
under this chapter within a reasonable period of time and in no event shall the
city act to approve or deny the license or permit later than 90 days from the
date that said application was accepted by the City Clerk. Every license or
permit issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate December 31 of each year
unless sooner suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.09 WAIVER OF APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall waive the requirements of §
110.06 if the applicant furnishes satisfactory evidence that he or she attended
not less than 70 hours of instruction in a school within or without this state
or in any foreign country that provides education substantially equal to or in
excess of the educational requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.10 MULTIPLE MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Should any massage business have more than one location where the business
of massage is pursued, then a permit, stating both the address of the principal
place of business, and of the other location(s) shall be issued by the City
Clerk upon the tender of a license fee of $500. Licenses issued for other
locations shall terminate on the same date as that of the principal place of
business, regardless of the date of issuance.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.11 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every massagist shall post the permit required by this chapter in his
work area.
   (B)   Every person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under
this chapter shall display the license in a prominent place.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 REGISTER OF EMPLOYEES.
   The licensee or person designated by the licensee of a massage establishment
shall maintain a register of all persons employed at any time as masseurs or
masseuses and their permit numbers. The register shall be available at the
massage establishment to representatives of the city during regular business
hours.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued for a massage establishment may be revoked or suspended
by the City Commission after notice and a hearing for good cause or in any case
where any employee of the licensee, including a masseur or masseuse is engaged
in any conduct which violates any of the state or local laws or ordinances at
licensee's place of business and the licensee has actual or constructive
knowledge by due diligence. Such permit may also be revoked or suspended by the
City Commission after notice and hearing, upon the recommendations of the
Lapeer County Health Department that such business is being managed, conducted
or maintained without regard to proper sanitation and hygiene. Revocation
proceedings by City Commission shall be conducted within a reasonable time
after notice of time and place of hearing and notice of cause for revocation.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.14 REVOCATION OF MASSEUR OR MASSEUSE PERMIT.
   A masseur or masseuse permit issued by the City Clerk shall be revoked or
suspended where it appears that the masseur or masseuse has been convicted of
any offense which would be cause for denial of a permit upon an original
application, has made a false statement on an application for a permit, or has
committed an act in violation of this chapter. The revocation proceedings shall
be held by the City Manager or his designee within a reasonable time after
notice of time and place of hearing and notice of cause for revocation.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.15 FACILITIES NECESSARY.
   No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless an
inspection by the city reveals that the establishment complies with each of the
following minimum requirements:
   (A)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and showers
shall be made waterproof with approved waterproofed materials and shall be
installed in accordance with the State Construction Code. Plumbing fixtures
shall be installed in accordance with the State Construction Code.
      (1)   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have waterproof floors,
walls and ceilings approved by the Construction Code Authority of the county
and city.
      (2)   Floors of wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to one
or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer. (Exception: Dry heat
rooms with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor
drains.)
   (B)   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   (C)   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separated from the clean storage areas.
   (D)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time
separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A single water
closet per sex shall be provided for each 20 or more employees or patrons of
that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may be substituted for water
closets after one water closet has been provided. Toilets shall be designated
as to the sex accommodated therein.
   (E)   Lavatories or wash basins provided with both hot and cold running
water shall be installed in either the toilet room or a vestibule. Lavatories
or wash basins shall be provided with soap and a dispenser and with sanitary
towels.
   (F)   All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the State Construction Code.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Building code adopted, see §
150.01
   Enforcement of state building codes, see §§ 150.15 et seq.
§ 110.16 OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective customers.
   (C)   All employees, including masseurs and masseuses, shall be clean and
wear clean, nontransparent outer garments, covering the sexual and genital
areas, whose use is restricted to the massage establishment. A separate
dressing room for each sex must be available on the premises with individual
lockers for each employee. Doors to such dressing rooms shall open inward and
shall be self-closing.
   (D)   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   No massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of
this chapter shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed,
published or distributed any advertisement picture or statement which is known
or through the exercise of reasonable care should be known to be false,
deceptive or misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize
any professional massage services.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 AGE PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to come or
remain on the premises of any massage business establishment, as masseur,
employee, or patron, unless such person is on the premises on lawful business.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, give, dispense, provide or keep, or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any massage business.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 HOURS.
   No massage business shall be kept open for any purpose between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.20 EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGIST.
   No person shall employ as a massagist any person unless the employee has
obtained and has in effect a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   The Chief of Police or his authorized representatives shall be authorized to
make inspections of each massage business establishment for the purposes of
determining that the provisions of this chapter and fully complied with. If in
the opinion of the Chief of Police or his authorized representative there is
probable cause to enter a massage establishment for the purpose of making
inspections and examinations pursuant to this chapter, he shall request the
owner or occupant thereof to grant permission for such entry, and if refused,
he shall inform the Chief of Police, and he, or his designee, a police office,
shall make application to a Judge of the District Court for a search warrant
showing the Judge why the search warrant should be issued for the purposes set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.22 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Treatment of person of opposite sex restricted. It shall be unlawful
for any person holding a permit under this section to treat a person of the
opposite sex, except upon the signed order of a licensed physician, osteopath,
chiropractor, or registered physical therapist, which order shall be dated and
shall specifically state the number of treatments, not to exceed ten. The date
and hour of each treatment given and the name of the operator shall be entered
on such order by the establishment where such treatments are given and shall be
subject to inspection by the police pursuant to §
110.21. The requirements of this division shall not apply to treatments given
in the residence of a patient, the office of a licensed physician, osteopath,
or registered physical therapist, chiropractor, or in a regularly established
and licensed hospital or sanitarium.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a massage parlor, to place his
or her hand or hands upon, to touch with any part of his or her body, to fondle
in any manner, or to massage, a sexual or genital part of any other person.
Sexual or genital parts shall include the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus,
or perineum of any person, or the vulva or breasts of a female.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in a massage parlor, to expose
his or her sexual or genital parts, or any portion thereof, to any other
person. It shall also be unlawful for any person, in a massage parlor, to
expose the sexual or genital parts, or any portions thereof, of any other
person.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while in the presence of any
other person in a massage parlor, to fail to conceal with a fully opaque
covering, the sexual or genital parts of his or her body.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or managing a
massage parlor, knowingly to cause, allow or permit in or about such massage
parlor, any agent, employee, or any other person under his control or
supervision to perform such acts prohibited in divisions (A), (B), or (C) of
this section.
   (F)   It shall be further unlawful for any permittee under this chapter to
administer a massage on an outcall basis as defined in §
110.02. Such person shall administer massages solely within an establishment
licensed to carry on such business under this chapter. Any violation of these
provisions shall be deemed grounds for revocation of the permit granted
hereunder. The restriction on outcall massages shall not apply to a permittee
who performs outcall massages as defined herein upon a customer or client, who,
because of reasons of physical defects or incapacities or due to illness is
physically unable to travel to the massage establishment. If any outcall
massage is performed under this exception, a record of the date and hour of
each treatment, and the name of the employee administering such treatment and
the type of treatment administered, as well as the nature of the physical
defect, incapacity or illness of said client or customer shall be kept by the
licensee or person or employee designated by the licensee. The records shall be
open to inspection by officials charges with the enforcement of public health
laws. The information furnished or secured as a result of any inspection shall
be confidential. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of the information by an
employee of the business of the city shall be unlawful.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any massage service to be carried on within
any cubicle, room, booth, or any area within a massage establishment which is
fitted with a door capable of being locked. All doors or doorway coverings
within a massage establishment shall have an unobstructed opening six inches by
six inches in size capable of clear two-way viewing into and out of all
cubicles, rooms, or booths. The opening shall be not less than four and one-
half feet from the floor of the establishment nor more than five and one-half
feet from the floor. Toilets and cubicles used solely for the application of
liquid and vapor baths shall have no such opening in the covering door or
curtain, but shall be clearly marked as to purpose on the exterior door or
curtain of the cubicle, room or booth. Nothing contained herein shall be
construed to eliminate other requirements of statute or ordinance concerning
the maintenance or premises, nor to preclude authorized inspection thereof,
whenever such inspection is deemed necessary by the police or health
departments.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 SALE OR TRANSFER OR CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   Upon sale, transfer, or relocation of a massage establishment, the license
therefor shall be null and void unless approved as provided in §
110.06 provided, however, that upon the death or incapacity of the licensee or
any co-licensee of the massage establishment, any heir or devisee of a deceased
licensee, or any guardian of an heir or devisee of a deceased licensee, may
continue the business of the massage establishment for a reasonable period of
time not to exceed 60 days to allow for an orderly transfer of the license.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
§ 110.24 NAME AND PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No person granted a license pursuant to this chapter shall operate the
massage establishment under a name not specified in his license nor shall he
conduct business under any designation or location not specified in his
license.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license or permit shall be transferable except with the consent of the
city and ratified by the City Commission. An application for such transfer
shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by fees prescribed in §§
110.04 and
110.05. The written application for such transfer shall contain the same
information as requested herein for initial application for the license or
permit.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Every person, except those persons who are specifically exempted by this
chapter, whether acting as an individual owner, employee of the owner, operator
or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere agent or independent
contractor for the owner, employee or operator, or acting as participant or
worker in any way directly or indirectly who gives massages or operates a
massage establishment or any of the services defined in this chapter without
first obtaining a license or permit and paying a fee to do so from the city or
shall violate any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500
or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Any violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance
per se, and may be abated by order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 8.17, passed 5-6-86)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Application needed
   
111.03   Application information
   
111.04   Investigation into character
   
111.05   Fees
   
111.06   Expiration dates
   
111.07   Hours
   
111.08   Age limits
   
111.09   Illegal games
   
111.10   Revocation of license
   
111.11   Exemptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall open or cause to be opened or conduct,
maintain or operate any public dance hall, billiard, pool or bowling alley
within the city, without first having obtained a license from the City Manager.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 APPLICATION NEEDED.
   Each person, firm or corporation desiring to open or maintain a public dance
hall, billiard and pool room or bowling alley, or a combination of both, shall
first make application to the City Manager for a license therefor. The
application shall be filed at least ten days prior to the tile of granting such
license.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   The City Manager may issue a license to any person, firm or corporation
within the time prescribed by this chapter, after this application has been
filed, to conduct or operate a public dance hall, billiard and pool room or
bowling alley. The application shall contain the full name and address of all
parties financially interested, also the name or names of the active manager or
person in charge with their addresses. The application shall also state the
following:
   (A)   The premises where said dance hall, billiard and pool room or bowling
alley is to be conducted.
   (B)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in operating a dance hall,
billiard or pool room or bowling alley, and when, where and how long in each
place within the last five years.
   (C)   Whether the applicant or any one financially interested or designated
to act as manager of the dance hall, billiard and pool room or bowling alley
has during the five years then last past been convicted of a violation of the
law of this state or this code and any other ordinance of the city, and
separate statement of each conviction, nature and offense and punishment given.
   (D)   The name of the owner of the premises on which the dance hall,
billiard and pool room or bowling alley is located. The application shall be
signed by the applicant or applicants or if a firm or corporation, by the
manager and any of its officials.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58)
§ 111.04 INVESTIGATION INTO CHARACTER.
   It shall be the duty of the City Manager to cause an investigation to be
made as to the character of the applicant or applicants and of the officers of
the corporation and of the person or persons who are to have general management
of the business and file a written report to his findings with the City Clerk,
and the applicant shall be rejected if the City Manager shall find any of the
persons named in the application not of good moral character, or that the
person or persons have previously been connected with any billiard and pool
room or bowling alley or public dance hall where the license has been revoked,
or where any of the provisions of this chapter or the state law with reference
to public dance halls, billiard or pool rooms and bowling alleys have been
violated, or if the dance hall, billiard or bowling alley sought to be licensed
does not comply, in every way with the regulations, ordinances and rules
applicable thereto.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58)
§ 111.05 FEES.
   The fee for annual license shall be as established from time to time by a
motion of the City Commission.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58)
§ 111.06 EXPIRATION DATES.
   All licenses granted under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on
January 1 of each year. The license shall not be transferred.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58)
§ 111.07 HOURS.
   No, person, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated in the
city any public dance hall, billiard and pool room or any public place or room
where there is dancing, where billiard and pool table or tables are kept
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., or to harbor or permit any person
or persons, except regular employees who are performing necessary work within
the premises, to be or remain in such place during those hours.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58, Am. Ord. passed 11-15-77) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 AGE LIMITS.
   No person or persons shall be permitted to play billiards or pool in any
billiard and pool room who is under the age of 17 years (unless by consent of
parent or guardian) and it is the duty of all proprietors, owners, managers, or
any one connected with the business of operating or maintaining any pool or
billiard room to ascertain the age or ages of the person or persons referred to
in this section.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 ILLEGAL GAMES.
   No dice shall be thrown nor shall a pea-ball or shake-ball be used, nor
shall cards, raffles or other games of chance or any form of gambling be
permitted in any billiard and pool room or bowling alley, in the city, or in
the room in which the tables are located or at any cigar stand or any other
business in the same room, whether or not said room is divided by a partition.
Nor shall any checks be given which can be redeemed for merchandise or cash,
and no screens or other obstructions shall be placed in the doors or windows of
said billiard and pool rooms or bowling alleys, but must at all times be clear
so as to permit an unobstructed view into the room.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Commission may revoke any license issued under this chapter upon a
written report submitted to them by the City Manager and Chief of Police for
any violation of the terms of this chapter, or for any disorderly or immoral
conduct on the premises or for the violation of any of the rules, regulations,
ordinances and laws governing or applying to public dance halls, billiard or
bowling alleys. Any license thus forfeited or revoked shall not be granted to
the same person, firm or corporation until at least one year has elapsed, from
the time set forth in this chapter, for the expiration of same.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58)
§ 111.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   Dances conducted by charitable and/or eleemosynary organizations shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $100 or imprisonment
in the county jail for a period of not less than 30 days or more than 90 days,
or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 10.1, passed 3-5-58)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Purpose; interpretation
   
112.02   Definitions
Restrictions and Regulations
   
112.15   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
112.16   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
112.17   Proprietary information
   
112.18   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
112.19   Tolling order
   
112.20   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
112.21   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
112.22   Rate decisions and orders
   
112.23   Refund; notice
   
112.24   Written decisions; public notice
Administration and Enforcement
   
112.35   Rules and regulations
   
112.36   Failure to give notice
   
112.37   Additional hearings
   
112.38   Additional powers
   
112.39   Failure to comply; remedies
   
112.40   Conflicting provisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt regulations consistent with the
Communications Act of 1934 and the FCC Rules with respect to basic cable
service rate regulations, and prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable
opportunity for consideration of the views of interest parties in connection
with basic cable service rate regulation by the city. This chapter shall be
implemented and interpreted consistent with the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply. All
other words and phrases used I this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
   ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as amended
by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992,
P.U.B.L. 102-385), and as may be amended from time to time.
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 CFR, § 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. “Basic Service” as defined in the FCC Rules, and any
other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the city
pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act;
   INCREASE IN RATES. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 112.15 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the city shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.16 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the City Clerk. For purposes of this chapter, the filing
of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least ten
copies have been received by the City Clerk. The City Commission may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator's filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the city pursuant to division (A) of this section, a cable operator shall
provide all information requested by the City Manager in connection with the
city's review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier and
associated equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The City Manager
may establish deadlines for submission of the requested information and the
cable operator shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 USC, § 543 and 47 CFR, §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.17 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   In this chapter, if any rules or regulations adopted by the city
pursuant to §§
112.01,
112.15 or
112.35 or any request for information pursuant to §
112.16 requires the production of proprietary information, the cable operator
shall produce the information. However, at the time the allegedly proprietary
information is submitted, a cable operator may request that specific,
identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and withheld
from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the information
should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those reasons. The
request for confidentiality will be granted if the city determines that the
preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure is consistent with the
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C., § 552. The city shall
place in a public file for inspection any decision that results in information
being withheld. If the cable operator requests confidentiality and the request
is denied, where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary information will
be returned to it; or the cable operator may seek review within five working
days of the denial in any appropriate forum. Release of the information will be
stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the city. The city shall weigh the policy considerations
favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting inspection in
light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly notify the
requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the information s to
the deposition of the request. It may grant, deny or condition a request. The
requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the decision by
filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be stayed pending
resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 CFR, § 0.459.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.18 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
112.16(A), the City Clerk shall publish a public notice, the costs of the
publication to be paid by the cable television operator prior to the
publication, in a newspaper of general circulation in the city which shall
state that the filing has been received by the City Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying, and interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments
on the filing to the City Clerk not later than seven days after the public
notice is published. The City Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of
the date, time and place of the meeting at which the City Commission shall
first consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice
shall be mailed by first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In
addition, if a written staff or consultant's report on the schedule of rates or
the proposed increase is prepared for consideration of the City Commission,
then the City Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first-class mail to the
cable operator at least three days before the meeting at which the City
Commission shall first consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.19 TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
112.16(A) unless the City Commission (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 CFR, § 76.933 by issuing a
brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date of
filing. The City Commission may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional 90
days in cases not involving cost-of- service showings for an additional 150
days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.20 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
112.19 and 47 CFR, § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the city any additional information
required or requested pursuant to §
112.16. In addition, the City Commission shall hold a public hearing to
consider the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or
150-day period, as the case may be. The City Clerk shall publish a public
notice of the public hearing, the costs of the publication to be paid by the
cable television operator, in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city which shall state the date, time and place at which the hearing shall be
held; interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at such
hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and, copies of the schedule of rates or the
proposed increase in rates and related information (except those parts which
may be withheld as proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from
the office of the City Clerk. The public notice shall be published not less
than 15 days before the hearing. In addition, the City Clerk shall mail by
first-class mail a copy of the public notice to the cable operator not less
than 15 days before the hearing.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.21 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the City manager shall cause a report to be
prepared for the City Commission which shall (based on the filing of the cable
operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant's
review, and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the City Commission pursuant to §
112.22. The City Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable operator by
first-class mail not less than 20 days before the City Commission acts under §
112.22. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
City Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator with the City Clerk within ten days after the report is mailed to the
cable operator, the City Clerk shall forward it to the City Commission.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.22 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The City Commission shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which, in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates; denies the
existing rates or proposed increase; orders a rate reduction; prescribes a
reasonable rate; allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund; or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the City Commission issues an order allowing the
existing rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it
shall also direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47
CFR, § 76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90
days of the tolling order under §
112.19 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
112.19 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.23 REFUND; NOTICE.
   The City Commission may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47 CFR,
§ 76.942. Before the City Commission orders any refund to subscribers, the City
Clerk shall give at least seven days written notice to the cable operator by
first-class mail of the date, time and place at which the City Commission shall
consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity for the cable
operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by agent, or by
letter at such time for the purpose of submitting comments to the City
Commission.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.24 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Any order of the City Commission pursuant to §§
112.22 or
112.23 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the City
Commission, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption. The City
Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written order, the costs of the
publication to be paid by the cable television operator, in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city which shall summarize the written decision,
and state that copies of the text of the written decision are available for
inspection or copying from the office of the City Clerk. In addition, the City
Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the written decision to the cable
operator by first-class mail.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 112.35 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
112.16, the City Commission may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.36 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the City Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the City Commission.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.37 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the City Commission may
hold additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the City
Commission, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.38 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The city shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules, the
cable operator's franchise, and all other applicable law. The powers exercised
pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules, and this chapter shall be in addition to
powers conferred by law or otherwise. The city may take any action not
prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public interest in
connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.39 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The city may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator's consent agreement with the city) for failure to comply with
the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to this
chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or
denial of renewal of a cable operator's consent agreement.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
§ 112.40 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between this chapter and the provisions of any
prior ordinance or any franchise, permit, consent agreement or other agreement
with a cable operator, then the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord., passed 11-17-93)
CHAPTER 113: JUNKYARDS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Licenses
   
113.03   Fees
   
113.04   Second-hand stores
   
113.05   Lot size
   
113.06   Green strips
   
113.07   Gates
   
113.08   Setback
   
113.09   Piling, stacking, and storing of junk
   
113.10   Limitation on burning and the like
   
113.11   Name of dealer and record of acquisition
   
113.12   Retention and tagging
   
113.13   Limitation on purchase or acquisition of articles
   
113.14   Limitation on licenses
   
113.15   Sanitary requirements
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Any personal property which is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale,
reduction, or similar disposition or which is possessed, transported, owned,
accumulated, dismantled, or assorted for any of the aforesaid reasons. Without
limiting the definition of junk the term shall include used or salvaged metals
and their compounds or combinations, used or salvaged ropes, bags, papers,
rags, glass, rubber and similar articles or property and used motor vehicles
which are employed, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or salvaging
parts therefrom.
   JUNK DEALER. A person who engages in the business of buying, exchanging,
accumulating, receiving, storing or selling any article or articles which may
be reasonably be defined as junk except that this definition shall not apply to
retail merchants who repossess their own merchandise sold on a title retaining
contract or chattel mortgage basis.
   JUNKYARD or SHOP. Any place at which a junk dealer buys, exchanges,
accumulates, receives, stores, sells or otherwise handles junk.
   SECOND-HAND DEALER. Any person who engages in the business of buying,
exchanging, accumulating, receiving, storing or selling any second-hand
property, except that this definition shall not  apply to retail merchants who
repossess their own merchandise sold on a title-retaining contract or chattel
mortgage basis.
   SECOND-HAND PROPERTY. Any used household furniture, used wearing apparel,
used lumber, brick or tile, used plumbing fixtures, used electrical fixtures,
used articles made of metals, used jewelry, used tools and any other used
articles or personal property bought and sold by other than the original user.
   SECOND-HAND STORE. Any place at which a second-hand dealer buys, exchanges,
accumulates, receives, stores or sells second-hand property.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65)
§ 113.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   Application. No person shall maintain or operate a junkyard or second-
hand store without first obtaining a license therefore. Applications for such a
license shall be made to the City Manager. The applicant shall state his name,
whether person, firm or corporation, the address and legal description of the
place or places where the business is to be or is conducted or maintained, and
the applicant's residence for a period of three years preceding such
application. All applications so received shall be referred to the City Health
Officers, Zoning Administrator, Fire and Police agencies of the city for
investigation and recommendation.
   (B)   Issue. After receipt of such agencies recommendation, the application
shall be submitted to the City Commission. The sole power to grant licenses
hereunder is vested in the City Commission and licenses so granted shall be
issued by the City Manager.
   (C)   Consent of property owners. Any person seeking to establish or move a
junkyard in a locality not previously used for that purpose shall first obtain
the consent in writing of 60% of the owners of all property within 1,000 feet
of any boundary line of the property on which the junkyard is to be conducted.
   (D)   Expiration. All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on July 1 of
each year.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65)
§ 113.03 FEES.
   Each person engaged in or carrying on the business of a junk dealer or
second-hand dealer shall pay the sum of $25 license fee per annum, provided
that a separate license shall be required for each store, yard, or location at
which a business is conducted.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 SECOND-HAND STORES.
   The business of a second-hand store shall be conducted entirely within the
confines of a building approved for the same.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 LOT SIZE.
   The minimum lot size of each junkyard shall be four acres.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65)
§ 113.06 GREEN STRIPS.
   All junkyards shall be completely enclosed by a tight, uniformly, thickly-
planted and well-maintained green strip not less than eight feet in height
above the centerline of any adjacent public highway, street or alley of not
less than eight feet in height above any adjoining property and 15 feet in
width, except for, gates for places in ingress and the main building where the
business is conducted.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 GATES.
   All access gates to the premises shall swing inward and shall be closed when
the premises are not open for business.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 SETBACK.
   All junkyard buildings, fences and green strips abutting a public road or
highway shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from the abutting property line
or highway, street, alley or right-of-way line, as the case may be.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 PILING, STACKING, AND STORING OF JUNK.
   No junk shall be piled, stacked or stored above the level of the top of the
green strip.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 LIMITATION ON BURNING AND THE LIKE.
   All burning, smelting, rendering or reducing by heat shall be limited to the
hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. on Tuesdays through Fridays, and shall be done
in compliance with all fire and health regulations.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 NAME OF DEALER AND RECORD OF ACQUISITION.
   Every junk dealer and second-hand dealer shall post in a conspicuous place
in or upon his place of business a sign bearing his name and occupation legibly
inscribed thereon. He shall maintain a separate book in which shall be entered
in the English language at the time of purchase or exchange a record and
description of all articles including the name, residence and description of
the person from whom the article was secured, and the date and hour when such
transaction occurred; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply
to scrap iron, steel, old rage, or waste paper. Each entry shall be numbered
consecutively beginning with number one and the record book shall be open for
inspection by members of any police agency, sheriff's office or other public
official.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65)
§ 113.12 RETENTION AND TAGGING.
   Every recorded article acquired or exchanged shall be retained not less than
eight days before further disposition thereof, and shall be kept in an
accessible place on the property where purchased, received or exchanged. A tag
bearing the recorded entry number shall be attached thereto at a visible and
conspicuous place.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 LIMITATION ON PURCHASE OR ACQUISITION OF ARTICLES.
   No purchase or receipt of any article shall be made from any person who at
the time is intoxicated, or from a habitual drunk, or from any person known by
the dealer to be a thief or an associate of thieves, or a receiver of stolen
property, or from any minor under the age of 21 years without the written
consent of his parents.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 LIMITATION ON LICENSES.
   No person known to be a thief or an associate of thieves, a habitual drunk,
a receiver of stolen property or incapable of keeping the records or making the
reports herein provided for shall be deemed to be a suitable person to receive
a license as a second-hand dealer or junk dealer.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.15 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any second-hand dealer or junk dealer to sell or
deliver, or cause to be sold or delivered, any bed mattress which is stained or
discolored or the contents of which are musty, or to sell or deliver any
second-hand clothing or bedding until the same has been thoroughly cleaned and
disinfected, or to sell or deliver any second-hand linen until the same has
been sanitarily laundered. These limitations shall not be when the articles are
to be sold or delivered for reprocessing.
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 6.2, passed 6-15-65; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 114: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
114.01   Permit and license required
   
114.02   Definition
   
114.03   Provisions
   
114.04   Application
   
114.05   Investigation and issuance
   
114.06   Fees
   
114.07   Bond
   
114.08   Badges
   
114.09   Exhibition of license
   
114.10   Duty of police to enforce
   
114.11   Records
   
114.12   Revocation of license
   
114.13   Appeal
   
114.14   Expiration of license
   
114.15   Hours for soliciting, canvassing, and peddling
   
114.16   Regulations regarding traffic and noise making
   
114.17   Private residences
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, canvasser, or peddler as defined in
§
114.02 to engage in such business within the commercial and business areas of
the city without first obtaining a permit and license therefore in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether resident of the city or not,
traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck, or any other type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future
delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether
or not such individual has, carries, exposes for sale a sample of the subject
of such sale or whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not,
provided that such definition shall include any person, who for himself or for
another person, firm, or corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any
building, structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room, lodging house,
apartment, shop, or any other place within the city for  the sole purpose of
exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying, or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon,
automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance, and further
provided that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction make
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a peddler and subject to the
provisions of this chapter. The definition of the word “peddler” shall include
the words “hawker” and “huckster.”
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.03 PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to nor
regulate commercial travelers employed by wholesale houses and selling staple
articles of merchandise to merchants of the city to be retailed by them; nor to
persons selling milk; nor to the delivery of goods sold by business houses of
the city; nor to sales for local charitable purposes or local nonprofit
organizations; nor to permanently employed sales representatives who solicit
orders or services from and/or distribute goods to, regular customers on
established routes.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applicants for permit and license under this chapter must file with
the City Clerk a sworn application in writing (in duplicate) on a form to be
furnished by the City Clerk, which shall give the following information. The
requirements below shall also apply to employees of the applicant, if employees
are involved in peddling, soliciting, or canvassing.
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant.
      (2)   Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant.
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold.
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship.
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
      (6)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or
orders taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such
goods or products are located at the time said application is filed, and the
proposed method of delivery.
      (7)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be at
least two inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant
in a clear and distinguishing manner.
      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any provisions of this code or any
other municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense, and the punishment or
penalty assessed thereof.
   (B)   At the time of filing the application, a fee of $50 shall be paid to
the City Clerk to cover the cost of investigation of the facts stated therein.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82; Am. Ord. passed 7-3-90)
§ 114.05 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the original shall be referred to the
Chief of Police, who shall cause the investigation of the applicant's business
and moral character to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the
public good.
   (B)   If as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police
shall endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for the same,
and return the application to the City Clerk, who shall notify the applicant
that his application is disapproved and that no permit and license shall be
issued.
   (C)   If as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police shall endorse on the application his approval, execute a permit
addressed to the applicant for the carrying on the business applied for and
return said permit along with the application to the City Clerk, who shall,
upon payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant his permit
and issue a license. The license shall contain the signature and seal of the
issuing officer and shall show the name, address and photograph of said
licensee, the class of license issued, and the kind of goods to be sold
thereunder, the amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the length of time
the same shall be operative, as well as the license number and other
identifying description of any vehicle used in such soliciting, canvassing,
and/or peddling. The Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all licenses
issued.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.06 FEES.
   (A)   The license fee which shall be charged by the City Clerk for such
license shall be:
      (1)   $35 per week;
      (2)   $75 per month; and
      (3)   $150 per year.
   (B)   The annual fees herein provided shall be assessed on a calendar year
basis and on or after July 1, the amount of such fee for annual license shall
be half the amount stipulated above for the remainder of the year.
   (C)   No fee shall be required of any person who is a war veteran and who
has first obtained a peddler's license pursuant to the terms and provisions of
Act No. 359 of the Public Acts of 1921, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 35.441
through 35.443 provided that the goods, wares, and merchandise proposed to be
sold by said person are his own.
   (D)   None of the license fees provided for by this chapter shall be so
applied as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case
where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for a license to
place an undue burden upon such commerce, he may apply to the Manager for an
adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable, or
unfair as to such commerce. The application may be made before, at, or within
six months after payment of the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by
affidavit, and supporting testimony show his method of business and the gross
volume of business and such other information as the Manager may deem necessary
in order to determine the extent, if any, of such undue burden on such
commerce. The Manager shall then conduct an investigation, comparing the
applicant's business with other business of like nature and shall make findings
of fact from which he shall determine whether the fee fixed by this chapter is
unfair, unreasonable, or discriminatory as to the applicant's business and fix
as the license fee for the applicant, an amount that is fair, reasonable, and
nondiscriminatory, or if the fee has already been paid, shall order a refund of
the amount over and above the fee so fixed. In fixing the fee to be charged,
the Manager shall have the power to base the fee upon a percentage of gross
sales or any other method which will assure that the fee assessed shall be
uniform with that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount
assessed does not exceed the fees as prescribed by division (A) above. Should
the Manager determine the gross sales measure of the fee to be the fair basis,
he may require the applicant to submit either at the time of termination of the
applicant's business in the city or at the end of each three month period, a
sworn statement of the gross sales and payment of the amount of fee therefore,
provided that no additional fee during any one calendar year shall be required
after the licensee shall have paid an amount equal to the annual license as
prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82; Am. Ord. passed 7-3-90)
§ 114.07 BOND.
   Every applicant not a resident of the city, or who being a resident of the
city represents a firm whose principal place of business located outside of the
state, shall file with the City Clerk a surety bond, running to the city in the
amount of $1,000 with surety acceptable to and approved by the Manager,
conditioned that the city and the statutes of the State of Michigan regulating
and concerning the business of solicitor and guaranteeing to any citizen of the
city that all money paid as a down payment will be accounted for and applied
according to the representations of the solicitor and further guaranteeing to
any citizen of the city doing business with the solicitor, that the property
purchased will be delivered according to the representations of the solicitor.
Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use or benefit
of the aggrieved person.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.08 BADGES.
   The City Clerk shall issue to each licensee at the time of delivery of his
license, a badge which shall contain the words “LICENSED SOLICITOR, CANVASSER,
OR PEDDLER,” the period for which the license is issued, and the number of the
license in letters and figures easily discernible from a distance of ten feet.
The badge shall, during the time such licensee is engaged in soliciting, be
worn constantly by the licensee on the front of his outer garment in such a way
as to be conspicuous.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.09 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Solicitors, canvassers, and peddlers are required to exhibit their licenses
at the request of any citizen.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.10 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to require any person
seen soliciting, canvassing, and/or peddling, and who is not known by such
officer to be duly licensed and to enforce the provisions of this chapter
against any person found to be violating the same.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.11 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall report to the City Clerk all convictions for
violations of this chapter and the City Clerk shall maintain a record for each
license issued and record the reports of violations therein.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Permits and licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may
be revoked by the Chief of Police of the city after notice and hearing, for any
of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement in the course of
carrying on his business as solicitor, canvasser, or peddler;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
or
      (5)   Conducting the business of soliciting, canvassing, or peddling in
an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace
or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the
public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his last known address at least five days prior to the date set for hearing.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.13 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the City Clerk
in the denial of a permit or license as provided in §
114.06 shall have the right of appeal to the City Commission of the city. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the City Commission within 14 days after
notice of the action complained of has been mailed to such person's last known
address, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal.
The City Commission shall set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and
notice of such hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as
provided in §
114.12 for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and order to the City
Commission on such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.14 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All annual licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
on December 31 in the year when issued. Other than annual licenses shall expire
on the date specified in the license.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82)
§ 114.15 HOURS FOR SOLICITING, CANVASSING, AND PEDDLING.
   The hours for soliciting, canvassing, and peddling shall be between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.16 REGULATIONS REGARDING TRAFFIC AND NOISE MAKING.
   No licensee shall continue to hawk or peddle merchandise or services on any
street, alley, or public place in the city when requested by a police officer
to refrain therefrom because of congested traffic conditions. No licensee shall
shout or call his wares in a loud, boisterous, or unseemly manner, or to the
disturbance of citizens or dwellers in the city, nor shall any licensee use any
loud or harsh horn or bell or other noise making device to call attention to
his wares or to his presence for the purpose of conducting the business or acts
for which his license was granted.
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.17 PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
   The practice of going in and on private residences in the city by
solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants or transient vendors of
merchandise not having been requested or invited to do so by the owner or
owners, occupant or occupants of the private residences for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise and/or disposing
of and/or peddling or hawking the same is declared to be a nuisance. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the sale, or soliciting of order
for the sale, of milk, dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs and other farm
and garden produce so far as the sale of these commodities is now authorized by
law.
(Ord. 8.4, passed 3-5-58) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 8.4a, passed 10-5-82; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 115: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Conflict
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   Permit required
   
115.05   Issuance of permit
   
115.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
115.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
115.08   Route maps
   
115.09   Repair of damage
   
115.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
115.11   Modification of existing fees
   
115.12   Savings clause
   
115.13   Use of funds
   
115.14   Annual report
   
115.15   Cable television operators
   
115.16   Existing rights
   
115.17   Compliance
   
115.18   Reservation of police powers
   
115.19   Severability
   
115.20   Authorized city officials
   
115.21   Municipal civil infraction
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public-rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002) ("Act") and other
applicable law, and to ensure that the city qualifies for distributions under
the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and complying with the Act.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight
Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002), as amended from time to time.
   CITY. The City of Imlay City.
   CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of Imlay City or its
designee. This chapter does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the City Commission.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this chapter
to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the city
for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following:
   AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to Section 3 of the Act.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumer
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term Commission
in the Act.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a
federal, state, or private right-of-way.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial, mobile service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of Title III
of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Those
terms as defined in Section 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include a person or an
affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed commercial mobile
radio service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of the Communications Act
of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, or service provided by any
wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose of the Act and this
chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the following:
   (1)   A cable television operator that provides a TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SERVICE.
   (2)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
"telecommunication facilities" located within a public right-of-way.
   (2)   A person providing broadband Internet transport access service.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally.  Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with Section 6(1) of the
Act. A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with
the City Clerk, one copy with the City Manager, and one copy with the City
Attorney. Upon receipt, the City Clerk shall make seven copies of the
application and distribute a copy to the City Commissioners. Applications shall
be complete and include all information required by the Act, including without
limitation a route map showing the location of the provider's existing and
proposed facilities in accordance with Section 6(5) of the Act. 2.
   (C)   Confidential Information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, 1976 PA 442, being M.C.L.A §§ 15.231 -
15.246, pursuant to Section 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider
shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application Fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional Information. The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the City Manager. If the city and the applicant cannot agree on
the requirement of additional information requested by the city, the city or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in Section 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously Issued Permits. Pursuant to Section 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under Section 251 of
the Michigan Telecommunications Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251 and
authorizations or permits issued by the city to telecommunications providers
prior to the 1995 enactment of Section 251 of the Michigan telecommunications
act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing Providers. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under
Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251,
shall submit to the city an application for a permit in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this subsection is
not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D) above.
A provider under this division shall be allowed up to an additional 180 days to
submit the permit application if by the Authority, as provided in Section 5 (4)
of the Act.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or Denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to Section 15(3)
of the Act, the City Manager shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under §
115.04(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the city. Pursuant to
Section 6(6) of the Act, the City Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City
Manager has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the
date on which the application was filed and the date on which permit was
granted or denied. The City Manager shall not unreasonably deny an application
for a permit.
   (B)   Form of Permit. If an application for permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with Sections 6(1),
6(2) and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to Section 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond Requirement. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may require that a bond be
posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider's access and use.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.06 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under
Chapter 150 of this code, as amended, for construction within the public
rights-of-way. No fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering
permit.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.07 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to Section 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to Section 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
The route maps should be in paper format unless and until the MPSC determines
otherwise, in accordance with Section 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to Section 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider
undertaking an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all
damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or
within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-
way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
115.04(D) above, a telecommunications provider with telecommunications
facilities in the city’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance
fee to the authority pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(1) of the Act, the city
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(4)
of the Act, the city also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers
with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city's
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under Section
8 of the Act. The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected
by the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of
Section 13(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications
providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are
otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be
contrary to the city's policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to Section 13(5) of the Act, if Section 8 of the Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
115.11 above shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.13 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant Section 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the city from the
authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related purposes.
In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city from the
authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the Local Street
Fund maintained by the city under Act No. 51 of the Public Acts of 1951.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.14 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to Section 10(5) of the Act, the City Manager shall file an annual
report with the authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the authority.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.15 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to Section 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.16 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein
with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.17 COMPLIANCE.
   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this chapter
is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions hereof
should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose. The city shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including but not
limited to the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 - 15.246, as provided in §
115.04;
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
115.04(F);
   (C)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
115.04(G);
   (D)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city; in accordance
with §
115.05(A);
   (E)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
115.05(A);
   (F)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
115.05(A);
   (G)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
115.05(B);
   (H)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
115.05(C);
   (I)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with §
115.05(D);
   (J)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
115.06;
   (K)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city's
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
115.11;
   (L)   Submitting an annual report to the authority, in accordance with §
115.14; and
   (M)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
115.15.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.18 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to Section 15(2) of the Act, this ordinance shall not limit the
city's right to review and approve a telecommunication provider's access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city's authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.19 SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts; sentences, paragraphs, sections, and clauses of this
ordinance are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence,
paragraph, section, or clause of this chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or
invalid by a court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the constitutionality or
validity of any remaining provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.20 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Chapter Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by the
City Code.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
§ 115.21 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to
Chapter 35 of the Code of Ordinances. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit the remedies available to the city in the event of a
violation by a person of this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 21, passed 12-3-02)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disorderly persons — types of unlawful conduct
   
130.02   Firearms
   
130.03   Trees, poles, lamp posts and the like
   
130.04   City property
   
130.05   Alcoholic beverages — open containers
School Grounds
   
130.15   School property
   
130.16   Aiding and abetting
   
130.17   Disturbances
   
130.18   Foul language
   
130.19   Persons allowed on school grounds
Loitering
   
130.30   Loitering of minors
   
130.31   Responsibility of parents
   
130.32   Responsibility of businesses
   
130.33   Violations
   
130.34   Anti-loitering regulations
Graffiti
   
130.50   Findings
   
130.51   Definitions
   
130.52   Graffiti prohibited
   
130.53   Removal of graffiti
   
130.54   Failure to abate
   
130.55   Delay
Medical Marijuana
   
130.70   Findings, intent, and purpose
   
130.71   Definitions
   
130.72   Prohibited conduct
   
130.73   Dispensaries and growing facilities for medical marijuana
   
130.74   Requirements for primary caregivers
   
130.75   Severability
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY PERSONS — TYPES OF UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   Any person or persons in the city who shall commit any of the following acts
shall be deemed disorderly persons:
   (A)   Incite, encourage, participate in any manner or be connected with any
rout, riot, or unlawful assemblage, or make or assist in making any noise or
disturbance which shall tend to destroy peace and good order;
   (B)   Be engaged in, or in any manner, connected with any brawl, tumult or
disorder;
   (C)   Disturb or be instrumental in disturbing any congregation or society
or other public meeting assembled for any lawful purpose; or
   (D)   Stand in crowds, or remain loitering on sidewalks, or street corners
so as to hinder or impede the passing of pedestrians, or in front of any
church, or place of worship, or in any public hall or place of amusement so as
to interfere with people lawfully going to or departing from the same;
   (E)   Be engaged in any affray, or commit any assault or assault and battery
upon another;
   (F)   Commit any act whatsoever amounting to a breach of the peace; or
   (G)   Make any indecent exposure of their person or who shall use any
indecent, immoral or profane language; or
   (H)   Show or sell, or exhibit for sale, any indecent or obscene pictures,
drawings, engravings, paints, books or pamphlets;
   (I)   Conduct, or manage or be connected with any indecent or obscene show
or exhibition of any kind;
   (J)   Enter upon the premises of any private residence after dark and look
into the windows for either idle curiosity or to frighten the occupants
thereof;
   (K)   Go about the streets and public places telling or pretending to tell
fortunes;
   (L)   Go about any street, alley or other public place wearing masks, or
with their faces otherwise covered or disguised so that their countenances
cannot be recognized; provided, however that it shall be lawful to mask on
Halloween nights and for attending masquerade parties;
   (M)   Be a common prostitute;
   (N)   Be a keeper of a bawdy house or house for the resort of prostitutes;
and
   (O)   Spit or expectorate in public places.
(Ord. 8.3, passed 3-5-58) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 FIREARMS.
   (A)   Any person who shall discharge any firearm within the corporate limits
of the city shall be deemed to be a disorderly person, except persons
discharging firearms for events exempted pursuant to division (B).
   (B)   The City Commission may grant temporary permits for the controlled use
of firearms for demonstration or contest purposes. Any such permits shall be
for a period not to exceed three days and shall be limited to specific times
and locations. The City Commission may impose conditions on any such permits,
including requirements for liability insurance or performance bonds.
(Ord. 8.3, passed 3-5-58; Am. Ord. passed 8-18-81; Am. Ord. passed 8-17-93)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 TREES, POLES, LAMP POSTS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall cut down, mutilate or destroy any shade or ornamental trees,
lamp posts, electric light poles or other property placed in the public streets
or upon any public grounds of the city, and no person shall hitch any horse or
horses or other animals liable to do injury to any such trees or other
property, and no person shall suffer or allow his horses or other animals to
stand within reach of said trees, lamp posts or electric light poles within the
city.
(Ord 13.2, effective 6-11-1895) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall wilfully, or maliciously, injure, mar, deface or
destroy any building or part of building, belonging to the city.
   (B)   No person shall wilfully, or maliciously, injure, mar, deface, remove
or destroy any personal property of any kind or nature belonging to the city.
(Ord. 8.5, passed 3-5-58) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES — OPEN CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
open container of alcoholic beverage with a consumable amount of alcoholic
beverage contained therein, upon any public street, sidewalk, or alley within
the city.
(Ord. 8.15, passed 10-7-75) Penalty, see §
130.99
SCHOOL GROUNDS
§ 130.15 SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall mark with any substance, or in any other manner deface
or do damage to any building owned, occupied, or otherwise used as a school
within the city.
   (B)   No person shall mark with any substance, or in any other manner deface
or do damage to any fence, tree, lawn, motor vehicle, or other fixture situated
on lands owned, occupied, or otherwise used by a school within the city.
(Ord. 8.14, passed 12-4-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 AIDING AND ABETTING.
   Any person who shall aid, assist or offer to commit any act prohibited by §§
130.15 et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 8.14, passed 12-4-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   No person, while on public or private grounds adjacent to any building
in which a school or any class thereof is in session, shall willfully make or
assist in the making of any noise or diversion which disturbs or tends to
disturb the peace, quiet, or good order of such school session or class
thereof.
   (B)   No person while on public or private lands adjacent to any building or
lands owned, occupied or otherwise used by a school within the city, in or on
which any gathering or function is in progress, whether in the day or
nighttime, shall willfully make or assist in the making of any noise or
diversion which disturbs or tends to disturb the peace, quiet or good order of
such gathering or function.
(Ord. 8.14, passed 12-4-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 FOUL LANGUAGE.
   (A)   No person, while in any building owned, occupied or otherwise used by
a school within the city, shall utter any profane, indecent, or immoral
language towards any person or while within the hearing of any other person.
   (B)   No person, while on any lands owned, occupied or otherwise used by a
school within the city, shall utter any profane, indecent or immoral language
towards any person or while within the hearing of any other person.
(Ord. 8.14, passed 12-4-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 PERSONS ALLOWED ON SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   (A)   No person, who is not a student required to be in attendance at that
school, a teacher, administrator, custodian or employee of the school, shall,
during school hours, remain within the school or upon school grounds without
securing the permission of the principal or person in charge of said school.
   (B)   No person, student or otherwise, shall remain upon school grounds or
within a school owned, occupied or used by any school within the City of Imlay
City, after being ordered to leave by any teacher or administrator of the
school or other person given such authority by the Board of Education
administering the school.
(Ord. 8.14, passed 12-4-73) Penalty, see §
130.99
LOITERING
§ 130.30 LOITERING OF MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or play
in, or be found upon public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, public
buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or any public
place, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day,
official city time, if such minor is under the age of 17 years; provided,
however, that the provisions of this section do not apply to a minor
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of such minor; nor where the minor is in the performance of an
errand or duty directed by such parent, guardian or custodian, nor where the
minor is returning home from any school dance or school entertainment; nor
where the legal employment of such minor makes it necessary to be upon the
streets, alleys or other public places during the night-time after the
specified hour.
(Ord. 8.9, passed 12-29-54; Am. Ord., passed 3-5-58) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.31 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, or other adult person having
the care and custody of a minor under 17 years to permit such to loiter, idle,
wander, stroll or play in, or be found upon the public streets, highways,
roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and
public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots, or any
public place, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. official city time;
provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to the
excepted class mentioned in the provisions in §
130.30.
(Ord. 8.9, passed 12-29-54; Am. Ord., passed 3-5-58) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32 RESPONSIBILITY OF BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating places of
amusement and entertainment to permit any minors to enter or remain in such
places of amusement and entertainment during the hours prohibited under this
subchapter; provided, however, that the provisions of the section do not apply
when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor.
(Ord. 8.9, passed 12-29-54) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.33 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Each violation of the provisions of §§
130.30 through
130.32 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any such minor violating the provisions of §
130.30 shall be deemed a delinquent or neglected child as defined in the
statutes of the state and shall be brought before the juvenile court having
jurisdiction over said minor. The minor shall be dealt with by the court as
provided by law.
(Ord. 8.9, passed 12-29-54)
§ 130.34 ANTI-LOITERING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is enacted to provide for the safe, convenient
and lawful use of public streets, sidewalks and right-of-ways for all people
visiting or living within the community and to provide for the safe, convenient
and lawful use of private properties by the owners or renters or other
authorized users thereof.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public, and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
   (C)   Acts prohibited. No person, firm, corporation or entity shall:
      (1)   Collect or stand in crowds or arrange, encourage or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
public place;
      (2)   Loiter on any street, sidewalk or in any park or public building or
conduct himself in any public place so as to obstruct the free and
uninterrupted passage of the public;
      (3)   Willfully enter upon the lands or premises of another without
lawful authority, after having been forbidden to do so by the owner or
occupant, agent or servant of the owner or occupant or when upon the land or
premises of another upon being notified to depart there from by the owner or
occupant, agent or servant of either, without lawful authority, neglects or
refuses to depart therefrom.
      (4)   Unlawfully riot, affray, assemble or make or assist in making, any
improper noise or disturbance of the public peace, or collect or stand in
crowds so as to willfully interfere with free and uninterrupted passage of any
person in a public place.
(Ord. 8.16, passed 9-2-80; Am. Ord.8.16A, passed 7-21-87) Penalty, see §
130.99
GRAFFITI
§ 130.50 FINDINGS.
   The city finds that graffiti is detrimental to property values; degrades the
community; causes an increase in crime; is inconsistent with the city's
property maintenance goals and aesthetic standards; is obnoxious; is a
nuisance; and, unless it is quickly removed from public and private properties,
results in other properties becoming the target of graffiti.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 130.51 DEFINITIONS.
      For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. The act of altering or defacing any real personal property of
another without their consent through the use of paint, markers, spray paint,
objects, or substances capable of destroying property; or is the act of
altering or defacing any real or personal property through the use of paint,
spray paint, markers, objects or other substances capable of destroying
property, which is offensive to a reasonably sensitive person.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. An aerosol paint container, a felt tip marker, gum
label, paint stick, etching tool, adhesive label, or any other device capable
of being used to leave a visible mark at least one-eighth of an inch in width
upon any surface or material.
   PROPERTY CARETAKER. A person owning, leasing, occupying, or having control
or possession of any property within the city.
   STRUCTURE. Any improvement to real property and shall include but not be
limited to walls, sidewalks, windows, fixtures, sheds, storage units, semi-
tractor trailers, mobile storage, or masonry.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 130.52 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, through or by the use of any graffiti implement, alter or
deface any structure within the city.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.53 REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI.
   Whenever it is determined that graffiti exists on property which is visible
to a member of the public, the Zoning Administrator shall serve notice to the
property caretaker to abate such graffiti. The party so noticed shall have ten
days after the date the notice is served to remove the graffiti. The notice
shall be sent to the property occupant (if any) and to the shown address of any
person on the tax roll by first class mail. In addition, a notice may also be
given by posting the site where the graffiti exists.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 130.54 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   If the property caretaker fails to abate, cover, or remove the graffiti
after being served within the ten-day notice, the city or their authorized
agents shall have the authority to enter said premises for the removal of the
graffiti with all costs being paid by the caretaker. All costs shall be paid by
the property caretaker within 30 days from the date of the notice of assessment
issued by the City, plus an administrative expense as determined by resolution
of the City Commission. The notice of assessment shall specify the work that
was done, including the itemized and total cost of the work. Any assessments
which are not paid shall be assessed on the next tax billing for the property.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 130.55 DELAY.
   If weather conditions or other factors determined by the Zoning
Administrator are sufficient enough to warrant a delay in the abatement, a
refundable bond or satisfactory guarantee of a sufficient amount to ensure the
abatement of all graffiti shall be required to ensure abatement takes place
within a reasonable period of time as specified in writing by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 21, passed 5-18-2010)
MEDICAL MARIJUANA
§ 130.70 FINDINGS, INTENT, AND PURPOSE CHAPTER.
   The city adopts this chapter based on the following findings:
   (A)   In 2008, the voters of the state (with an approval by city voters of
58%) adopted by initiative election a statute authorizing the limited use,
growing, and distribution of marijuana for certain medical conditions.
   (B)   The stated intent of the statute approved by the voters was to enable
certain specified persons who comply with the registration provisions of the
law to legally obtain, possess, grow, use, and distribute marijuana and to
assist specifically registered individuals identified in the statute without
fear of criminal prosecution under limited, specific circumstances.
   (C)   Despite the provisions of the medical marijuana legislation, marijuana
is still a controlled substance under state law and the limited legalization of
medical marijuana has a potential for abuse that should be closely monitored
and to the extent permissible regulated by local authorities.
   (D)   Pursuant to the rules adopted (R 333.125) under the state Medical
Marijuana Act, additional felony penalties apply to any caregiver who is
convicted of distributing marijuana to someone not allowed to use marijuana for
medical purposes.
   (E)   It is the intention of the city that nothing in this chapter be
construed to allow persons to engage in conduct that endangers others or causes
a public nuisance, or to allow the use, possession, growing, distribution, or
consumption of marijuana for non-medical purposes that is otherwise illegal.
This chapter is not intended to condone, authorize, or provide immunity from
prosecution for violations of state or federal law, but rather only to describe
the type of conduct which constitutes a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   It is the purpose of this chapter to impose specific requirements for
those individuals registering with the state as “qualifying patients” or
“primary caregivers” as those terms are defined by M.C.L.A. 333.26421, the
state Medical Marijuana Act, and to regulate the conduct of activity pursuant
thereto so as to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 22, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 130.71 DEFINITIONS.
   The definition of words and terms used in this chapter shall be the
definitions contained in the state Medical Marijuana Act, M.C.L.A. 333.26421 et
seq. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall also
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISPENSARY. Any location providing medical marijuana to qualified patients.
(Ord. 22, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 130.72 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Medical marijuana compensation restrictions. No person shall receive
or share in compensation for the costs associated with assisting a qualifying
patient with the medical use of marijuana to a qualifying patient except for a
registered caregiver who is distributing marijuana to a qualifying patient that
the registered caregiver is connected to through the state Department of
Community Health's registration process, and the transaction is otherwise in
compliance with the state Medical Marijuana Act. No qualifying patient shall
receive compensation for costs associated with assisting other qualifying
patients with the medical use of marijuana unless the qualifying patient
providing the assistance is a registered primary caregiver connected to the
qualifying patient receiving the marijuana through the state Department of
Community Health's registration process, and the transaction is otherwise in
accordance with the state Medical Marijuana Act.
   (B)   Medical marijuana possession limits.
      (1)   No primary caregiver or qualifying patient shall possess marijuana
or marijuana plants in excess of the amount he or she is allowed to possess
under M.C.L.A. 333.26424(b). No more than five patients shall be connected to
or served by a single caregiver.
      (2)   The possession limits for a registered caregiver under the state
Medical Marijuana Act are as follows:
         (a)   2.5 ounces of usable marijuana for each qualifying patient that
is connected to the caregiver.
         (b)   12 marijuana plants kept in an enclosed, locked facility, for
each registered qualifying patient who has specified that the qualified
caregiver will be allowed to cultivate marijuana for the qualifying patient.
         (c)   Any incidental amount of seeds, stalks, and usable roots.
      (3)   The possession limits for a qualifying patient under the state
Medical Marijuana Act are as follows:
         (1)   2.5 ounces of usable marijuana.
         (2)   12 marijuana plants kept in an enclosed, locked facility,
provided that the qualifying patient has not specified that a primary caregiver
will be allowed to cultivate marijuana for the qualifying patient.
         (3)   Any incidental amount of seeds, stalks, and unusable roots shall
also be allowed under state law and shall not be included in this amount.
   (C)   Entity restrictions. The following entities are expressly prohibited
from receiving compensation for costs associated with assisting a registered
qualifying patient in the medical use of marijuana: corporations, limited
liability companies, and partnerships, or any other entity other than an
individual registered caregiver.
   (D)   Common facilities restrictions. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to participate as a registered primary caregiver in a
jointly operated facility where primary caregivers jointly share building space
which is used in common to assist more than five qualifying patients with the
medical use of marijuana. Use “in common,” as that phrase is used in this
subdivision, shall include a shared or common reception area or shared or
common customer service area.
   (E)   Restrictions against delegation of caregiver functions. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for a primary caregiver to delegate to an employee or
other person not independently and specifically authorized by the state Medical
Marijuana Act to provide assistance with the medical use of marijuana to the
specific qualifying patient.
   (F)   Continued illegality of non-medical marijuana. The sale, distribution,
cultivation, possession, and use of marijuana or marijuana plants is prohibited
to the extent it is in violation of the state Medical Marijuana Act or other
state statutes.
   (G)   No medical marijuana caregiver or patient shall:
      (1)   Undertake any task under the influence of marijuana, when doing so
would constitute negligence or professional malpractice.
      (2)   Possess or engage in the use of medical marijuana:
         (a)   In a school bus;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school;
      (3)   Smoke marijuana in any public place.
      (4)   Operate or be in actual physical control of any motor vehicle while
under the influence of marijuana.
(Ord. 22, passed 10-19-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.73 DISPENSARIES AND GROWING FACILITIES FOR MEDICAL MARIJUANA.
   It shall be unlawful for any “primary caregiver,” as defined by the state
Medical Marijuana Act, to dispense or grow medical marijuana within any retail
store, storefront, office building, manufacturing building, processing
facility, any other type of commercial or industrial building, any apartment
building, or any residential apartment located within the city. Such activities
shall only be carried out within single-family residences where the caregiver
resides.
(Ord. 22, passed 10-19-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.74 REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIMARY CAREGIVERS.
   A person who has been issued a state registration identification card as a
“primary caregiver” and who conducts medical marijuana operations within the
city shall:
   (A)   Comply with all applicable statutes, including the state Medical
Marijuana Act;
   (B)   Have hours of operation which do not extend beyond 8:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m., Monday through Saturday;
   (C)   Register with the City Clerk, on a form provided by the city, the
location from which the primary caregiver will be raising or distributing
medical marijuana.
(Ord. 22, passed 10-19-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.75 SEVERABILITY.
   Sections of this chapter shall be deemed severable and should any section,
clause, or provision of this chapter be declared to be invalid, the same shall
not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other
than the part so declared to be invalid.
(Ord. 22, passed 10-19-2010)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter to which no specific penalty applies shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
130.03 -
130.33 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each
infraction. Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased
fines as provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
   (C)   Any person, individual, firm, or corporation who violates or refuses
to comply with any provision of this §§
130.50 through
130.55, or any lawful order of the city or their authorized agent issued in
pursuance of §§
130.50 through
130.55 shall be guilty of a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil infraction fine of not less than $100, plus costs and other sanctions for
each infraction. Repeat offenses under §§
130.50 through
130.55 shall be subject to increased fines as provided for in the city code of
ordinances.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of §§
130.70 through
130.75 shall be deemed responsible for violating a municipal civil infraction
and shall, upon finding thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than $500,
plus court costs and costs of prosecution at the discretion of the Court. Each
day that a violation occurs shall be considered a separate offense. The city
may also seek injunctive relief, in which case the violator shall be
responsible for all attorney fees, expert fees, and all other costs incurred by
the city in enforcing §§
130.70 through
130.75.
(Ord. 8.3, passed 3-5-58; Ord. 8.5, passed 3-5-58; Ord. 8.14, passed 12-4-73;
Am. Ord. 8.21, passed 3-21-95; Am. Ord. 21, passed 5-18-2010; Am. Ord. 22,
passed 10-19-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
152.   LAND DIVISION
      
153.   FLOOD CONTROL
      
154.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
Code Enforcement
   
150.01   Enforcement of Building, Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing Codes
Rental Dwelling Code
   
150.30   General provisions
   
150.31   Minimum standards for dwellings, basic equipment, facilities and
outbuildings
   
150.32   Minimum standards for electrical service
   
150.33   Minimum standards for plumbing service
   
150.34   Minimum standards for heating
   
150.35   Residential garbage and rubbish storage and disposal
   
150.36   Minimum space, use and location requirements
   
150.37   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
150.38   General requirements and responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
150.39   Administration and enforcement
   
150.40   Registration compliance and enforcement
   
150.41   Housing Board of Appeals
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.65   Short title
   
150.66   Dangerous building guidelines
   
150.67   Public nuisance
   
150.68   Personnel with right of entry
   
150.69   Violations
   
150.70   Notice on buildings
   
150.71   Hearing
   
150.72   Compliance
   
150.73   Failure to comply
   
150.74   Expenses incurred by city
   
150.75   Tax roll assessment
 
   
150.99   Penalty
CODE ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.01 ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING, MECHANICAL, ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING CODES.
   (A)   Building Code Enforcement. The city is hereby designated the enforcing
agency in the city for the Michigan Building, Residential and Energy Codes as
promulgated by the Michigan Construction Code Commission, pursuant to Public
Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended.
   (B)   Mechanical Code Enforcement. The city is hereby designated the
enforcing agency in the city for the Michigan Mechanical Code as promulgated by
the Michigan Construction Code Commission, pursuant to Public Act 230 of 1972,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended.
   (C)   Plumbing Code Enforcement. The city is hereby designated the enforcing
agency in the city for the Michigan Plumbing Code as promulgated by the
Michigan Construction Code Commission, pursuant to Public Act 230 of 1972,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended.
   (D)   Electrical Code Enforcement. The city is hereby designated the
enforcing agency in the city for the Michigan Electrical Code as promulgated by
the Michigan Construction Code Commission, pursuant to Public Act 230 of 1972,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended.
   (E)   Inspectors/Enforcement Officers. The City Commission shall utilize
appropriately qualified individuals to serve as inspectors and enforcement
officers for the Codes. The City Commission shall, by motion, designate such
agencies or individual inspectors and enforcement officers as it shall choose.
All inspectors and enforcement officers are authorized to issue appearance
tickets for violations of the Codes.
   (F)   Fees and Bonds. All fees for permits, bonds and inspections required
pursuant to the enforcement of the Codes shall be those established. by motion
of the City Commission.
(Ord. 7.5, passed 12-18-01) Penalty, see §
150.99
RENTAL DWELLING CODE
§ 150.30 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of §§
150.30 through
150.41 is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the city
by establishing minimum standards for rental dwellings, to provide for the
elimination of overcrowding, to provide standards for sanitary conditions in
and around structures used for human habitation, to determine the
responsibilities of owners and occupants of rental dwellings and to provide for
the administration and enforcement of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41 shall apply to any person owning, occupying, managing or controlling any
rental dwellings in the city.
   (C)   Compliance. All rental dwellings shall comply with the standards set
forth in §§
150.30 through
150.41.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of §§
150.30 through
150.41, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Any building or structure, other than a rental
dwelling, which is located on the same premises as the rental dwelling.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The City Manager or authorized representatives charged
with the responsibility of administering and enforcing §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      ANNIVERSARY DATE. The date by which the requirements for application,
inspection, and certification for the annual rental inspection shall have been
met.
      APPROACH. An area improved for vehicular traffic within a public street
right-of-way which connects the traveled portion of the street with a driveway.
      BASEMENT.  That portion of a building which is partly below and partly
above grade and which has at least one-half of its height below grade.
      BASIC STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS. The parts of a building which provide the
principal strength, stability, integrity, shape and safety, including, but not
limited to, plates, studs, joists, rafters, stringers, stairs, subflooring,
flooring, sheathing, lathing, roofing, siding, window frames, door frames,
porches, railings, eaves, chimneys, flashing, masonry and all other essential
components.
      BOARDING HOUSE.  Any dwelling occupied in any such manner that certain
rooms in excess of those used by members of the family, as hereinafter
provided, and occupied as a home or family and are leased or rented to persons
outside of the family, without any attempt provided there or therewith for
cooking or kitchen accommodations.
      BUILDING MATERIALS. Includes, but is not limited to, lumber, bricks,
concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electrical wiring or equipment,
heating ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails,
screws, fence posts and fencing.
      CEILING HEIGHT. The clear vertical distance from the finished floor to
the finished ceiling.
      CELLAR. That portion of a building which has at least one-half of its
height below grade.
      CITY. The Municipal corporation that is the City of Imlay City and
includes all authorized agents of the City when acting within the scope of
their authority.
      DETERIORATION or DETERIORATED. The fact or process of decay or
degeneration which has progressed to the point where it has resulted in or will
soon result in making a structure, object, or mechanism unsafe, unsanitary,
inoperable, unusable, or unsuitable for its intended use, including, but not
limited to, the advanced stages of rot, rust, mold, insect ingestion,
infestation, or destruction.
      DRIVEWAY. A passageway for motor vehicles over private property, leading
from a street or alley to a garage or parking spaces. The driveway must be at
least 10 feet wide, and shall not exceed 12 feet in width.
      DWELLING. Any structure, including the yard or part thereof, used for
residential purposes, whether occupied or not.
      DWELLING UNIT.  A single room or rooms providing complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
      DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for and occupied
exclusively by one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by
two families living independently of each other.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or a portion thereof, designed
exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living independently of
each other.
      EMERGENCY. A condition of imminent danger calling for immediate action to
avoid death, injury, or illness to a human or the destruction or severe damage
of real or personal property.
      EXIT. That portion of a means of egress which is separate from all other
spaces of a building or structure by construction or equipment.
      EXIT ACCESS. That portion of a means of egress which leads to an entrance
to an exit.
      EXIT DISCHARGE. That portion of egress between the termination of an exit
and a public way.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by any other recognized and legal pest eliminative methods
approved by the Housing Code Official.
      FAMILY. An individual or a group of two or more persons related by birth,
adoption, or marriage, together with not more than two additional persons not
related by blood, marriage or adoption, living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling.
      FINISH SURFACES. Material used for the final covering of basic structural
elements. FINISH SURFACES include, but are not limited to, ceilings, walls,
wainscoting, kickboards, moldings, stops and floor coverings.
      FIRE HAZARD. A condition which may cause loss, damage, or injury to
persons or property by reason of fire, explosion, or action of the elements.
      FURRED CEILING. Any ceiling which is installed below the joists which
constitute the structural framing of the floor/ceiling assembly or attic floor
above.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
      GRADE. A reference plane representing the average of finished ground
level adjoining the building at all exterior walls.
      GOOD REPAIR. Properly installed, safe, stable and maintained sufficiently
free of defects or deterioration so as to be in compliance with the applicable
codes, set forth in §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      GUEST ROOM. Any room or rooms used, or intended to be used, by a guest
for sleeping purposes.
      HABITABLE FLOOR AREA. The net floor area within the enclosing walls of
the room excluding built-in equipment such as wardrobes, cabinets, kitchen
units, or fixtures that is in compliance with the required minimum ceiling
height for a habitable room area.
      HABITABLE ROOM. Any room within a structure for living, sleeping, eating
or cooking. (Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
spaces and similar areas are not considered habitable rooms.)
      HARDSHIP. Any factor deemed by the Housing Board of Appeals to permit
variation from the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      HOTEL/MOTEL. Any building containing six or more guest rooms, intended or
designed to be used, or which are used, rented or hired out to be occupied or
which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.
      HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. Individuals living together in a dwelling unit.
      HOUSING CODE OFFICIAL or HOUSING OFFICIAL. The rental inspector
designated by the City Manager to oversee the enforcement of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around the dwelling, of any birds,
rodents, cockroaches, fleas, lice, bedbugs, or vermin.
      INSPECTOR. A housing inspector or any other employee of the city whose
responsibilities include enforcement of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      INTERIOR FIXTURES. Those interior items and hardware which provide
customary finished amenities and protection within a dwelling. INTERIOR
FIXTURES include, but are not limited to, doors, door knobs, latches, locks,
hinges, handles, hooks, light fixtures, electrical outlets or switch cover
plates, vents or opening grates, railings, shelving, cabinetry and mirrors.
      JUNK. Includes any abandoned, discarded, unusable, or unused objects or
equipment including, but not limited to, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
freezers, cans, implements, parts of motor vehicles, machinery, cloth, rubber,
bottles, any metals, boxes, cartons, or crates.
      MEANS OF EGRESS. A continuous and unobstructed path of travel from any
point in a building or structure to a public way, and consisting of three
separate and distinct parts:
         (a)   The exit access,
         (b)   The exit, and
         (c)   The exit discharge.
A MEANS OF EGRESS comprises the vertical and horizontal means of travel and
shall include intervening room spaces, doors, hallways, corridors, passageways,
balconies, ramps, stairs, enclosures, lobbies, escalators, horizontal exits,
courts, and yard.
      NATURAL PERSON. A human being.
      NUISANCE.
         (a)   Any public nuisance known at common law or equity.
         (b)   Any condition which might attract, and be dangerous to children,
whether in a dwelling, on the premises upon which a dwelling is located, or
upon an unoccupied lot near or on the premises upon which a dwelling is
located, or upon an unoccupied lot near a dwelling. This includes, but is not
limited to, abandoned wells, cisterns, shafts, basements, excavations,
abandoned refrigerators and motor vehicles or parts thereof; structurally
unsound fences, outbuildings or structures; lumber, rubbish, fences, debris,
vegetation, mounds of gravel, sand or earth which might prove a hazard for
inquisitive minors, and whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental
to health.
         (c)   Overcrowding a room with occupants.
         (d)   Lack of adequate egress.
         (e)   Insufficient ventilation or illumination.
         (f)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities.
2004 S-12
         (g)   Improper disposal of garbage and rubbish.
         (h)   Whatever renders air, food, or drink unwholesome or detrimental
to health, as determined by the Housing Official.
         (I)   Insufficient support, inadequate sewage drainage, heating or
wiring.
      OCCUPANCY or OCCUPY. The fact or act of a human being living or sleeping
in a dwelling or unit within a dwelling, whether the human being is physically
present or temporarily absent.
      OPEN WINDOW AREA. The resulting square footage of open space to the
outdoors when a window has been opened to its maximum distance as measured
clear of the sash frame.
      OWNER or OWNERSHIP. Any person holding legal or equitable title to a
property or to real improvements upon a property solely, jointly, by the
entireties, in common or as a land contract vendee. OWNER also shall mean any
person who in fact has been empowered to act on behalf of, or as the agent  of,
the owner and also shall mean any person who has or exercises care, custody,
dominion or control over any property.
      PARKING SPACE. An area used for the purpose of parking a single motor
vehicle. A parking space shall be no less than 10 feet in width and 22 feet in
length.
      PERSON. A natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
      PREMISES. Any improved or unimproved lot or parcel of land and its
buildings and structures.
      REMOTE EXIT. A required exit providing a protected way of travel to an
exit discharge which is as far removed as practical from the sleeping area.
      RENTAL DWELLING. A dwelling containing dwelling units which are leased or
rented that is not owner occupied, including consumer housing cooperatives and
limited dividend housing corporations as defined in M.C.L.A. § 125.1411.
      RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling unit rented or leased.
      RESPONSIBLE LOCAL AGENT. A person having his place of residence or
principal place of business in the city, who is legally responsible for
operating a dwelling in compliance with all the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY.   Any person, including but not limited to owner, land
contract holder, land contract vendee, tenant or responsible agent, who has the
responsibility to construct and/or maintain a dwelling in compliance with §§
150.30 through
150.41. The name and address of the responsible party shall be determined from
information placed on file with the Assessor's Office, Treasurer's Office, and/
or County Register of Deeds Office.
      ROOMER. A person who is provided with living and sleeping quarters within
a rooming dwelling.
      ROOMING DWELLING. A dwelling containing rooming units.
      ROOMING UNIT. A room or group of rooms located within a rooming dwelling
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage;
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke,
and other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, etc.
      RUBBISH CONTAINER. A watertight container with tight fitting lid for the
temporary storage of garbage and rubbish that is constructed of metal, or other
durable material impervious to rodents, that is capable of being serviced
without creating unsanitary conditions.
      SANITARY. Free of grease, excrement, dirt, food residue, garbage, rust or
similar matter which can harbor bacteria unsafe to humans or animals, or which
produces strong odors or which provides food for, or is an available source of
food for animals or insects.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
permanent location on the ground.
      UNFIT DWELLING. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit, in whole or
in part, which shall be found to have any of the following defects:
         (a)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary,
unsafe or vermin infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or
safety of the occupants or to the public.
         (b)   One which lacks light, ventilation, heating, or sanitation
facilities adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the
public as prescribed by the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
         (c)   One which does not include a stove or other cooking facilities,
a refrigerator, or space for dry food storage; except, however, where said
facilities are not required by §§
150.30 through
150.41 for a particular type of dwelling unit.
         (d)   One which exposes or could expose the occupants to dangerous
levels of air pollution from carbon monoxide, sewer gas, fuel gas, dust, or
other harmful pollutants.
         (e)   One which, because of its location, exposes or could expose the
occupants to serious adverse environmental conditions, natural or manmade, such
as dangerous walks, steps, instability, flooding, poor drainage, septic tank
backups, sewage hazards, mudslides, or excessive noise, vibration or vehicular
traffic.
      UNSAFE. A condition which is reasonably likely to do harm to humans or
property if not corrected or stopped.
      VERMIN. Rodents, birds and insects which may be destructive of real or
personal property or injurious to health.
      WINDOW AREA. The area of the glazing of a window through which light
passes, including the area taken up by window pane dividers.
      YARD. All parts of a piece of property lying between a dwelling
foundation and the property lines, as well as that portion of public property
or a right-of-way lying between that piece of property and the street curb or
pavement or lying between the piece of property and the centerline of an alley.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-02; Am. Ord. 7.3, passed 7-15-
03) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.31 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR DWELLINGS, BASIC EQUIPMENT, FACILITIES AND
OUTBUILDINGS.
   (A)   Basic Structural Elements.  Basic structural elements shall be in good
repair and shall be adequate to support the imposed load as required by §§
150.30 through
150.41.
   (B)   General. The exterior of a rental structure shall be maintained in
good repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
   (C)   Protective Treatment.  All exterior surfaces, including but not
limited to, doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies,
decks and fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces,
other than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and
decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking
and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and
masonry joints, as well as those between the building envelope and the
perimeter of windows, doors, and skylights shall be maintained, weather
resistant and watertight. All metal services subject to rust or corrosion shall
be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or
corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit further rust and corrosion.
Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for
stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (D)   Structural Members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (E)   Foundation Walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained free from
open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to prevent the
entry of rodents and other pests.
   (F)   Exterior Walls.  All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
and loose or rotting materials, and maintained weatherproof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   (G)   Roofs and Drainage.  The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   (H)   Decorative Features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (I)   Overhang Extensions. All overhang extensions, including but not
limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes,
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (J)   Stairways, Decks, Porches and Balconies.  Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structural sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and capable
of supporting the imposed loads.
   (K)   Chimneys and Towers.  All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (L)   Handrails and Guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (M)   Window, Skylights and Doorframes. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
   (N)   Glazing.  All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
   (O)   Doors.  All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming
units and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door.
   (P)   Basement Hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (Q)   Guards for Basement Windows.  Every basement window that is openable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
   (R)   Drains. All rain water shall be so drained and conveyed from every
roof so as not to cause dampness in the walls, ceiling or floors of any
habitable room, or of any bathroom or water closet compartment.
   (S)   Means of Egress Generally.
      (1)   All means of egress from any point in a dwelling to a public way
shall be maintained in good repair, available for immediate use and free of all
obstructions.
      (2)   All egress doors shall open from the side in which egress is made
without the use of a key or special knowledge or effort when the building or
area is occupied.
      (3)   All interior exit stairway doors shall be openable from either
side.
   (T)   Emergency Escape Required. All sleeping rooms in a dwelling unit or a
rooming unit below the fourth story shall have a minimum of one operable window
or exterior door approved for emergency egress or rescue in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Where windows are provided as a means of egress or rescue the sill
height shall not exceed 44 inches above the floor.
      (2)   Bars, grills, or screens placed over emergency escape windows shall
be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool, or
excessive force.
      (3)   An emergency escape or window is not required in a one- or two-
family dwelling when a door of a sleeping room discharges directly to a public
way.
      (4)   All locking devices on exterior doors shall be properly installed
and in good repair. All doors which provide entry to rental dwellings from a
common hall shall be provided with a properly installed locking device in good
repair without interior keyed locks or dead bolts.
   (U)   Interior Fixtures. All interior fixtures shall be in good repair.
   (V)   Interior Surfaces.
      (1)   All floors in any room where any water faucet is present shall be
protected by some unbroken waterproof or water-resistant covering such as
paint, tile, linoleum, or carpet.
      (2)   Any wall in a dwelling unit or rooming unit in which a water faucet
is present shall be made of some waterproof material or shall be completely
covered by some waterproof or water-resistant coating or covering. Such coating
or covering shall be in good repair.
   (W)   Paint Chips.  Paint chips lying on the floor of dwelling or lying on
the ground around an occupied dwelling shall be deemed unsafe and shall be
removed by the responsible party.
   (X)   Bathroom Facilities for Dwelling Units.  Every dwelling unit shall
contain a toilet, a lavatory sink, and a bathtub or shower. All such facilities
shall be in good repair and shall be located within a completely enclosed room
or rooms.
   (Y)   Bathroom Facilities for Rooming Units.  At least one water closet,
lavatory and bathtub or shower shall be provided for each eight roomers, or
portion thereof. All such facilities shall be in good repair and:
      (1)   Located in a completely enclosed room or rooms affording privacy
which is separate from the habitable rooms;
      (2)   Are accessible, from a common hall or passageway, to all roomers
sharing such facilities without going outside of the dwelling; and
      (3)   Such facilities are not more than one store removed from the
roomer's rooming unit.
   (Z)   Kitchen Facilities Required. Every dwelling unit shall have a kitchen
or kitchenette. A kitchen or kitchenette shall have a sink, cabinets, and
counter or table, all of which shall be in good repair.
   (AA)   Kitchen Appliances Required.  Every occupied dwelling unit shall
contain a stove, an oven, and a refrigerator, maintained in good repair.
   (BB)   Prohibited Location of Kitchen Facilities. Kitchens, kitchenettes or
kitchen facilities shall not be permitted in rooming units.
   (CC)   Cooking. Food prepared or cooked indoors shall be done only in a
kitchen or a kitchenette or an area approved by the city's Mechanical Inspector
or Fire Official.
   (DD)   Maintenance of Facilities. All materials, fixtures, equipment,
appliances, or facilities required by §§
150.30 through
150.41 or otherwise present in a dwelling shall be in good repair.
   (EE)   Smoke Detectors Required. A minimum of one single station smoke
detector shall be provided and maintained in good repair for each bedroom area
of a dwelling unit or rooming unit and every level of a dwelling.
   (FF)   Maintenance of Utilities, Required Facilities and Services. No
person, except as provided in this section, shall cause any of the following
utilities, services, facilities, or equipment to be shutoff, disconnected,
removed or otherwise terminated or interrupted when the utility, service,
facility or equipment is being furnished to or used by another person:
      (1)   Water service;
      (2)   Sewage service;
      (3)   Fuel supply;
      (4)   Heating equipment or facilities;
      (5)   Ventilation or air conditioning facilities or equipment;
      (6)   Hot water facilities or equipment;
      (7)   Electrical facilities or equipment; or
      (8)   Garbage pick-up service.
   (GG)   Infestation. Every dwelling shall be kept free of uncaged rodents,
uncaged birds, cockroaches, fleas, lice, bedbugs or vermin.
   (HH)   Sanitation.  All rooms, room surfaces, systems, fixtures, facilities,
equipment, appliances, and furnishings shall be kept in a sanitary condition.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-02; Am. Ord. 7.3, passed 10-3-
06) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.32 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Electrical System Required. Every dwelling shall have an electrical
system, components and safety devices which are properly installed and in good
repair.
   (B)   Electrical System Inspection. If visual inspection by the Housing Code
Official reveals that the wiring system of an existing dwelling unit is
inadequate, or if code certification for any reason is required or requested,
the following minimum standards shall be complied with:
      (1)   Entrances and Exits. Where two or more entrances and/or exits
exist, at least two shall be illuminated by exterior lights. Exterior lights
shall be controlled by interior wall switches, located for convenient and
readily accessible use.
      (2)   Living Room. The living room shall be provided with a conveniently
located wall switch controlled light or receptacle. The switched receptacle may
be one of the required receptacles in the room. Duplex receptacles shall be
equally spaced around the walls of the room, one duplex receptacle on each
wall; unless the spacing is more than 12 feet.
      (3)   Kitchen. The kitchen shall be provided with illumination. The
required illumination shall be controlled by a wall switch located for
convenient and readily accessible use. A separate kitchen appliance circuit
shall be provided, supplying a minimum of three grounding-type duplex
receptacle outlets. Two of these receptacles shall be readily accessible and
spaced for convenient use of portable appliances. New appliance circuits shall
be 20 ampere capacity.
      (4)   Bathroom. The bathroom shall be provided with illumination,
controlled by a conveniently located wall switch. A receptacle separate from a
light fixture shall be provided. The receptacle shall be at least 30 inches and
not more than 48 inches above the floor, adjacent to the wash basin and not
more than 48 inches from the basin.
      (5)   All Other Habitable Rooms. Habitable rooms shall be provided with a
conveniently located wall switch controlled light or receptacle. A minimum of
two additional duplex receptacles are required, equally spaced around the room.
      (6)   Basement. The basement shall have a minimum of one lighting outlet
in each 200 square feet or major fraction of area for general illumination. All
enclosed areas that may be walked into, (except coal bins) shall be provided
with a lighting outlet.
      (7)   Laundry Area. Areas shall be provided with illumination. This light
shall be permitted to be connected to the laundry circuit. A wall-mounted
grounding-type duplex receptacle shall be provided adjacent to the laundry
equipment, on a separate circuit. New laundry circuits shall be 20 ampere
capacity.
      (8)   Spacing Heating System. Heating equipment that requires electricity
for operation of any facet shall be provided with an individual circuit. A
disconnect switch shall be provided on or adjacent to the equipment.
(Exception: Thermo-pile controlled furnaces.)
      (9)   Stairwells. Stairwells shall be adequately illuminated. Lighting
outlets shall be controlled by wall switches. Wall switches shall be located
for convenient and readily accessible use. Switches shall not be located where
it is necessary to use darkened stair sections for their operation. Stairwells
connecting finished portions of dwellings shall be provided multiple-switch
control: one at the head, the other at the foot of the stairwell.
      (10)   Service and/or Feeder. The service or feeder to an existing
dwelling unit shall be a minimum of three-wire, 100 ampere capacity. Service
equipment shall be dead front, having no live parts exposed whereby accidental
contact could be made. All plug type fuses shall be Type S. Exception: An
existing properly installed 55 ampere capacity, three-wire service and feeders
of 30 ampere, two-wire are acceptable if adequate for the load being served.
      (11)   Existing Wiring and Equipment. Existing wiring and equipment shall
be in good repair. Circuit extensions made with flexible cord wiring in lieu of
permanent wiring shall be eliminated.
   (C)   Evidence of Electrical System Inadequacy. Any of the following shall
be considered evidence of inadequacy:
      (1)   Use of cords in lieu of permanent wiring.
      (2)   Oversizing of overcurrent protection for circuits, feeders or
service.
      (3)   Unapproved extensions to the wiring system in order to provide
light, heat or power.
      (4)   Electrical overload.
      (5)   Misuse of electrical equipment.
      (6)   Lack of lighting fixtures in the bathrooms, laundry room, furnace
room, stairway or basement.
   (D)   Joint Use Lighting Area. Every hallway, stairway, entryway and joint
use area within a dwelling containing three or more dwelling or rooming units
shall be lighted at all times.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.33 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR PLUMBING SERVICE.
   (A)   Water System Required. Every dwelling shall have a water system which
is in good repair and free of leaks. The water system shall connect each sink,
water closet, basin, bathtub, or shower facility present in the dwelling to a
public water supply or to a private water supply approved by the city.
   (B)   Hot and Cold Water Supply. Every sink, basin, bathtub, or shower
facility required by §§
150.30 through
150.41 shall be properly connected with both hot and cold water lines. The hot
water lines shall be connected to and supplied from an approved hot water
source which is properly installed and maintained in a safe and good working
condition. The water system shall be sized to supply hot water at a minimum
temperature to outlets of 110 degrees Fahrenheit but not exceeding 120 degrees
Fahrenheit to meet both daily requirements and hourly peak loads of the
occupants of the building.
   (C)   Sewer System Required. Every dwelling shall have a sewage disposal
system which is in good repair and free of leaks. A sewage disposal system
shall connect each sink, water closet, basin, bathtub, shower, and floor drain
to a public sanitary or combined sewer or to a private sewage disposal system
approved by the city.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.34 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR HEATING.
   (A)   Heating System Required. Every dwelling shall have a heating system.
Every heating system shall be properly installed, in good repair and free of
leaks and obstructions.
   (B)   Heat Supply. Every heating system shall provide sufficient heat to
maintain a temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit in every bathroom and required
habitable room, as measured three feet above the floor.
   (C)   Heat. Where the heat regulator of a heating system is not within the
direct control of the occupant, the owner or responsible party shall be
responsible for maintaining the temperature within all habitable rooms and
bathrooms of occupied units at or above 68 degrees Fahrenheit, as measured
three feet above the floor.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.35 RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE AND RUBBISH STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Garbage/Rubbish.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of every dwelling to
provide garbage/rubbish removal service a minimum of once weekly.
      (2)   Every occupant of a dwelling regulated by §§
150.30 through
150.41 shall dispose of all his garbage/rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner
by placing it in the rubbish facility provided by the owner.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to assure that garbage/
rubbish containers with lids are provided for all one-family and two-family
rental dwellings.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply a dumpster
for all multiple family rental dwellings.
         (a)   The dumpster shall be of a size and type approved by the Health
Officer.
         (b)   The dumpster shall be located within the side or rear yard and
shall be screened by an obscuring barrier from the public view.
         (c)   The obscuring barrier shall be not more than eight feet above
ground level and shall always be at least one foot above the height of the
dumpster.
         (d)   The obscuring barrier shall be constructed of materials which
are durable, weather resistant, rust proof, fire-resistant, and shall be
maintained in good condition by the owner or responsible party.
         (e)   All obscuring barriers shall meet the requirements for wind
pressure provided for in Section 1513 of the Imlay City Zoning Ordinance.
         (f)   Wood or wood products when utilized, shall be treated and/or
painted and shall be so maintained at all times. Chain link or other wire fence
utilizing metal, plastic, or wood slats, shall not be considered an obscuring
barrier for the purpose of this section.
         (g)   No obscuring barrier shall be used as a sign or otherwise for
advertising purposes.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.36 MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Habitable Rooms Required. Every dwelling shall have one or more
habitable rooms which together contain the habitable floor area required by §
150.36(B).
   (B)   Habitable Floor Area Required.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for each occupant. In no case shall any private dwelling
be occupied which does not contain at least 480 square feet of habitable room
area, nor shall it exceed the occupancy set forth by the §
150.01 of this code.
      (2)   Every rooming unit occupied by one occupant in a rooming dwelling
shall contain at least 80 square feet of floor area and every rooming unit
occupied by more than one occupant shall contain at least 45 square feet of
floor area for each additional occupant.
   (C)   Sleeping Room Required.
      (1)   Any room used as a bedroom or for sleeping purposes shall contain
at least 70 square feet of habitable floor area and a minimum of 30 square feet
of habitable floor area for each additional person who sleeps in that room.
      (2)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes shall be located so as to
afford privacy of access not requiring passage through another bedroom or
bathroom.
      (3)   In no event shall any dwelling unit be occupied by more than two
persons per bedroom. Any room which serves as a kitchen, bathroom, living room,
or dining room shall not be used as a bedroom.
   (D)   Ceiling Height Required.
      (1)   Habitable rooms, except kitchens, shall have a ceiling height of
not less than 7 feet 6 inches for at least 50% of their required areas. Not
more than 50% of the required area may have a sloped ceiling less than 7 feet 6
inches in height with no portion of the required areas less than 5 feet in
height.
      (2)   If any room in a building has a sloping ceiling which provides an
area of less than 5 feet it shall not be considered as part of the floor area
in computing the total floor area of the room for the purpose of determining
the maximum permissible occupancy thereof or the required habitable floor area.
      (3)   Hallways, corridors, bathrooms, water closets, and kitchens shall
have a minimum ceiling height of 7 feet measured to the lowest projection from
the ceiling.
   (E)   Minimum Storage Facilities. Each dwelling unit shall be provided, for
its exclusive use, storage in an amount no less than 10% of the gross floor
area of the dwelling unit. There shall be direct access to the storage area
without entry into another dwelling unit. Each storage unit shall be lockable
and separate for each unit.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-02) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.37 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   Windows, Doors and Screens. All windows and exterior doors, including
storm windows and doors, shall be weathertight and in good repair. All screen
doors and screens shall be in good repair.
   (B)   Insect Screens Required. During the months of May through October, an
insect screen in good repair shall be provided by the owner for every required
window area as defined in §
150.37(C).
   (C)   Required Window Area. Each habitable room shall contain windows or
skylights which have a combined area equal to or exceeding 8% of the floor area
of the room, except for kitchens and bathrooms which comply with §§
150.37(F) and (G). The required window area in a basement or cellar being used
as a habitable room shall be located entirely above grade.
   (D)   Natural Lighting. All required windows or skylights specified in §
150.37(C) must be maintained in working order as to be able to open and close
safely.
   (E)   Mechanical Ventilation. Properly installed mechanical ventilation
controlled by the occupant may be used in place of required natural ventilation
in any habitable room. Such mechanical ventilation shall be maintained in good
repair.
   (F)   Kitchen Ventilation. Kitchens and kitchenettes shall have a minimum of
one required window opening directly to the outdoors or be provided with
mechanical ventilation. When the kitchen is not provided with required natural
ventilation, mechanical ventilation shall be provided:
      (1)    In the ceiling or wall close to the range and not more than four
feet from the center line of the range off the side or front of the range; or
       (2) In the wall directly above the range between wall cabinets and
range, provided a metal collector hood is installed.
   (G)   Bathrooms, Shower Rooms and Toilet Rooms. Bathrooms, shower rooms, and
toilet rooms shall contain one window, not less than three square feet in area,
opening directly to the outdoors or shall be ventilated by one of the following
methods:
      (1)   Individual vents or ducts installed in accordance with the city
Mechanical Code:
      (2)   A skylight with not less than three square feet in area of
ventilating opening; or
      (3)   By any system of mechanical ventilation operable by the occupant
which is capable of exhausting quantities of air as specified by the city
Mechanical Code.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.38 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Responsibility of Owners. It shall be the responsibility of the owner
to keep and maintain each dwelling so as to comply with the minimum basic
requirements of §§
150.30 through
150.41. If the owner is prevented from complying with such requirements by the
actions of a tenant, it shall be the right of the owner to terminate the
tenancy and evict the tenant in accordance with applicable state law.
   (B)   Responsibility of Occupants. Every occupant shall cooperate with the
owner or responsible party and shall be responsible for keeping and maintaining
the dwelling in a safe and sanitary condition, except for normal wear and tear,
and for meeting the minimum requirements of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
   (C)   Keeping of Animals Limited. No person shall keep, maintain, or house
any animal or fowl, except as permitted by the ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Animals in Dwellings. Animals kept or allowed within a dwelling shall
not be permitted by the occupant or responsible party to create any unsafe,
odorous or unsanitary condition or to cause any damage to the dwelling or
structure.
   (E)   Animal Nuisances. Animals kept or allowed in a yard or in an accessory
structure shall not
be permitted by the occupant or responsible party to create any unsafe, odorous
or unsanitary condition.
   (F)   Improvements in Yards and Parking Areas.  
      (1)   Maintenance. All improvements located in a yard, including, but not
limited to walkways, driveways, parking areas, steps, fences, and walls shall
be kept in good repair. All unimproved areas within yards shall be continuously
maintained as mowed lawn or shall be landscaped.
      (2)   Sidewalks. A paved sidewalk shall be installed between the public
sidewalk and the main entrance to the dwelling. If there is no public sidewalk,
the rental dwelling entrance sidewalk shall be extended to the road right-of-
way.
      (3)   Parking. There shall be a minimum of two improved, off street
parking spaces provided for each dwelling unit within a rental dwelling
building. No motor vehicles, trailers, recreational vehicles, or other wheeled
vehicles shall be parked anywhere on the property other than the improved
parking areas and driveways. A minimum three feet wide area of lawn or
landscaping shall be required between any parking area and any property lines
for snow storage, drainage and privacy.
      (4)   Improved driveway and parking areas. All driveways, sidewalks, and
parking areas shall be improved as specified in this division and shall be
continuously kept repaired and well maintained.
      (5)   Driveway and parking area construction standards. Driveways and
parking areas shall be improved in full compliance with the standards specified
in one of the following four alternatives:
         (a)   Limestone: Six inches of compacted limestone with acceptable
driveway containment border.
         (b)   Asphalt.
            1.   Four inches limestone (compacted in place) base;
            2.   Two inches asphalt (hot material asphalt).
         (c)   Approach.
            1.   Compacted granular fill (as necessary);
            2.   Compacted three inch crushed limestone;
            3.   Two inch asphalt (hot material asphalt) 1100T, 20AAA or equal.
         (d)   Concrete.
            1.   Six inch concrete (five bag mix minimum);
            2.   Four inch minimum limestone (compacted in place).
         (e)   Pavers.
            1.   One inch bedding course slag sand;
            2.   Eight inch granular base - 21 AA limestone;
            3.   Paver thickness: 60 mm (2.36") for cars; 80 mm (3.15") for
trucks.
      (6)   Driveway permit. A permit shall be required for driveway
improvements. A $25 refundable fee will be charged for each permit. The permit
will provide for an inspection of the driveway improvements before any hard
surface is put in place.
   (G)   Trees, Shrubs and Plants. Trees, shrubs, and plants which have damaged
a dwelling or which are diseased or create an unsafe condition shall be trimmed
or removed by the responsible party.
   (H)   Storage or Accumulation Prohibited. No person shall accumulate or
permit to be accumulated junk, except in a wholly enclosed structure provided
that such storage does not harbor vermin or pose a fire hazard to the occupants
of the dwelling.
   (I)   Building Materials. Except as may otherwise be permitted by city
ordinance, no person shall store, accumulate, or permit the storage or
accumulation of any building materials on property owned, leased, rented or
occupied by him for any period longer than reasonably necessary for the
immediate use of such materials, but in no event longer than 60 days.
   (J)   Securing Dwellings. No person shall maintain or permit to be
maintained any vacant dwelling unless it is made safe by having all broken or
missing panes of glass replaced and all openings secured, or that all openings
have sheathing, cut to fit and set into the outside casings and nailed to the
jamb property.
   (K)   Unsafe Dwelling. No responsible party shall keep or maintain a
dwelling that is in an unsafe condition due to, but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Unsanitary conditions
      (2)   Inadequate exit facilities
      (3)   Existence of a fire hazard
      (4)   Any condition which is dangerous to human life or the public
welfare.
The responsible party shall make the dwelling safe by repairing or removing it
in accordance with city ordinances.
   (L)   Unfit Dwelling. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, or rooming
unit, in whole or in part, which shall be found to have any of the following
defects shall be deemed to be unfit for human habitation:
      (1)   One which is damaged, decayed dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, or
vermin-infested so that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of
the occupants or to the public.
      (2)   One which lacks light, ventilation, heating, or sanitary facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public as
prescribed by the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      (3)   One which does not include a stove or other cooking facilities, a
refrigerator, or space for dry goods storage; except however, where said
facilities are not required by §§
150.30 through
150.41 for a particular type of dwelling unit.
      (4)   One which exposes or could expose the occupants to dangerous levels
of air pollution from carbon monoxide, sewer gas, dust, or other harmful
pollutants.
      (5)   One which because of its location, exposes or could expose the
occupants to serious adverse environmental conditions, natural manmade, such as
dangerous walks, steps, instability, flooding, poor drainage, septic tank back-
ups, sewage hazards, mud slides, or excessive noise, vibration or vehicular
traffic.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-02; Am. Ord. 7.3, passed 7-15-
03) Penalty, See §
150.99(C)
§ 150.39 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Basis of Inspections.  Inspections will be done to obtain and maintain
compliance with the standards of this section based upon one or more of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Probable cause to believe there is a violation of the standards set
forth in §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      (2)   The need to determine compliance with an order or notice issued by
the city.
      (3)   An emergency observed or reasonably believed to exist.
      (4)   A request for an inspection by a tenant, owner or responsible
party.
      (5)   The Rental Housing Code Official shall inspect each dwelling unit
of each residential property in the city bi-annually.
   (B)   Compliance/Re-Inspection.
      (1)   If a dwelling unit is found to be in compliance with §§
150.30 through
150.41, said unit shall be exempt from further inspection for three years
unless an event specified in §§
150.39(A)(1) through
150.39(A)(4) occurs. If a dwelling unit or dwelling does not comply with §§
150.30 through
150.41, the Rental Housing Code Official shall notify the applicant and re-
inspect the dwelling or dwelling unit for compliance within 90 days.
      (2)   All newly constructed rental dwelling units shall be exempt from
inspections for a period of three years from the issuance of the initial
certificate of occupancy.
      (3)   Those units that are not brought into compliance within 90 days
will be inspected on an annual basis until such time as they have an inspection
with no violations which are not corrected within a 90-day period.
   (C)   Fees for Inspections and Re-Inspections. Fees for inspections and
reinspections required by §§
150.30 through
150.41 and all administrative fees shall be in accordance with a fee schedule
adopted by reference by the City Commission and are not subject to appeal to
the Housing Board of Appeals.
   (D)   Right of Entry Generally. Authorized inspections inside a dwelling
shall be made during reasonable hours. Entry without the consent of an occupant
or responsible party shall require an administrative search warrant. If the
owner or occupant fails to comply with the city's ordinance inspection requests
for residential rental property, the enforcing agency may obtain a search
warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Order to Repair or Correct. Upon observing the existence of a
violation of the standards of §§
150.30 through
150.41, the Housing Code Official shall issue an Order to Repair or Correct
Conditions to the responsible party. The Order to Repair or Correct Conditions
shall be issued by delivering the Order to the responsible party personally or
by regular mail. The Order to Repair or Correct Conditions shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name of the owner, occupant or responsible party ordered to
make repairs.
      (2)   Specify the date of the inspection.
      (3)   Specify the address where the violation was found.
      (4)   Include the name, telephone number and signature of the inspector.
      (5)   Include a description and the location of each violation observed
by the inspector.
      (6)   Order the responsible party to correct all listed violations by a
specified date and to contact the Building Department to determine if the
necessary work requires a permit or that the work be performed by a licensed
contractor.
      (7)   State that re-inspection will be made to determine whether all
violations have been corrected by the date specified.
   (F)   Posting an Order to Repair or Correct Conditions. If the Housing Code
Official determines that violations exist at a dwelling, and is unable to
personally serve the responsible party with an Order to Repair or Correct
Conditions, the Housing Code Official shall post an Order to Repair or Correct
Conditions in a conspicuous place on or near the affected dwelling.
   (G)   Time to Correct Violations:
      (1)   All orders issued regarding violations of §§
150.30 through
150.41 shall provide a specified time for achieving compliance in relation to
the seriousness of the violation.
      (2)   Orders to Repair or Correct Conditions issued between October 31st
and April 1st for exterior work adversely affected by cold or snow may provide
additional time for the completion of such work, but in no case longer than
June 30th.
      (3)   The Housing Official may extend the re-inspection time provided in
a written notice when there are extenuating circumstances or where the
responsible party has made a substantial documented effort to correct
violations.
   (H)   Noncompliance with an Order or Notice. Upon failure of the responsible
party to comply with an Order or Notice, the Housing Official shall issue an
appearance ticket or refer the matter to the City Attorney for prosecution or
other appropriate legal action.
   (I)   Removal of Posted Signs or Notices. No person shall remove, damage,
deface, interfere with, move or conceal any Order or Notice posted pursuant to
§§
150.30 through
150.41 without first obtaining written permission of the Building Official. Any
sign or notice posted pursuant to §§
150.30 through
150.41 shall include a statement of this provision.
   (J)   Change in Ownership. The Housing Official shall immediately issue a
new Order to Repair or Correct Conditions to any person assuming ownership or
the status of responsible party for any dwelling which has been cited in an
Order to Repair or Correct Conditions. A responsible party who has failed to
comply with an Order to Repair or Correct Conditions shall not be relieved of
the responsibility of having violated any provision of §§
150.30 through
150.41 by transferring title to another person.
   (K)   Declaring a Dwelling Unsafe. The Housing Official may declare a
dwelling unsafe when the responsible party has failed to comply with §
150.38(L).
   (L)   Notice of Unsafe Conditions. The Notice of Unsafe Conditions shall:
      (1)   Specify the date of the inspection;
      (2)   Specify the address where the violation was found;
      (3)   Include the name, telephone number and signature of the inspector;
      (4)   Include a description and the location of each violation observed
by the inspector;
      (5)   State that each violation is a separate punishable offense;
      (6)   Order the responsible party to correct all listed violations by a
specified date.
      (7)   State that a re-inspection will be made to determine whether all
violations have been corrected by the date specified.
      (8)   Specify that the responsible party shall make the dwelling safe by
repairing or removing it in accordance with §§
150.30 through
150.41 and other pertinent provisions of city ordinances;
      (9)   State the date in which the unsafe conditions are to be repaired or
the dwelling removed;
      (10)   Specify that the city may demolish or make the dwelling safe if
the responsible party has failed to comply with a Notice of Unsafe Conditions.
Any costs incurred by the city shall be a personal debt of the responsible
party to the city and shall be assessed as a lien against the property; and
      (11)   Shall inform the responsible party where to obtain the applicable
building, electrical, mechanical and plumbing permits for repair, construction
or demolition.
   (M)   Posting of Dwelling Declared Unsafe. If the Housing Official declares
a dwelling unsafe and is unable to personally serve the responsible party with
a Notice of Unsafe Conditions, the Administrator shall send the responsible
party the Notice by regular mail and shall post a sign in a conspicuous place
on or near the affected premises. The sign shall state the following:
      (1)   The address of the dwelling;
      (2)   Date by which the violations are to be corrected; and
      (3)   How further information may be obtained.
   (N)   Order to Vacate. The Housing Official may issue an order to vacate
when the Housing Official has declared a dwelling unsafe pursuant to §
150.39(Q). Such an order may be served personally on the responsible party or
by regular mail. A copy of the Order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
or near the affected dwelling and shall state the following:
      (1)   Date of which the dwelling shall be vacated;
      (2)   Address of dwelling;
      (3)   How further information may be obtained.
   (O)   Occupancy of Unsafe Dwelling Prohibited. No person shall occupy or
permit or allow another person to occupy a dwelling which has been declared
unsafe under §
150.39(Q).
   (P)   Failure to Vacate. If a responsible party fails to comply with an
Order to Vacate, the Housing Official may issue an appearance ticket or refer
to the City Attorney's office for prosecution or other appropriate legal
action.
   (Q)   Order to Secure. The Housing Official may issue an Order to Secure
when he has declared a dwelling unsafe pursuant to §
150.39(Q). Such an order may be served personally on the responsible party or
by regular mail. The Housing Official shall post an Order to Secure on or near
the affected premise. The Order shall state:
      (1)   The address of the dwelling;
      (2)   The name of the responsible party ordered to secure the dwelling;
      (3)   The date by which the dwelling is to be secured; and
      (4)   How further information may be obtained.
   (R)   Securing by the City. Where the responsible party has failed to comply
with an Order to Secure, the city may secure the dwelling. Any costs incurred
by the city for securing the dwelling shall be a personal debt of the
responsible party to the city and may be assessed as a lien against the
property.
   (S)   Cost of Demolition or Making a Dwelling Safe.  If the city demolishes
or repairs an unsafe dwelling, the cost of demolition or making a dwelling safe
pursuant to the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41 shall be a personal debt of the responsible party of the city and may be
assessed as a lien against the property.
   (T)   Registration of Rental and Rooming Dwellings. All rental dwellings and
rooming dwellings existing as of the effective date of §§
150.30 through
150.41 shall be registered with the Building Department no later than 90 days
after the effective date of §§
150.30 through
150.41. Failure to comply with the registration requirements is a violation of
§§
150.30 through
150.41.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97; Am. Ord. 7.3, passed 10-3-06; Am. Ord. passed 9-1-09)
Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.40 REGISTRATION COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Registration Information. Application for registration shall be made
on such forms and in accordance with such instructions as may be provided by
the Building Department and shall include:
      (1)   The address of the rental dwelling or rooming dwelling;
      (2)   The total number of dwelling units or room units;
      (3)   The identification of each dwelling unit by letter or number;
      (4)   The name, residence address, business address, business telephone
number of the property owner;
      (5)   The name, residence address, business address and business
telephone number of a responsible party, if other than the owner;
      (6)   Address where the owner/responsible party will accept notices or
orders from the city;
      (7)   The date of registration;
      (8)   Identification of any dwelling unit or rooming units not to be
rented;
      (9)   Date of birth of the owner and the responsible party.
   (B)   Registration Fees. Fees for registration required by §§
150.30 through
150.41 and all administrative fees shall be in accordance with the fee schedule
adopted by the City Commission and are not subject to appeal to the Housing
Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Inaccurate or Incomplete Registration Information. No responsible
party shall provide inaccurate or incomplete information for the registration
of rental dwellings and rooming dwellings, or fail to provide information
required under §
150.40(A). In those cases in which the responsible party is not a natural
person, the information required for the registration shall be provided for the
organization owning the rental dwelling or rooming unit and for the president,
general manager or other chief executive officer of the organization. Where
more than one natural person has an ownership interest, the required
information shall be provided for each person.
   (D)   Registration Acknowledgment. The Building Department shall issue a
Registration Acknowledgment to the responsible party upon receiving all
required registration information.
   (E)   Change in Registration Information. If any change occurs in
registration information provided under §
150.40(A), the responsible party shall file an amended registration form with
the Building Department within 30 days after the change occurs. A new owner of
a registered rental or rooming dwelling shall re-register the dwelling within
30 days of assuming ownership.
   (F)   Certificate of Compliance.
      (1)   The Housing Official shall issue a certificate of compliance for
rental dwellings and rooming dwellings when:
         (a)   A proper registration application has been filed; and
         (b)   The responsible party has paid all fees to the administrative
agency; and
         (c)   The rental dwelling or rooming dwelling has been inspected by
the Housing Official and complies with the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      (2)   The Housing Official may issue a temporary or conditional
certificate of compliance for rental dwellings and rooming dwellings when:
         (a)   A proper registration application has been filed; and
         (b)   The responsible party has paid all fees to the administrative
agency; and
         (c)   The rental dwelling or rooming dwelling has been inspected by
the Housing Official and found to be safe, sanitary, and generally fit for
human occupancy even though it may not totally comply with all the provisions
of §§
150.30 through
150.41, and that the temporary occupancy thereof would not pose a threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   The Housing Official may revoke a certificate of compliance, or a
temporary or conditional certificate of compliance, when the rental dwelling or
rooming dwelling no longer complies with the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41 and/or when the conditions attached to the temporary or conditional
certificate of compliance have not been met.
      (4)   No responsible party shall let or rent to any person a vacant
dwelling unit unless it has been inspected and granted a certificate of
compliance, or a temporary or conditional certificate of compliance, by a duly
appointed inspector of the city.
      (5)   No responsible party shall let or rent to any person a vacant
dwelling unit unless it is safe, clean and fit for human occupancy, and
complies with all of the applicable provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy any rental dwelling
unit unless a certificate of compliance, or temporary or conditional
certificate of compliance, has been issued with respect to said dwelling unit.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy any rental dwelling
unit if the certificate of compliance, or temporary or conditional certificate
of compliance, has been revoked by the Housing Official.
      (8)   A certificate of compliance shall expire two years from the date of
its anniversary date. A temporary or conditional certificate of compliance
shall expire on the date specified thereon, but in no event more than one year
from the date of its issuance.
   (G)   Certificate of Compliance - Mixed Uses. Mixed uses, dwelling and
commercial, business or otherwise, must obtain a certificate of compliance for
both dwelling use and the other mixed use or uses.
   (H)   Appeals to the Housing Board of Appeals. A responsible party may
appeal an Order or Notice issued pursuant to §§
150.30 through
150.41, except those matters for which §§
150.30 through
150.41 does not allow an appeal, if such person:
      (1)   Believes that the Order or Notice is an incorrect interpretation of
§§
150.30 through
150.41;
      (2)   Proposed an alternative method equal to or more stringent than the
provisions cited in the Order or Notice.
   (I)   Procedure for Filing Appeal. Any person wishing to make an appeal to
the Housing Board of Appeals shall file a completed appeal form with the city
administration within 14 calendar days from the date of issuance of an Order or
Notice on the appellant. If a Notice is not personally served on the appellant,
it may be sent to the appellant by regular mail. Failure of the appellant to
receive notification when sent to the address stated on the appeal form will
not render such notice defective. The city shall notify the appellant and other
interested parties including the occupants of the affected dwelling of the time
and date of the Housing Board of Appeals hearing pursuant to §§
150.41(D)(1) and (2).
   (J)   Continuation of Existing Use. The legal use and occupancy of a rental
dwelling existing on the date of adoption of §§
150.30 through
150.41 may be continued without any construction changes, providing that the
rental dwelling unit has been registered with the city and has passed an
inspection prior to the date of adoption of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
   (K)   Records to be Maintained. Adequate inspection records indicating the
condition of all rental dwelling units shall be kept on file in the Building
Department.
   (L)   Release of Records. Release of records generated and maintained by the
Building Department shall be regulated pursuant to the Freedom of Information
Act, P.A. 442 of 1976, as amended.
   (M)   Complaint Confidentiality. The city shall not release any information
regarding the name, address or telephone number of any person who reports a
violation of §§
150.30 through
150.41 except:
      (1)   By consent of the complainant;
      (2)   Pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, P.A. 442 of 1976, as
amended; or
      (3)   By court order.
   (N)   Covenants of Lessor.
      (1)   In every lease of residential premises, the lessor covenants:
         (a)   That the premises and all common areas are fit for the use
intended by the parties.
         (b)   To keep the premises in reasonable repair during the term of the
lease or license and to comply with the applicable health and safety laws of
the state and of the local unit of government where the premises are located,
except when the disrepair or violation of the applicable health or safety laws
has been caused by the tenants willful or irresponsible conduct or lack of
conduct.
      (2)   The parties to the lease or license may modify the obligations
imposed by this section where the lease or license has a current term of at
least one year.
   (O)   Enforcement Generally. §§
150.30 through
150.41 may be enforced jointly and severally by the
Fire Official, the Chief Building Official and the city administration, by and
through their agents. An owner or occupant of the premises upon which any
violation exists may bring an action to enforce the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.41 in his own name. Upon application by the city, or upon motion of the
party filing the complaint, the city may be substituted for, or joined with,
the complainant in the discretion of the court.
   (P)   Civil Remedies for Violations.
      (1)   If a dwelling is constructed, altered, converted or maintained in
violation of any provision of §§
150.30 through
150.41 or of any order or notice given hereunder, or if a nuisance exists at
any dwelling, the city may institute an action in the Circuit Court to prevent
such unlawful construction, alteration, conversion or maintenance, or restrain,
correct or abate such violation of nuisance, to prevent the occupation of such
dwelling or to prevent any illegal act or conduct of any business in or about
such dwelling. The procedure for such action shall be the same as for an
injunction or abatement of a nuisance under Circuit Court rules, under the
statutes made and provided in such cases, or under the common law. The judgment
of the Court in such cause may direct the correction, repair or rehabilitation
of the dwelling or the abatement and may authorize the city to carry out the
provisions of the judgment in case of default by the defendant. Whenever the
city has incurred any expense for the enforcement of §§
150.30 through
150.41 or the judgment of the Court, the city may institute and maintain a suit
against the responsible party of the dwelling in respect to which such expense
was incurred and may recover the amount of such expense in addition to the
costs of the suit. The judgment of the Court may order the vacation of the
dwelling until the corrections, rehabilitations or abatements are completed.
      (2)   The city shall have a lien upon the premises for the expenses
necessarily incurred in the execution of such judgment, which lien shall have
priority over all other liens or encumbrances, except taxes, assessments or
mortgages recorded previous to the existence of such lien. Such a lien may be
foreclosed as in the case of foreclosure of mortgages in Circuit Court.
   (P)   Delaying or Terminating Prosecution. Nothing in this section shall
delay or be cause for terminating the criminal prosecution of a responsible
party for violation of §§
150.30 through
150.41.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97) Penalty, see §
150.99(C)
§ 150.41 HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation. A Housing Board of Appeals is hereby established which shall
perform its duties and exercise its powers in such a way that the objectives of
§§
150.30 through
150.41 shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Membership and Appointment.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of five members who shall be appointed by
the Mayor and confirmed by the City Commission for a term of three years. Any
vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor for the remainder of the
unexpired term and confirmed by the City Commission. The Housing Board of
Appeals shall annually elect its own chairman, vice-chair, secretary, and other
such officers it may deem necessary.
      (2)   The secretary shall maintain a permanent official record of all its
transactions; such records shall be public records.
      (3)   The compensation of the appointed members of the Housing Board of
Appeals shall be fixed by the City Commission.
      (4)   The City Commission may appoint not more than two alternate members
for the same term as regular members of the Housing Board of Appeals. An
alternate member may be called as necessary to serve as a regular member of the
Housing Board of Appeals in the absence of a regular member if the regular
member is absent from or will be unable to attend a meeting of the Housing
Board of Appeals. An alternate member may also be called to serve as a regular
member for the purpose of reaching a decision on a case in which the regular
member has abstained for reasons of conflict of interest. The alternate member
appointed shall serve in the case until a final decision is made. The alternate
member has the same voting rights as a regular member of the Housing Board of
Appeals.
   (C)   Meetings (Hearings).
      (1)   All meetings of the Housing Board of Appeals shall be at the call
of the chairman and at reasonable times as the Board may determine.
      (2)   All hearings conducted by said Board shall be open to the public.
      (3)   Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct
of its business.
      (4)   The Board shall adopt its. own rules of procedure.
      (5)   The City Clerk, or his representative, shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating such fact and shall also keep records of its
hearings and other official action.
      (6)   The Board shall have the power to subpoena and require the
attendance of witnesses officials, administer oaths, compel testimony, and the
production of books, papers files and other evidence pertinent to the matters
before it.
      (7)   The Board shall make no decision except in a specific case.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   The Board shall either by general rule or in specific cases
determine the interested parties who, in the opinion of the Board, may be
affected by any matter brought before it which in all cases shall include those
persons who own any real property within 300 feet of the premises in question,
according to the latest assessment records of the city, and the occupants of
all single and two-family, dwellings within 300 feet of said premises in
question.
      (2)   Such notice may be delivered either personally or by mail addressed
to said respective owners as disclosed by the most current assessment records
contained in the City Assessor office and to tenants at address given for
property in the latest assessment record. If the tenant's name is not known,
the term "occupants" may be used.
   (E)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals from the ruling of any official charged with the
enforcement of §§
150.30 through
150.41 may be made to the Board by the person, firm or corporation or by any
officer, department, board or bureau affected by any such decision.
      (2)   Any person may appeal and testify at a meeting (hearing) either in
person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney.
      (3)   Such appeals shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed
by the Board of Appeals.
      (4)   The appellant shall file with the city administration a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds of the appeal.
      (5)   The officer from whom such appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit
to the Board all the papers constituting the record together with a summary
report of previous action taken.
      (6)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless any official, department, board, or commission of the city
certifies to the Board of Appeals after notice of appeal has been filed, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a Stay would, in his opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall
not be stayed, otherwise than by a Restraining Order granted by a Court of
Record.
   (F)   Fees. The City Commission may, from time to time, prescribe and amend
by resolution a reasonable schedule of fees to be charged to applicants for
appeals to the Housing Board of Appeals. At the time the notice of appeal is
filed, said fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer to the credit of the
General Revenue Fund of the city.
   (G)   Decisions.
      (1)   The Housing Board of Appeals shall render a decision on the appeal
without unreasonable delay in the form of a resolution, either reversing,
modifying or affirming, wholly or partly, the decision appealed from or may
make such orders, requirements, or determination as ought to be made, and to
that end shall have the powers of any officer, or department, board or
commission of the city.
      (2)   The concurring vote of four of the members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any Order, requirements, decisions, or determination of
any officer. or department, board, or commission of the city, or to decide in
favor of the applicant in the matter upon which it is authorized by §§
150.30 through
150.41 to render a decision.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board the power or authority to alter or change §§
150.30 through
150.41; such power and authority being reserved to the City Commission in the
manner provided by law.
      (4)   Appeal to Circuit Court by an unsuccessful appellant to the Housing
Board of Appeals shall be made within 21 days of the date of the meeting at
which the vote was taken.
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97; Am. Ord. 7.3, passed 5-18-04)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.65 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be acted and referred to as “The Unsafe Building and
Structure Ordinance.”
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66)
§ 150.66 DANGEROUS BUILDING GUIDELINES.
   All buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
shall be deemed dangerous buildings:
   (A)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base.
   (B)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more, of damage
or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage or
deterioration of the nonsupporting enclosing or outside walls or covering.
   (C)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon floors or roofs or
in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (D)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety, morals, or the general health and
welfare of the occupants or the people of the city.
   (E)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary, full of junk, rubbish, garbage, or which so utterly fail to provide
the amenities essential to decent living that they are unfit for human
habitation, or are likely to cause sickness or disease, so as to work injury to
the health, morals, safety or general welfare of those living therein or
nearby.
   (F)   Those having light, air and sanitation facilities which are inadequate
to protect the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein.
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other means
of communications.
   (H)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure members of the public or property.
   (I)   Those which because of their condition are unsafe, unsanitary, or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of
this city.
   (J)   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of the Building
Code, or any provision of the Fire Prevention Code, or other ordinances of this
city.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66)
§ 150.67 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any building or other structure, public or private, maintained in violation
of the provisions of §
150.66 is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and a dangerous building.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.68 PERSONNEL WITH RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of Police, the City Health Officer, the Fire Chief, the Building
Inspector and their respective deputies, are each authorized and empowered, at
all reasonable times to enter into, and upon all premises within the city, for
the purposes of examination, and inspection thereof, without liability for
trespass.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66)
§ 150.69 VIOLATIONS.
   Upon complaint that any of the provisions of this subchapter are being
violated, or upon his own motion without complaint, the Building Inspector may
make an investigation, and if he shall find that any building or other
structure is maintained in violation of this subchapter, he shall make a
written determination as to violation, and to what extent the building or other
structure so investigated should be repaired, or whether such building or
structure should be torn down or completely removed, and immediately file same
with the City Manager for use by the City Commission, and by any other
interested person.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.70 NOTICE ON BUILDINGS.
   Upon making and filing such determination as aforesaid it shall be the duty
of the Building Inspector to:
   (A)   (1)   Place a notice on all dangerous buildings reading as follows:
“THIS BUILDING HAS BEEN FOUND TO BE A DANGEROUS BUILDING BY THE BUILDING
INSPECTOR OF IMLAY CITY”
      (2)   This notice is to remain on this building until it is repaired,
vacated, or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been given the
owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent of this building, and all other
persons having an interest in said building as shown by the land records of the
County Register of Deeds. It is unlawful to remove this notice until such
notice is complied with.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall also notify in writing the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent and all other persons having an interest in
said building as shown by the land records of the County Register of Deeds, of
any building found by him to be a dangerous building within the standards set
forth in § 150.60, that:
      (1)   The owner must vacate or repair, or demolish the building in
accordance with the terms of the notice and this subchapter;
      (2)   The occupant or lessee must vacate said building or may have it
repaired in accordance with the notice and remain in possession;
      (3)   The mortgagee, agent or other persons having an interest in the
building as shown by the land records of the County Register of Deeds may at
his own risk repair, vacate, or demolish said building or have such work or act
done.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall also specify a time as soon as
practicable thereafter when, and a place where, such person or persons may
appear before the City Commission, and be heard by them respecting the
condition of such building or structure. The notice must be served at least
four days before the date of hearing therein mentioned, by any person of
suitable age and discrimination, by delivering same personally to such owner,
or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, directed to the
person or persons at his or their last known address. The person making such
service shall make proof of the service, under oath, and file the same with the
City Manager, immediately after making the service. If the owner or other
persons cannot be found, or are absent from the city, the notice may be served
upon any tenant or occupant of the building or other structure, or any person
found in charge thereof, with the same effect as if served upon the owner
himself.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66)
§ 150.71 HEARING.
   At the time and place specified for a hearing the City Commission shall
consider the determination of the Building Inspector, together with all
pertinent evidence introduced by either the Inspector or the owner of the
building of structure. Any person holding a mortgage or other lien upon the
building or structure, or having any interest therein shall have the right to
be heard in the proceedings. The Council may affirm, reverse or modify the
determination of the Building Inspector and shall, by resolution, enter an
order on the records accordingly. The determination of the Building Inspector
as affirmed or modified by the Council shall be final, and conclusive insofar
as it involves findings of fact, or exercise of discretion.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66)
§ 150.72 COMPLIANCE.
   If the order of the Commission is to repair, tear down or remove, the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of the building or structure shall be
given not less than 15 days from the entry of the order by the Commission to
signify in writing his or their intention to comply therewith, and to begin the
necessary work. When the work, as ordered, is begun, it shall be the duty of
the person or persons to carry same forward with reasonable diligence. Failure
of the person or persons to signify in writing his intention to comply with the
terms of the order of the Commission is a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66)
§ 150.73 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of the building or
structure shall fail to comply with the order of the Commission within the time
hereinbefore limited, or, having begun the work, as ordered, in compliance with
the order, shall fail to prosecute the work with reasonable diligence, the
Building Inspector is authorized to cause the proper city officials to proceed
forthwith to make repairs or to tear down or remove the building or structure,
as the case may be, on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.74 EXPENSES INCURRED BY CITY.
   Any expense which may be incurred by the city in repairing, tearing down or
removing any buildings or structure under the authority of §
150.67, shall be a debt due from the owner of the building or structure to the
city, and may be recovered by charging the costs against the land on which the
building existed as a municipal lien, or cause the costs to be added to the tax
duplicate as an assessment. All unpaid charges which upon January 1 of each
year have remained unpaid shall be reported by the City Manager to the City
Commission at the first meeting in the month of January. The City Commission
shall thereupon order the publication in a newspaper, published in the city, or
notice to all owners of property within the city that all unpaid charges as of
January 1 which have not been paid by January 31 will be transferred to the tax
roll and assessed upon the city's tax roll against the property to which the
unpaid rates of charges accrued to be collected in the same manner as the lien
created by the city taxes on the tax roll.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66)
§ 150.75 TAX ROLL ASSESSMENT.
   All unpaid charges which are reported by the City Manager to the City
Commission as having been unpaid on January 1 of each year and which remain
unpaid on January 31 shall be transferred to the city’s tax roll assessed
against the property to which the services were supplied or furnished for which
the unpaid rates or charges accrued, to be collected with and in the same
manner as city taxes are collected, and if the same shall remain delinquent and
unpaid after the expiration of the time limit in the warrant for the collection
of taxes levied in the roll, the charges shall be returned to the County
Treasurer to be collected in the same manner as the lien created by city taxes
on the delinquent tax roll of the city.
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate a provision this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment
not exceeding 90 days, or both fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation
continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
§
150.01 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other orders and sanctions
which may be imposed by the court, for each infraction. Repeat offenses shall
be subject to increased fines as provided for in the Civil Infraction
Ordinance, being Chapter 35 of this code.
(Ord. 7.5, passed 12-18-01)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
150.30 through
150.41 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each
infraction. Repeat offenses under these sections shall be subject to increased
fines as provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 7.3, passed 2-4-97)
   (D)    Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
150.65 through
150.75 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each
infraction. Repeat offenses under these sections shall be subject to increased
fines as provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 3.2, passed 4-5-66; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 151: DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONS, DEPARTMENTS AND BOARDS
Section
Downtown Development Authority
   
151.01   Establishment
   
151.02   Powers, duties and boundaries
   
151.03   Downtown Development Authority Board
   
151.04   Director's bond
   
151.05   Tax increment finance and development plans
Planning Commission
   
151.35   Planning Commission authorization
   
151.36   Membership and appointment
   
151.37   Terms of office
   
151.38   Planning Commission Officers
   
151.39   Compensation and expenses
   
151.40   Removal for cause
   
151.41   Planning Commission meetings
   
151.42   Annual report and budget
   
151.43   Statutory and ordinance authority
   
151.44   Bylaws and records
Lamb-Steele Building Board
   
151.50   Establishment
   
151.51   Intent
   
151.52   Parameters
   
151.53   Terms
   
151.54   Powers and duties
   
151.55   Governing body
   
151.56   Amendments
   
151.57   Registered office
   
151.58   Revenues
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 151.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Commission, determining that it is necessary for the best interests
of the public to halt property value deterioration and increase property tax
valuation where possible in its business district, to eliminate the causes of
that deterioration and to promote economic growth, hereby declares its
intention to and hereby does create and provide for the operation of the City
of Imlay City Downtown Development Authority, pursuant to Public Act No. 197 of
the Public Acts of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 et seq.
(Ord. 13.3, passed 1-20-76)
§ 151.02 POWERS, DUTIES AND BOUNDARIES.
   The Downtown Development Authority shall have all powers, duties and
authority prescribed in Public Act No. 197 enabling legislation as may from
time to time be amended and the Downtown Development Authority's boundaries
within the city shall be as follows:
      Starting at the intersection of Borland Road and M-53 (Cedar Street) then
easterly on Borland Road to the East city limits; then north along the city
limits line to the NE corner of the city; then along the city limits including
the annexed area to Fairgrounds Road to the intersection of the city limits and
M-21, then easterly along M-21 to Main Street; then south along Main Street to
the NW corner of Palmer's Second Addition to the original Plat of Imlay City;
then east along the north line of said Addition, then south along M-53 to the
NE corner of Lot 10 of Palmer's First Addition; then west 70 feet, then south
350 feet to the SW corner of said Lot 10. Then west along Fifth Street to a
point; then south along the alley in Block 28 of Palmer's First Addition to
Fourth Street, then west on Fourth Street to Almont Avenue; then north on
Almont Avenue to the NE corner of Lot 8 of Caulkin's Subdivision, then west
along the north boundary of said Lot to the alley in Block 4, Caulkin's
Subdivision; then south along said alley to Fourth Street, then west on Fourth
Street to Caulkin's Street, then south along Caulkin's Street to Third Street,
then east along Third Street to the alley; then south along the alley to the NW
corner of Lot 4, Hunt's Subdivision, then south along western boundary of said
Lot 4 to Second Street, then east on Second Street to Almont Avenue; then south
on Almont Avenue to First Street, then east on First Street to M-53 (Cedar
Street); then south on M-53 (Cedar Street) to point of beginning.
(Ord. 13.3, passed 1-20-76; Am. Ord. passed 7-27-83)
§ 151.03 DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board
consisting of the Mayor and not less than eight or more than 12 members as
determined by the City Commission. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor. Not
less than a majority of the members shall be persons having an interest in
property located in the downtown district. Not less than one of the members
shall be a resident of the downtown district, if the downtown district has 100
or more persons residing in it. Of the members first appointed, an equal number
of the members, as near as is practicable, shall be appointed for one year, two
years, three years, and four years. A member shall hold office until the
members successor is appointed. Thereafter, each member shall serve for a term
of four years. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the Mayor for
the unexpired term only. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation,
but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses. The Chairperson of
the Board shall be elected by the Board.
   (B)   Before assuming duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking and
subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules governing its procedures and holding of
regular meetings, subject to the approval of the City Commission. Special
meetings may be held when called in the manner provided in the rules of the
Board. Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
   (D)   Pursuant to notice and an opportunity to be heard, a member of the
Board may be removed for cause by the City Commission. Removal of a member is
subject to review by the Circuit Court.
   (E)   All expense items of the Authority shall be publicized monthly and the
financial records shall always be open to the public.
(Ord. 13.3, passed 1-20-76; Am. Ord. passed 4-19-83)
§ 151.04 DIRECTOR'S BOND.
   The Downtown Development Authority Board may employ a director who, before
entering upon the duties of his office, shall take and subscribe to the
constitutional oath, and furnish bond by posting a bond in the penal sum of
$5,000, payable to the Authority for use and benefit of the Authority, approved
by the Board and filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 13.3, passed 1-20-76)
§ 151.05 TAX INCREMENT FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   The Tax Increment Finance and Development Plans shall be adopted by
the Downtown Development Authority from time to time. The Tax Increment Finance
and Development Plans are authorized by Act No. 197 of the Public Acts of 1975,
as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 et seq. and shall be implemented in
accordance with its provisions.
   (B)   Following a public hearing on December 7, 2004 on the Imlay City
Downtown Development Authority Development and Tax Increment Financing Plan
(the "Plan") held pursuant to M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 et seq. (the "Act"), and
having made the findings set forth below, the City Commission has found and
determined that the Plan constitutes and seeks to accomplish a public purpose,
and that the Plan is consistent with and seeks to accomplish the intent and
purpose declared by the City Commission for the establishment of the Downtown
Development Authority (the "Authority") pursuant to Ord. 13.4 adopted December
7, 2004.
      (1)   The Plan is consistent with Sections 14 and 15 of the Act.
      (2)   The Plan meets the requirements set forth in Section 17(2) of the
Act.
      (3)   The proposed method of financing the development described in the
Plan is feasible and the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
      (4)   The development described in the Plan is reasonable and necessary
to carry out the purposes of the Act.
      (5)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the master plan
of the city.
      (6)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities,
are or will be adequate to service the project area.
      (7)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections and
utilities are reasonably necessary for the project and for the city.
   (C)   Premised on the findings and determinations made in (B) above, and on
further finding that pursuit and execution of the Plan appears to be in the
best interest of the city, the Plan in the form attached as Exhibit A to Ord.
13.4, passed December 7, 2004 and made part of the City Commission minutes on
the date this section was adopted is approved and adopted.
(Ord. 13.5, passed 12-18-84; Am. Ord. 13.4, passed 1-16-96; Am. Ord. 13.4,
passed 12-21-04)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 151.35 PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORIZATION.
   In accordance with the Michigan Planning Enabling Act (Public Act 33 of
2008), the Imlay City Planning Commission previously established is hereby
continued, with the powers and duties set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.36 MEMBERSHIP AND APPOINTMENT.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven (7) members who are qualified
electors of the city. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Commission. One of the Planning Commission members shall be an ex-
officio member who shall be a member of the City Commission and one of the
Planning Commission members shall be an ex-officio member who shall be the
Mayor. All members, including ex-officio members, shall have full voting
rights. Vacancies occurring for any reason shall be filled for the remainder of
the unexpired term by appointment of the Mayor with the approval of the City
Commission. The membership of the Planning Commission shall be representative
of important segments of the community, such as industry, natural resources,
recreation, education, public health, government, transportation and commerce.
No employee of the city shall be a member of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.37 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Each appointed member, except ex-officio members, shall serve for a three
(3) year term. Terms shall be staggered so that no more than two (2) of the
members' terms (not counting ex-officio members' term) shall expire in any one
(1) year. Members may be eligible for reappointment at the discretion of the
City Commission. The terms of office of the Mayor and the City Commission
member who serve on the Planning Commission shall correspond to their terms of
office on the City Commission.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.38 PLANNING COMMISSION OFFICERS.
   The Planning Commission members shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson,
and a Secretary for terms of one (1) year. The Mayor or the City Commission
member may not serve as the Chairperson or the Vice-Chairperson of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.39 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   Members of the Planning Commission shall be compensated for their services
and reimbursed for expenses as provided by the City Commission.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.40 REMOVAL FOR CAUSE.
   A member of the Planning Commission may be removed by the City Commission,
after written charges and a public hearing, for nonfeasance, misfeasance, or
malfeasance in office. Failure to disclose a potential conflict of interest as
defined in the Bylaws of the Planning Commission shall be considered
malfeasance. Failure to repeatedly attend Planning Commission meetings shall be
considered nonfeasance.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.41 PLANNING COMMISSION MEETINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall meet each month, if there is business to be
conducted. In no event shall the Planning Commission hold less than four (4)
regular meetings during each calendar year. The majority of the Commission
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of ordinary business. All
questions which shall arise at Planning Commission meetings shall be determined
by a vote of the majority of the members present, except for approval of a
proposed Master Plan or Master Plan amendment which shall be by affirmative
vote of a majority of all Planning Commission members.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.42 ANNUAL REPORT AND BUDGET.
   The Planning Commission shall submit an annual report to the City Commission
which shall include a proposed Planning Commission budget. The City Commission
shall annually appropriate the funds necessary, in its judgment, for the
operation of the Planning Commission during the fiscal year.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.43 STATUTORY AND ORDINANCE AUTHORITY.
   The Planning Commission shall have all powers and duties set forth in the
Michigan Planning Enabling Act (Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended) and the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act (Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended), which shall
include the following:
   (A)   Preparation of a city Master Plan and any necessary amendments for
recommendation to the City Commission;
   (B)   Preparation of a city zoning ordinance and any necessary text
amendments for recommendation to the City Commission;
   (C)   Consideration of requested rezonings of property and recommendation to
the City Commission;
   (D)   Hear and decide any requests for special land use approvals;
   (E)   Review and decide any requests for site plan approval;
   (F)   Prepare and adopt bylaws for the Planning Commission; and
   (G)   Perform any other duties as may be assigned to it by the City
Commission or pursuant to city ordinances or state statutes.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
§ 151.44 BYLAWS AND RECORDS.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for transaction of business. The
Commission shall also keep a record of its resolutions, findings, and
determinations, all of which shall be public records.
(Ord. 15.1, passed 3-17-09)
LAMB-STEELE BUILDING BOARD
§ 151.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board is established which shall be known as the Lamb-Steele Building
Board in conformance with Section 14.1 of the Charter.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.51 INTENT.
   The general intent of the Board shall be that of performing the necessary
functions of interrelations among the municipalities in the area as set forth
in M.C.L.A. §§ 124.1 et seq. and Section 2.4 of the Charter.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.52 PARAMETERS.
   The parameter of the Board shall be as follows:
   (A)   To plan the use of the Lamb-Steele Building.
   (B)   To supervise the functions enumerated in existing leases relating to
the Lamb-Steele Building.
   (C)   To establish a financial plan and to respond to financial problems
arising out of the use of the Lamb-Steele Building.
   (D)   To arrange permits arising out of aforesaid uses.
   (E)   To plan the intended use of the Lamb-Steele property over the useful
life of the building.
   (F)   To furnish, equip, improve, operate and/or maintain a building or
buildings, and parking lots, and the necessary site or sites therefor for the
use of the city.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86; Am. Ord. passed 1-6-87)
§ 151.53 TERMS.
   The members shall serve at the pleasure of the City Commission and shall be
appointed as each term expires.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.54 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to increase or decrease the
consideration specified in any contracts of the lease or leases with the
lessees whenever at the expiration of the term of the lease or leases an
increase or decrease of rent is necessary to provide funds to meet its
obligations. This shall be subject to the current duration of existing leases
and the approval of the City Commission.
   (B)   All property supervised by the Board shall be exempt from taxation by
the state or any taxing unit therein.
   (C)   The Board shall possess all powers necessary to carry out the purpose
of this subchapter, including the incidental powers necessary thereto.
   (D)   The Board shall render to the City Commission an annual report to be
given in the month of October.
   (E)   The Board shall also propose an annual budget which shall be approved
by the City Commission. All Board expenditures shall be made within the limits
of the approved budget.
   (F)   The City Commission shall have the authority to assess the Board for
actual expenses incurred by the city regarding these properties.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86; Am. Ord. passed 1-6-87)
§ 151.55 GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   The Board shall be directed and governed by seven members, four
members of which shall be appointed by the City Commission or City Manager with
the approval of the City Commission. Two members shall be recommended by the
tenants of the building and approved by the City Commission. The Mayor shall be
a member of the Board. The City Manager or his or her designate shall be an ex
officio member.
   (B)   The members shall serve for a period of three years from the date of
their appointment by the City Commission. In the event a vacancy occurs, new
members shall be appointed in the same manner as set forth herein at the next
succeeding meeting of the City Commission. The first Board terms shall be two
terms of three years, one term of two years and one term of one year. Each new
appointment shall be for a three year term. The two members recommended by the
tenants shall serve for a period of three years unless otherwise removed by the
City Commission.
   (C)   The Board shall elect one of its members as Chairperson, one of its
members as Vice Chairperson and one of its members as Secretary-Treasurer. The
election shall occur in July of each year.
   (D)   The Board shall adopt and may amend bylaws and rules of procedure
consonant with the provisions of this subchapter and provide therein for
regular meetings of the Board. The meetings shall comply with the Open Meetings
Act. The bylaws shall be approved by the City Commission.
   (E)   The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the Board. He or she
shall do and perform such other duties as may be affixed by the bylaws and from
time to time assigned to him or her by the Board.
   (F)   The Vice-Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the Board in the
absence of the Chairperson. He or she shall do and perform such other duties as
may be affixed by the bylaws and from time to time assigned to him or her by
the Board.
   (G)   The Secretary-Treasurer shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the
Board and of all committees thereof, in books provided for the purpose; he or
she shall attend to the giving, serving and receiving of all notices or process
of or against the Board; and when so ordered, he or she shall affix the seal of
the Board thereto; he or she shall have charge of all books and records, which
shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection and examination by the
Board or any member thereof, and in general perform all the duties incident to
his or her office.
   (H)   Annual compensation, or per diem compensation, for the Board shall be
fixed by the City Commission.
   (I)   The books and records of the Board and of the officers and agents
thereof shall be open to inspection and audit by the city at all reasonable
times.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.56 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments may be made to this subchapter consistent with the city's
Charter.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.57 REGISTERED OFFICE.
   Location of the registered office and post office address of this Board is:
150 N. Main Street, Imlay City, MI 48444.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86)
§ 151.58 REVENUES.
   The Board shall spend its revenues to assist the medical needs and senior
citizens of the city. Upon dissolution of the Board, all funds shall be paid to
the city forthwith.
(Ord. 17.1, passed 10-21-86)
CHAPTER 152: LAND DIVISION
Section
Title, Purpose and Scope
   
152.10   Short title
   
152.11   Purposes
   
152.12   Legal basis
   
152.13   Scope of regulations and vested rights
   
152.14   Administration
   
152.15   Schedule of fees
Rules of Construction and Definitions
   
152.20   Rules of construction and definitions
   
152.21   Definitions
   
152.22   Process
Subdivision Procedure
   
152.30   Pre-preliminary investigation
   
152.31   Required plat information
   
152.32   Sketch plan
   
152.33   Tentative preliminary plat
   
152.34   Final preliminary plat
   
152.35   Construction of improvements
   
152.36   Final plat
   
152.37   Extension of review deadlines
   
152.38   Coordination of rezoning with subdivision approval
   
152.39   Development guides; approval by City Commission
Design Standards
   
152.40   Streets
   
152.41   Blocks
   
152.42   Lots
   
152.43   Sidewalks, pedestrians through-block connectors and bikepaths
   
152.44   Landscaping
   
152.45   Utilities
   
152.46   Easements
   
152.47   Natural features
   
152.48   Flood plains
   
152.49   Engineering standards
Improvements
   
152.51   Improvements
   
152.52   Responsibility for plans
   
152.53   Procedures
   
152.54   Required public improvements
   
152.55   Installation of street trees and sidewalks
   
152.56   Performance guarantee
   
152.57   Maintenance of improvements following approval
Compliance Standards
   
152.60   Approvals
Division of Land Not Requiring Subdivision Approval
   
152.70   Application requirements
   
152.71   Review procedures
   
152.72   Standards for granting approval
Interpretation
   
152.80   Minimum requirements
Variance or Appeal
   
152.90   Variances from this chapter
   
152.91   Variance standards
   
152.92   Variances from the zoning chapter
Enforcement and Penalties
   
152.100   Enforcement
   
152.101   Penalties
TITLE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE
§ 152.10 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the "Imlay City Land
Division Ordinance."
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.11 PURPOSES.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Act No. 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as
amended, Imlay City, Michigan, by and through its City Council, enacts this
Chapter regulating and controlling the division of land within the city for the
following purposes:
   (A)   Provide means for carrying out the city's responsibilities relative to
the platting of land under the laws of the State of Michigan.
   (B)   Provide for orderly growth and harmonious development of the city,
consistent with the Master Plan, the Zoning Ordinance and other plans and
Ordinances related to development.
   (C)   Protect the character, the social and the economic stability of all
parts of the city, and encourage an orderly and beneficial development of the
city through appropriate control of the timing and phasing of the development
process, promotion of infill development in existing neighborhoods and areas
with adequate public facilities, and protection of sensitive environmental
areas.
   (D)   Establish reasonable standards for design of subdivision lots,
streets, utilities, and landscaping to further the orderly layout and use of
land.
   (E)   Provide for adequate light, air, and privacy; to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger.
   (F)   Prevent the overcrowding of the land and population.
   (G)   Achieve maximum utility and livability on individual lots.
   (H)   Protect and conserve the value of land, buildings and improvements by
minimizing conflicts among both existing and planned land uses.
   (I)   Provide for efficient traffic circulation through a coordinated
functionally-classified street system in order to lessen existing or potential
congestion on the existing or planned street system.
   (J)   Ensure that facilities exist or are provided concurrent with
development; ensure that these facilities safely and efficiently accommodate
traffic associated with the proposed subdivision without requiring the City to
bear the cost of providing said facilities.
   (K)   Provide convenient facilities within the subdivision for pedestrians
and bicyclists; link with other existing or planned non-motorized
transportation systems.
   (L)   Ensure that public facilities, such as water, sewerage and drainage,
are available concurrent with development, and will have sufficient capacity to
serve the proposed subdivision without requiring the City to bear the cost of
providing the facilities.
   (M)   Ensure that public services, such as police and fire protection, are
available and adequate to serve the proposed subdivision without requiring the
City to bear more than its fair share of the cost of providing the services.
   (N)   Provide opportunities for efficient design and layout of the land in a
manner that retains or provides usable open space, parks, playgrounds and other
recreational facilities within Subdivisions.
   (O)   Encourage the wise use and management of natural resources, require
additional tree plantings or landscaping to preserve the rural character,
integrity, stability and beauty of the city.
   (P)   Ensure proper survey, legal description, and placement of monuments on
subdivided land.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.12 LEGAL BASIS.
   This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the statutory authority granted by the
Land Division Act of 1967, Act 288, P.A. 1967; Act 222 P.A. 1943 enabling the
planning commission to certify plats, Act 215, P.A. 1895, as amended,
authorizing City Councils to adopt ordinances and regulations to secure the
public health, safety, and general welfare: and Act 285, P.A. 1931 providing
for approval by the City Planning Commission and consistency with the city's
general development plan.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.13 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS AND VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   No land may be divided, subdivided or combined through the use of any
legal description unless approved by the City in accordance with this Chapter;
provided that the following shall be exempted from this requirement:
      (1)   An exempt split as defined in this chapter, provided such parcel is
accessible.
      (2)   A parcel proposed as a condominium pursuant to the City Zoning
Ordinance and the Michigan Condominium Act.
   (B)   The approval required under the provisions of this chapter shall be
obtained prior to the installation of any subdivision or project improvements
within the city, in public streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way, and
public easements, or under ultimate jurisdiction of the city. All subdivisions
or project improvements within the city installed in public streets, public
alleys, public rights-of-way, and public easements, or under ultimate
jurisdiction of the City shall comply with all of the provisions and
requirements of this chapter or any other related ordinance.
   (C)   Land divisions that do not require subdivision plat approval shall be
reviewed and approved in accordance with the procedure and requirements of
Article VI of this chapter.
   (D)   All subdivision plats shall be reviewed and approved in accordance
with the procedure and requirements of Articles II, IV and V of this chapter.
   (E)   These regulations apply to all subdivisions created after the
effective date of this chapter that are located totally or partially within the
boundaries of Imlay City including those which received tentative preliminary
plat approval, or were submitted for review but did not receive approval under
the prior Subdivision Regulations.
   (F)   A subdivision which received final preliminary plat or final plat
approval from the City Commission prior to the effective date of this chapter
shall be processed in accordance with the standards and procedures established
in the previous Subdivision Regulations, provided a final plat, meeting all
requirements of this chapter and the Michigan Land Division Act, is Filed with
the City within two (2)years of receiving final preliminary plat approval. The
City may require compliance with the standards established herein upon a
determination that compliance is necessary for the preservation or protection
of health, safety and welfare.
   (G)   This chapter shall not abrogate or annul any easement, bylaw, master
deed, deed restriction, covenant, private agreement or dedicated public right-
of-way, except where the regulations or standards of this chapter are more
restrictive or impose a higher standard.
   (H)   The regulations established herein are considered to be the minimum
necessary to achieve the purposes listed above. Any conflicting Ordinances,
regulations, or laws of a more restrictive nature shall supersede the
appropriate provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Except as otherwise provided above, no vested rights shall accrue to
the owner or developer of any subdivision until the actual signing of the final
plat by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.14 ADMINISTRATION.
   The approval provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the City
Commission in accordance with Act 288, P.A. 1967, as amended.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.15 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The City Commission shall adopt a schedule of fees by resolution which shall
include the cost of engineering review and other costs incurred by Imlay City
in reviewing and processing the preliminary and final plats. This shall include
the cost of Imlay City retaining planning consultants and/or other experts to
advise the City regarding a particular plat.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS
§ 152.20 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules of construction shall apply to this chapter:
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, where a
regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events
connected by a conjunction, the conjunctions shall have the following meaning:
      (1)   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions,
or events shall apply.
      (2)   "Or" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events may apply singly or in any combination (i.e. "or" also means "and/or").
      (3)   "Either" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
   (C)   The phrase "such as" shall mean "such as, but not limited to".
   (D)   The phrase "including" shall mean "including, but not limited to".
   (E)   Use of "including," "includes,""such as ... .. additional," or
"supplemental" means that the examples provided are illustrative and not an
exhaustive listing, unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
   (F)   Where an illustration accompanies any provision in this chapter, the
written text shall have precedence over tile illustration, unless the context
indicates to the contrary.
   (G)   References to departments, commissions, and other offices are to those
of Imlay City, unless otherwise indicated.
   (H)   A reference to a public official or staff person of the City is to
that person who performs the function referred to, and may include a designee
of the public official or staff person.
   (I)   A reference to days is to calendar days unless otherwise indicated in
this chapter or specified by State law. If a deadline falls on a weekend or
City holiday, the deadline shall be extended to the next working day. A working
day is defined as normal business hours of any day that is not a Saturday,
Sunday, or official City holiday.
   (J)   In computing a period of days, the day of the act or event from which
the designated period of days begins to run shall be excluded, and the last day
of the period is included, unless the last day is not a working day. If the
last day is not a working day, the period runs until the end of the next
working day.
   (K)   Use of "shall," "will" or "must" is mandatory; use of "may" Is
permissive, with the decision made by the city.
   (L)   Words in the present tense include the future tense, words used in the
plural include the singular, and the singular plural, unless the context
clearly indicates to the contrary.
   (M)   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation, as well I as an individual.
   (N)   "Across" or "across from" shall mean "on the opposite side" and shall
not be interpreted as having the same meaning as "adjacent" or "contiguous"
unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
   (O)   All measurements shall be to the nearest integer unless otherwise
specified.
   (P)   Singular words shall include the plural and masculine words shall
include the feminine and neuter.
   (Q)   Words or terms not defined herein shall have the meaning customarily
assigned to them.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.21 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   ABUTTING. Having a common border with, or being separated from such common
border by, an easement,
   ADJACENT. See "Contiguous".
   APPLICANT. An individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
combination thereof, who holds ownership interest in land and is seeking
approval for a division or consolidation of unplatted parcels in accordance
with this chapter.
   APPLICATION. A request to divide and/or consolidate unplatted parcels and
platted lots, or for a subdivision Tentative Preliminary Plat, Final
Preliminary Plat, or Final Plat application, submitted for review in one
complete package, that substantially meets all of the submission requirements
of this chapter and has been accepted by the City as complete.
   BERM. A mound of soil, either natural or man made, suited to obstruct views.
Unless otherwise indicated or appropriate, required berms shall be measured
from the average grade adjacent to the berm or the grade of the parking lot
adjacent to the berm.
   BICYCLE (BIKE) PATH. A pathway, usually separated from the roadway, designed
specifically to satisfy the physical requirements of bicycling, in accordance
with the standards of the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO).
   BLOCK. That property abutting one side of the street and lying between the
two nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest such street and
railroad right-of-way, un-subdivided acreage, river or live stream; or between
any of the foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development.
   BLOCK LENGTH. The distance between intersections of through streets; such
distance being measured along the longest street bounding the block, and from
right-of-way line to right-of-way line of the two intersection streets.
   BOND. Any form of a surety bond in an amount satisfactory to the City and in
a form satisfactory to the City Attorney. (see also "Performance Guarantee")
   BUFFER OR BUFFER ZONE. An area within a subdivision required adjacent to
certain zoning districts to improve views, and reduce noise impacts between
uses which may otherwise be conflicting. The buffer zone may consist of natural
existing vegetation which is preserved, or may be created or enhanced by trees,
shrubs, fences, or berms.
   BUILDABLE PORTION OF A LOT. The buildable portion of the lot shall generally
include that portion of the lot on which the principal building may be
constructed in compliance with all Ordinances and laws.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
   BUILDING LINE OR SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to a street right-of-way
line, shore of a lake, edge of a stream or river bank, established on a parcel
of land or on a lot for the purpose of prohibiting construction of a building
between such line and a right-of-way, other public area, or the shore of a
lake, or the edge of a stream or river bank.
   BUILDING PERMIT. An authorization issued by the Building Inspector to move,
erect, or alter a structure within Imlay City.
   CALIPER. The diameter of a tree trunk measured in inches, six (6) inches
above ground level for trees up to and including four (4) inches in diameter,
and twelve (12) inches above ground level for trees over four (4) inches in
diameter. This measurement is for nursery stock trees only, (see diameter at
breast height (dbh) for measurement of existing trees).
   CAPTION. The name by which the plat is legally and commonly known.
   CITY. Imlay City, Michigan.
   CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of Imlay City.
   CITY ENGINEER OR ENGINEERING CONSULTANT. The staff engineer or consulting
engineer of the city.
   CITY PLANNER OR PLANNING CONSULTANT. The staff planner or consulting planner
of the city.
   CLERK. The City Clerk of Imlay City.
   CONDOMINIUM. A condominium is a system of separate ownership of individual
units in multi- unit projects created according to Public Act 59 of 1978, as
amended. In addition to the interest acquired in a particular unit, each unit
owner is also a tenant in common in the underlying fee and in the spaces and
building parts used in common by all the unit owners.
   CONSOLIDATE. The combining of one or more lots, outlots, or parcels of land
into a single lot or parcel.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS. The drawings accompanying a subdivision plat that show
the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision.
   CONTIGUOUS. Lots are contiguous when at least one boundary line of one lot
shares a boundary line or lines of another lot.
   CULVERT. A structure designed to convey a water course not incorporated in a
closed drainage system, under a road or pedestrian walk.
   DATE OF FILING:
   (A)   Date of Filing for Tentative Approval of the Preliminary Plat: Is the
date the proprietor files a complete preliminary plat, meeting the requirements
of this chapter and the Michigan Land Division Act, with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Date of Filing for Final Approval of the Preliminary Plat: Is the date
the proprietor files the tentatively approved preliminary plat and a certified
list of all authorities required for approval with the City Clerk.
   (C)   Date of Filing for Final Plat Approval: Is the date the proprietor
files the necessary prints of the final plat with the City Clerk.
   (D)   Date of Filing for Land Division: Is the date that the applicant Files
a complete land division application, meeting the requirements of the
Ordinance, with the City Clerk.
   DEDICATION. A conveyance of land by the owner in the nature of a gift or
grant and an acceptance of that land by or on behalf of the public.
   DETENTION BASIN. A man-made or natural water collector facility designed to
collect surface and sub-surface water in order to impede its flow and to
release the same gradually at a rate not greater than that prior to the
development of the property, into natural or man-made outlets.
   DEVELOPMENT. A planning or construction project involving substantial
property improvement and, usually, a change of land-use character within the
site; the act of using land for building or extractive purposes.
   DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a lot, parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors or assigns, for the purpose of sale or lease of
more than one year, or of building development that results in one or more
parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that satisfies the
requirements of this chapter. "Divide" or "Division"shall not include a
property transfer between two or more adjacent parcels, if the property taken
from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel; and any resulting parcel shall
not be considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading, or other means.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The system through which water flows from the land,
including all watercourses, water bodies and wetlands.
   DRIVEWAY. A private lane, serving a principal dwelling, designed primarily
for vehicular access to connect a building with a street.
   EASEMENT. A specific area of land over which a liberty, privilege, or
advantage is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation, or some
particular person or part of the public for specific uses and purposes, and
which shall be designated a "public" or "private" easement, depending on the
nature of the user.
   ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS. Features, natural resources or land
characteristics that are sensitive to improvements. Such constraints may
require conservation measures, the application of creative development
techniques, or limited development to prevent degradation of the environment.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments, or the
wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice, or gravity.
   ESCROW. A deed, a bond, money, or interest in a piece of property
temporarily deposited with the City Clerk or a neutral third party called the
escrow agent, by the agreement of two parties. The escrow agent will hold the
deposit until the conditions of the agreement are met, at which time the agent
will release it to the grantee.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction alteration, or maintenance,
by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions, of underground,
surface, or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith, as shall be reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or municipal
departments or commissions or for the public health or general welfare, but not
including buildings other than such buildings as are primarily enclosures or
shelters of the above essential service equipment.
   EXEMPT SPLIT OR EXEMPT DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres.
   FENCE. An artificially constructed unroofed barrier of wood, masonry, stone,
wire, metal, or similar manufactured material which may or may not serve as an
enclosure.
   FLOODPLAIN. That area of land adjoining the channel of a river, stream,
watercourse, lake or other similar body of water which will be inundated by the
greatest flood that can be reasonably expected for that area (one hundred [100]
year interval).
   GRADE. The slope of a street, other public way, or land specified in
percentage (%) terms.
   GROUND COVER. A planting of low-growing plants or sod that in time forms a
dense mat covering the area, preventing soil from being blown or washed away
and the growth of unwanted plants.
   GREENBELT. A strip of land of definite width and location reserved for the
planting of a combination of shrubs, trees and ground cover to serve as an
obscuring screen and buffer for noise or visual enhancement, in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
culverts, bridges, landscaping and other additions to the natural state of land
which increase its value, utility or habitability.
   LAND DIVISION ACT. The Land Division Act, Michigan Public Acts 288 of 1967,
as amended, formally the Subdivision Control Act.
   LOT. A parcel of land in Imlay City which constitutes a part of a
subdivision, the plat of which is filed pursuant to the State Land Division Act
(or successor Act), or constitutes part of an assessor's plat, and, further,
shall mean and refer to a condominium site located within a condominium project
which is filed pursuant to the State Condominium Act (or successor Act).
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot. For
purposes of calculation of minimum lot area, easements for overhead utilities
and private access easements shall be excluded, areas within the 100 year
floodplain elevation or determined to be MDEQ regulated wetlands shall be
included, except as noted under the definition of "density".
   LOT, CORNER. A lot where the interior angle of two adjacent sides at the
intersection of two streets is less than one hundred and thirty-five (135)
degrees. A lot abutting upon a curved street or streets shall be considered a
corner lot for the purposes of this chapter if the arc is of less radius than
one hundred fifty (150) feet and the tangents to the curve, at the two points
where the lot lines meet the curve or the straight street line extended, form
an interior angle of less than one hundred and thirty-five ( 135) degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. The lines bounding a lot or parcel and listed below:
   (A)   Front Lot Line (i.e. lot frontage): The lot line(s) abutting a public
street or private road access easement that separates the lot from such right-
of-way or easement, typically measured along the right-of-way line. Comer lots
or through lots are considered to have two front lot lines and shall provide
the minimum required front yard setback at both front lot lines. In the case of
lots bordering on a lake, river or canal, the water or shoreline shall be
designated as the rear of such lots.
   (B)   Rear Lot Line: The lot line opposite and most distant from the front
lot line. For an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a line at least ten ( 10)
feet in length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and most distant from the
front lot line. In the case of lots bordering on a lake, river, stream or
channel, the shoreline shall be designated as the rear lot line for zoning
purposes.
   (C)   Side Lot Line: Any lot line not a front or rear lot line.
   (D)   In the case where the above definitions are not sufficient to
designate lot lines, the Zoning Administrator shall designate the front, rear
and side lot lines in consideration of the orientation of the building(s) on
the lot, the address of the lot, the orientation of other buildings along the
block, and natural features affecting site design.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A lot abutting arid/or collector thorofare, and a
minor street(s) with vehicular access only to the minor street.
   LOT, THROUGH. Any interior lot having frontage on two more or less parallel
streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of double
frontage lots, all yards of said lots adjacent to streets shall be considered
frontage, and front yard setbacks shall be provided as required.
   LOT, WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured parallel
to the front lot line at the minimum required front setback. For irregularly
shaped lots with access easements or "flag lots" connecting to a public street,
the minimum lot width shall be measured at the point where the narrow access
connects to the main section of the parcel. This determination shall be made by
the Zoning Administrator.
   MAJOR STREETS OR THOROFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan which sets
forth the location, alignment and dimensions of existing and proposed streets
and thorofares.
   MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive land use plan for the Municipality, including
graphic and written proposals indicating the general locations recommended for
the streets, parks, schools, public buildings, zoning districts, and all
physical developments of the city including any unit or part of such plan
separately adopted, and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof adopted by
the Planning Commission.
   MEDIAN. That portion of a divided street separating lanes of traffic
proceeding in opposite directions.
   MDEQ. Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   MDPH: Michigan Department of Public Health.
   MDOT: Michigan Department of Transportation.
   OFF-SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the common ownership of the proprietor for
subdivision approval.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. Parking that is provided within a parking lot, parking
structure, or private driveway.
   ON-STREET PARKING. Parking that is permitted on a dedicated street right-of-
way or approved private road.
   OUTLOT. A lot in a subdivision which is restricted from use for building
purposes, whether or not deeded to the city, but which is not dedicated as a
street of public reservation or private part. An outlot cannot be built on
unless it conforms to this chapter.
   PARCEL. A continuous area or acreage of unplatted land which can be
described as provided for in this chapter and the Michigan Land Division Act.
   PARENT PARCEL. A parcel or tract lawfully in existence on March 31, 1997.
   PEDESTRIAN THROUGH-BLOCK CONNECTOR. A pedestrian pathway located at street
level, but perpendicular to the street, to provide short cuts through
development blocks.
   PERFORMANCE BOND GUARANTEE. Any bond acceptable by the City Commission in
lieu of a requirement that certain public improvements be made by the developer
prior to approval of a final plat, including performance bonds, escrow
deposits, and other similar collateral or surety agreements; which bond will be
payable to the governmental body upon failure of the faithful performance of
the condition upon which the subdivision plat was approved.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, co-partnership, limited partnership,
firm, corporation, or association and their lessees, trustees or receivers
appointed by any court. In the instance of a legal entity, the individual(s)
who is (are) the general partners of a partnership, whether limited or not, the
trustee(s) and any beneficiary having the power to appoint or constitute a
trustee of a trust, the officers and directors of a corporation and any
receiver thereof shall be equally liable with the legal entity for any
requirements or penalties provided for in this chapter. In any instance an
agent having the apparent authority to control the use or occupation of such
persons having property regulated by this chapter shall be equally liable with
his, her or its principal for any requirements or penalties provided in this
chapter.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Imlay City.
   PLAT. A map, drawing or chart which depicts the plan of the proposed
Subdivisions of and which is drawn in accordance with the regulations
hereinafter stated.
   (A)   Pre-preliminary Plat: An informal plan or sketch drawn to scale and in
pencil, if desired, showing the existing features of a site and its
surroundings and the general layout of a proposed subdivision. (optional)
   (B)   Preliminary Plat - Tentative Approval (Stage 1): A map showing the
salient features of a proposed subdivision of land submitted to an approving
authority for purposes of preliminary consideration, prepared in conformance
with the Land Division Act. Tentative Approval under this section shall confer
upon the proprietor, for a period of one (I) year from approval date the rights
granted Under Section 112 of the Land Division Act.
   (C)   Preliminary Plat - Final Approval (Stage 2): Final Approval of the
Preliminary Plat under this section shall confer upon the proprietor, for a
period of two (2) years from approval date the rights granted under Section 120
of the Land Division Act.
   (D)   Final Plat: A map of a subdivision of land made up in final form ready
for approval and recording.
   PROPRIETOR. A person who may hold any ownership interest in land, whether
recorded or not.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION. A portion of a subdivision which is set aside for public
use and made available for public use and acquisition.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewage system as defined in Michigan Public Act 98 of 1913,
as amended.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm or corporation, municipal department, City
Commission, or other public authority duly authorized to furnish, and
furnishing under governmental regulations, to the public: gas, steam,
electricity, sewage disposal, public water, telephone lines (not cellular phone
transmissions), cable television services (not communication antennas),
communication, telegraph, transportation, water or other services to residents
of the city.
   PUBLIC WALKWAY. A right-of-way dedicated for the purpose of a pedestrian
access through residential areas, and located so as to connect to two or more
streets, or a street and a public land parcel.
   RECORD DRAWINGS. Construction plans that have been revised upon completion
of construction to illustrate the recorded location and details of
improvements.
   REPLAT. The process of changing, or the map or plat which changes, the
boundaries of a recorded subdivision plat or part thereof. The legal dividing
of an outlot within a recorded subdivision plat without changing the exterior
boundaries of the outlot is not a replat.
   RETENTION BASIN. A pond, pool or basin used for the permanent storage of
water runoff.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land reserved and dedicated for a street, alley,
walkway, or other public purpose, and which may be occupied by public
utilities, such as electric transmission lines, gas pipelines, cable television
lines, fiber optics lines, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewer mains,
street trees, or other utility uses. Rights-of-way established and shown on the
final plat are to be distinct and separate from the lots or parcels adjoining
such rights-of-way, and are not to be included in the dimensions or areas of
such lots or parcels.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES. The lines that form the boundaries of a right-of-way.
   SEDIMENTATION. A deposit of soil that has been transported from its site of
origin by water, ice, wind, gravity, or other natural means as a product of
erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION BASIN. A man-made or natural water collection facility
designed to collect surface water in order to remove sand, silt, debris and
other material which would damage the downstream water course.
   SETBACK. The distance required to obtain the minimum required separation
between the front, side or rear lot lines and the building line or parking lot.
Setbacks from a public street or private road shall be measured from the right-
of-way line or easement. Setbacks shall remain as open space as defined herein,
unless otherwise provided for in this chapter.
   SIDEWALK. A concrete path that provides for pedestrian use and is usually
located at the side of a road within the right-of-way.
   SIGHT DISTANCE. The length of roadway visible to a driver. Generally related
to the distance and time considered to be sufficient for the driver to safely
execute a maneuver (such as complete a left turn for an access point), under
normal weather conditions, as specified by City.
   SKETCH PLAN. A plan drawn to scale showing existing and proposed features of
a site and its surroundings and the general layout of a proposed subdivision.
The plan may include a description of general topographic and soil conditions
on the site including water level information, description of existing and
proposed man-made features important to the proposed development, description
of significant natural features on the site, description of general site
conditions that are to be retained or modified in the proposed development,
description of uses and facilities to be incorporated in the development, and
description of approximate phases of development.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct, alley
or other way which is an existing state, county, or municipal roadway or, a
street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved
by official action; or, a street or way on a plat duly filed and recorded in
the office of the County Register of Deeds. A street includes the land between
the street right-of-way lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise
pavement, shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas, and lawns.
   (A)   Freeway: A street designed for high speed, high volume through
traffic, with completely controlled access, no grade crossings and no private
driveway connections.
   (B)   Arterial (Major Thorofare): An arterial street of greater continuity
which is intended to serve as a large volume trafficway for both the immediate
city area and region beyond, and may be designated on the city's Major
Thoroughfare Plan as a major thoroughfare, parkway, expressway, or equivalent
term to identify those streets comprising the basic structure of the street
plan.
   (C)   Collector Street (Secondary Thorofare): Collector streets and roads
provide access to abutting properties and traffic circulation within
residential, commercial, industrial, and public uses. The purpose of a
collector road is to collect traffic throughout the city and channel it to the
major thoroughfare (arterial) system.
   (D)   Minor/Local Street: A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting residential properties.
   (E)   Marginal Access Street: A minor street paralleling and adjacent to a
major thorofare which provides access to abutting properties and protection
from through traffic.
   (F)   Boulevard Street: A street developed with two (2) lane, one-way
pavements, separated by a median.
   (G)   Dead-end street: A street or road that terminates with no Current or
proposed thorofare to another street or road.
   (H)   Divided street: A street or road having an island, boulevard, median
or other barrier separating moving lanes.
   (I)   Half-street: A street or road containing less than the required right-
of-way width.
   (J)   Turn-Around: A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turn-around.
   (K)   Cul-de-Sac Street: A minor street of short length, having one end open
to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicular
turn-around.
   (L)   Loop Street: A minor street of short length with two openings to
traffic beginning from the same street, and projecting parallel to each other
and connecting at their termination by a loop.
   (M)   Stub street: A portion of a street or road for which an extension has
been proposed and approved, and is terminated by a temporary cul-de-sac.
   (N)   Alley: A dedicated public way affording a secondary means of access to
the side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on another
street and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   STREET TREE. A canopy tree along a public street or approved private road
that is typically located in a street right-of-way or access easement (see also
"tree")
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT. See "Land Division Act."
   SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof or by his heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose of sale, or lease of
more than one year, or of building development, where the act of division
creates more parcels of land than provided in the Michigan Land Division Act
and Article VII of this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION RULES AND DRAINAGE POLICIES. A document prepared by the Lapeer
County Drain Commissioner which sets the minimum standards for drainage
facilities within the County.
   SURVEYOR. Either a land surveyor who is registered in this State as a
registered land surveyor or a civil engineer who is registered in this State as
a registered professional engineer.
   TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP. A map prepared by a surveyor showing existing physical
characteristics, with contour lines at sufficient intervals to permit
determination of proposed grades and drainage.
   TRACT. Two or more parcels that share a common property line and are under
the same ownership.
   TREE. A woody plant which has an erect perennial trunk, which at maturity is
thirteen (13) feet or more in height, which has a more or less definite crown
of foliage. For purposes of this chapter the following definitions of types of
trees shall apply:
   (A)   Deciduous Trees: A tree which has foliage that is shed at the end of
the growing season.
   (B)   Evergreen Trees: A tree which has foliage that persists and remains
green throughout the year.
   (C)   Ornamental Tree: A deciduous tree which is typically grown because of
its shape, flowering characteristics, or other attractive features, and which
grows to a mature height of twenty-five (25) feet or less.
   (D)   Canopy Tree: A deciduous tree which has a mature crown spread of
greater than fifteen (15) feet and a mature height of forty (40) or more feet
in southern Michigan, and which has a trunk with at least Five (5) feet of
clear stem at maturity.
   VARIANCE. A waiver from compliance with a specific provision of the
subdivision regulations Ordinance granted to a particular property owner
because of the practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship that would be
imposed by the strict application of that provision of the Ordinance.
   VESTED RIGHT. The right to initiate or continue the establishment of a use
that will be contrary to a restriction or regulation coming into effect when
the project associated with the use is completed (sometimes referred to as
"grand fathered").
   WATER RESOURCES COMMISSION. The Water Resources Commission through the
Michigan Department of Natural Resources.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of Imlay City or other person
designated to carry out this responsibility by the City Manager or City
Commission.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Zoning Ordinance of the City (see Ch. 155, Appendix:
Zoning Ordinance).
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.22 PROCESS.
   The preparation of a subdivision for platting shall be carried out through
the following process. Submittals must include all information outlined in
Section
152.31.
   (A)   Optional Sketch Plan and Pre-Preliminary Plat review (Section
152.32), involving City staff, consultants and Planning Commission for
direction to the proprietor, but no formal action is taken.
   (B)   Tentative Preliminary Plat review (Section
152.33), which involves review of basic street layout and lot arrangement, the
review of additional information required under this chapter, and a
recommendation by the Planning Commission to the City Commission for approval
or denial. The City Commission, within ninety (90) days from the date of
filing, shall tentatively approve and note its approval on the copy of the
preliminary plat to be returned to the proprietor, or set forth in writing its
reasons for rejection and requirements for tentative approval.
   (C)   Final Preliminary Plat review (Section t 52.34), involves review by
applicable outside (State and Lapeer County) agencies prior to review and
action by the City Commission. The Council shall review the final preliminary
plat, after the plans have been revised to be in conformance with the
requirements of outside agencies. The City Commission shall consider and review
the final preliminary plat at its next meeting, or within thirty (30) days of
the date of filing, of an application that is accepted as complete. The City
Commission will then either approve the application, if the proprietor has met
all the conditions laid down for approval of the final preliminary plat have
been met, or deny the application. The City Commission will then instruct the
Clerk to promptly notify the proprietor of approval or rejection in writing,
and if rejected to give the reasons.
   (D)   Final Plat Approval (Section
152.36), involves review and action to approve or deny the final plat by the
City Commission at its next regular meeting or within twenty (20) days of the
date of filing of an application that is accepted as complete. The City
Commission shall either (1) approve the Final Plat if it conforms to all of the
provisions of this chapter and instruct the Clerk to certify on the plat to the
City Commission's approval or (2) reject the final plat, instruct the Clerk to
give reasons in writing, as set forth in the minutes of the meeting, and return
the plat to the proprietor.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE
§ 152.30 PRE-PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION.
   The proprietor may meet informally with the City Departments concerned to
investigate the procedures and standards of the City with reference to this
Subdivision Regulations Ordinance and with the proposals of the Master Plan as
they affect the area in which the proposed subdivision is located. The
proprietor should concern himself with the following factors:
   (A)   The proprietor shall secure a copy of the Zoning Ordinance,
Subdivision Regulations, engineering specifications, and other similar
ordinances or controls relative to the subdivision and improvement of land so
as to make himself aware of the requirements of the city.
   (B)   The area for the proposed subdivision shall be properly zoned for the
intended use before preliminary plat application is made.
   (C)   An investigation of adequacy of existing schools and the adequacy of
public open spaces including parks and playgrounds to serve the proposed
subdivision shall be made by the proprietor.
   (D)   The relationship of the proposed subdivision with respect to major
thorofares and plans for widening of thorofares shall be investigated by the
proprietor.
   (E)   Standards for sewage disposal, water supply and drainage of the city
shall be investigated by the proprietor.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.31 REQUIRED PLAT INFORMATION.
   The following information is required to be provided on each plat submittal
to the city:
SUBMITTAL    sketch /pre- prelim. tent. prelim . plat final prelim. plat
REQUIREMENTS
SUBMITTAL           sketch /pre- prelim. tent. prelim . plat final prelim. plat
REQUIREMENTS
Proposed name of                                            
subdivision
Name(s) and address
of the proprietor
and the owner of
record of the land
to be subdivided.
The proprietor
shall indicate                                              
interest in the
land as to whether
it is a land
contract interest,
or ownership of the
property in fee
simple.
Names, address and
professional seals
of the designer,
engineer or land                                            
surveyor who
designed the
subdivision layout.
Location by
Section, Town and                                           
Range, or by other
legal description.
Scale of plat, 1" =
100' as minimum                                             
acceptable scale.
Date, revision
dates, and north                                            
arrow.
EXISTING SITE                                               
INFORMATION
An overall area map
at a scale of not
less than 1 2,000'
showing the
relationship of the
subdivision to its                                          
surroundings such
as section lines
and/or major
streets or
collector streets
shall be provided.
Property lines of
adjacent tracts
within 200 feet of
subdivided and
unsubdivided land
shown in relation
to the tract being
proposed for                                                
subdivision
including those of
areas across
abutting road with
those unplatted
landowners being
designated by name.
Boundary lines with
dimensions for the
subdivision. If
plat is to be done
in phases, the
boundaries and
dimensions for each
phase shall be
indicated. All                                              
phases shall be
numbered in the
order in which they
are intended to be
platted. An
estimated time
frame for platting
of each phase shall
also be provided.
City boundary lines
if in or within two
hundred (200) feet                                          
of the proposed
plat.
Location, widths,
and names of
existing or prior
platted streets and
private streets,
and public
easements within or                                         
adjacent to the
tract being
proposed for
subdivision,
including those
located across
abutting roads.
Zoning district
classification for
all land parcels                                            
within and adjacent
to the plat.
SUBMITTAL    sketch /pre- prelim. tent. prelim . plat final prelim. plat
REQUIREMENTS
SUBMITTAL           sketch /pre- prelim. tent. prelim . plat final prelim. plat
REQUIREMENTS
Existing buildings
or other structures
in or within one                                            
hundred (100) feet
of the proposed
subdivision plat.
A written
subdivision site
report that
includes soil
boring logs and                                             
water table
information.
Additional borings
may be required by
the City Engineer.
PROPOSED                                                    
SUBDIVISION
Layout, numbers,
dimensions, and lot
areas in square
feet, including                                             
building setback
lines showing
dimensions.
Indication of
parcels of land
intended to be
dedicated or set                                            
aside for public
use or for the use
of property owners
in the subdivision.
An indication of
the ownership, and
existing and
proposed use of any
parcels identified
as "excepted" on
the preliminary
plat. If the
proprietor has an
interest or owns
any parcel so
identified as
"excepted", the
preliminary plat                                            
shall indicate how
this property could
be developed in
accordance with the
requirements of the
existing zoning
district in which
it is located and
with an acceptable
relationship to the
layout of the
proposed
preliminary plat.
In the case where
the proprietor
wishes to subdivide
a given area, but
wishes to begin
with only a portion
of the total area,
the preliminary
plat shall include
the proposed
general layout for
the entire area.
The part which is
proposed to be
subdivided first
shall be clearly                                            
superimposed upon
the overall plan in
order to illustrate
clearly the method
of development
which the
proprietor intends
to follow. Each
subsequent plat
shall follow the
same procedure
until the entire
area controlled by
the proprietor is
subdivided.
Spot elevations of
the proposed                                                
grading and
roadwork.
NATURAL FEATURES                                            
Topography drawn as
contours at an
interval of not
less than two (2)
feet for the
Subject site and a
general description
of topography
within one hundred
(100) feet of the                                           
plat. Topography
shall be based on
U.S.C. and G.S.
Datum. Existing and
proposed topography
lines shall be
shown in a manner
which is easily
distinguishable.
SUBMITTAL    sketch /pre- prelim. tent. prelim . plat final prelim. plat
REQUIREMENTS
SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS               sketch /pre- tent. prelim . final prelim.
                                     prelim.      plat           plat
Boundaries of regulated floodplain
or wetlands, with documentation and
credentials supporting that the      general                     
boundary was determined by a
qualified firm or individual.
Location of individual trees greater
than 8 inch d.b.h. and the canopy    general                     
outline of dense groupings of trees.
Location and elevation of any        general                     
floodplain areas.
STREETS                                                         
Traffic Impact Study                                            
Name, location, and right-of-way
widths of existing or proposed
public or private streets in or                                 
within two hundred fifty (250) feet
of the proposed plat.
Method of connection with adjoining                             
street system.
General layout of proposed streets.                             
Details on street design including
curve radii, rights-of-way, cross
sections, gradient, street signs,                               
traffic control devises, traffic
signals, etc.   
Names of proposed streets                                       
Street Lighting: the location for
any street lights shall be shown. A
diagram of a typical street light                               
planned to be installed in the plat
shall be provided.
Location of school bus stops and
documentation from the school                                   
district.
SIDEWALKS AND BIKEPATHS                                         
Locations of proposed sidewalks,                                
bike paths and similar facilities.
Details on the width, materials,
grades, etc. of pedestrian                                      
facilities
LANDSCAPE PLAN                                                  
A general conceptual landscape plan
illustrating buffer zones and        general                     
greenbelts
Location and details of street
trees, buffer zones and greenbelts                              
including plant lists.
SUBMITTAL    sketch /pre- prelim. tent. prelim . plat final prelim. plat
REQUIREMENTS
SUBMITTAL           sketch /pre- prelim. tent. prelim . plat final prelim. plat
REQUIREMENTS
Entry Features: A
detailed drawing to
scale of any
proposed entrance
features including                                          
dimensions of
boulevards, walls,
landscaping signs
or lighting.
PUBLIC RESERVATIONS                                         
AND EASEMENTS
Indication of
parcels of land
intended to be
dedicated or set    general                                  
aside for public
use or for the use
of property owners
in the subdivision.
Documentation of
dedication or                                               
reservation.
Existing or
proposed easements
in or within one
hundred (100) feet
of the proposed                                             
plat. Information
should include the
width and purpose
for all easements.
UTILITIES                                                   
General layout of
water and sanitary                                          
sewer lines.
Sewage disposal:
Location, size
material and slope
of sewer lines, or
location of septic
fields, for sewage
disposal by a
method approved by
the Lapeer County
Health Department
or the Michigan                                             
Dept. of Public
Health (MDPH) and
the City
Commission. Utility
information shall
be shown for the
plat and for a
distance two
hundred (200) feet
outside of the
plat.
Water system:
Location, material
and sizes of lines
and the location of
fire hydrants, or
location of wells
for proposed water
supply by a method
approved by the
Lapeer County                                               
Health Department
or the MDPH and the
City Commission.
Utility information
shall be shown for
the plat and for a
distance two
hundred (200) feet
outside of the
plat.
Location, sizes and
other information
on underground
utilities such as
electricity present
and other proposed
utilities. Utility                                          
information shall
be shown for the
plat and for a
distance two
hundred (200) feet
outside of the
plat.
General plans for
stormwater,
including the
location of
detention basin and                                         
the route of the
runoff from the
site to the nearest
drainage course.
 
SUBMITTAL           sketch /pre- prelim. tent. prelim . plat final prelim. plat
REQUIREMENTS
Drainage: An
indication of storm
drainage proposed
by methods
acceptable to the
City and/or the
LCDC. Detailed
information shall
be provided
including location,
size, material and                                          
slope of storm
sewer lines.
Stormwater runoff,
pipe and detention
pond calculations
shall be provided
to analyze the
adequacy of
proposed drainage
facilities.
MISCELLANEOUS                                               
Declaration of                                              
Restrictions.
Proposed location
of mail box                                                 
clusters (if
required).
Details on mail box
cluster design and                                          
letter from Post
Office.
 
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.32 PRE-APPLICATION CONTACT AND SKETCH PLAN (optional).
   Acceptance of the sketch plan does not assure acceptance of the preliminary
plat.
   (A)   Submittal: The proprietor shall file two (2) copies of the sketch plan
and other data to the City Clerk at least ten (10) days before a meeting of the
Planning Commission. The date of the Planning Commission meeting shall be
considered the filing date. Copies shall be distributed by the City Clerk to:
      (1)   Planning Commission.
      (2)   City Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Review Procedure:
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit two (2) copies of the pre-preliminary
plat to the City Clerk ten (10) days before the next meeting of the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall promptly transmit the two (2) copies of the
pre-preliminary plat to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission will review the plan with the subdivider or
his agent. The Planning Commission may also require that copies of the pre-
preliminary plat be submitted to other affected public agencies for review.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall inform the subdivider or his agent of
the city's development policies and make appropriate comments and suggestions
concerning the proposed development scheme.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall inform the City Commission of the
results of the review of the pre-preliminary plat.
   Pre-preliminary plat review is an aid to the developer and to the city.
Under this procedure, a developer is provided with the opportunity to obtain
the advice and assistance of the City Planner and Engineer and the many
agencies involved in subdividing, before preparation of the preliminary plat
and its submission for approval.
   Nothing in this section shall be so construed as to require any pre-
application contact. Any subdivider may elect to begin the subdivision
procedure by submitting a preliminary plat for tentative approval, as set forth
below.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.33 TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY PLAT (Stage 1)(mandatory).
   Tentative Approval under this section shall confer upon the proprietor, for
a period (1) year from approval date, the rights granted under Section 112 of
the Land Division Act.
   (A)   Submittal: The proprietor shall file ten (10) copies of the
Preliminary Plat and other data to the City Clerk at least four-teen (14) days
before a meeting of the Planning Commission. The date the proprietor submits
the application, plat and fee shall be considered the filing date. Copies shall
be distributed by the City Clerk to:
      (1)   Planning Commissioners.
      (2)   City Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   City Engineer.
      (4)   City Planner.
   (B)   Review Procedures: The following review procedures shall be utilized.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall refer the Preliminary Plat to the City Zoning
Administrator for placement on the agenda at least fourteen (14) days prior to
the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission in order to be placed on
the Agenda.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the tentative Preliminary Plat
and the comments of the City Planner and Engineer and, finding all conditions
to. have been satisfactorily met, shall recommend tentative approval of the
Preliminary Plat under Section 112 (4) of the Land Division Act before
distribution to other approving authorities.
      (3)   If the Preliminary Plat does not meet all requirements, the
Planning Commission shall notify the proprietor of this fact by letter, giving
its reason and the earliest date for re-submission of the plat and additional
information required. The City Commission shall receive a report of the
findings by the Planning Commission and its recommendation for disapproval.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall give its report to the City
Commission after conducting a public hearing thereon and not more than sixty-
three (63) days after submission of the Preliminary Plat. The sixty-three (63)
day period may be extended if the applicant consents. If no action is taken
within sixty-three (63) days, the Preliminary Plat shall be deemed to have been
recommended for approval by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   The City Commission, at its next regular meeting after receiving
the recommendation from the Planning Commission, shall review said Preliminary
Plat and within forty-five (45) days of filing, shall tentatively approve the
Preliminary Plat or disapprove said Plat. The City Commission shall record
their approval on the Plat and return one (1) copy to the proprietor or set
forth in writing its reasons for rejection and requirements for tentative
approval.
      (6)   Tentative approval shall not constitute final approval of the
Preliminary Plat.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99; Am. Ord. 152, passed 3-17-09)
§ 152.34 PRELIMINARY PLAT - FINAL APPROVAL (Stage 2)(Mandatory)
   Final approval of the Preliminary Plat under this Section shall confer upon
the proprietor for a period of two (2) years from the date of approval, the
rights granted under Section 120 of the Land Division Act. The two (2) year
period may be extended if applied for by the proprietor and granted by the City
Commission in writing. Written notice of the extension shall be sent by the
City Commission to the other approving authorities.
   (A) Submittal: A complete application containing all of the required
information in Section 152.31 shall be submitted.
      (1)   The proprietor, upon receiving tentative approval from the City
Commission, shall submit the Preliminary Plat to all authorities as required by
Sections 113 to 119 of the Land Division Act, Act 288, Public Acts of 1967,
including but not limited to:
         a.   Lapeer County Road Commission (for approval or rejection).
         b.   Lapeer County Drain Commission (for approval or rejection).
         c.   Michigan Department of Transportation (for approval or rejection)
         d.   Michigan Department of Natural Resources (for approval or
rejection)
         e.   Michigan Department of Public Health and/or Lapeer County Health
Department (for approval or rejection)
         f.   Lapeer County Plat Board (for informational purposes)
         g.   All public utilities serving the area (for informational
purposes)
      (2)   Prior to expiration the tentatively approved Preliminary Plat shall
be submitted by the proprietor in fifteen (15) copies to the Planning
Commission for review and recommendation to the City Commission. The City Clerk
shall distribute copies to the following:
         a.   Planning Commissioners
         b.   City Planner
         c.   City Engineer
   (B)   Review Procedures: The City Commission, after receipt of the necessary
approved copies of the Preliminary Plat shall:
      (1)   Consider the review and recommendations of the City Engineer, City
Planner and City Planning Commission for compliance with the tentative approved
Preliminary Plat standards.
      (2)   Consider the Preliminary Plat at its next meeting or within thirty
(30) days from the date of the submission of all necessary approved plats,
application and fee.
      (3)   If the Preliminary Plat conforms substantially to the plat approved
tentatively by the City Commission and has met all conditions specified for
tentative approval, then the City Commission shall give final approval to the
preliminary-plat.
      (4)   Instruct the City Clerk to promptly record on the copy of the
Preliminary Plat to be returned to the proprietor the approval or rejection
with reasons for any rejection.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.35 CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   After final approval of preliminary plat no construction of improvements
shall be commenced by the subdivider until the subdivider has:
   (A)   Received notice of final approval of the Preliminary Plat by the City
Commission;
   (B)   Approval by the City Engineer of all engineering plans;
   (C)   Entered into a subdivision agreement with the City and all other
appropriate regulatory agencies for construction of all required subdivision
improvements; and,
   (D)   Deposited with the appropriate regulatory agency a performance
guarantee and cash escrow if required under Article V, Section 152.56 of this
chapter.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.36 FINAL PLAT.
   The procedure for preparation and review of a final plat shall be as
follows:
   Following final approval of the Preliminary Plat by the City Commission, the
proprietor shall cause a survey and one (I) true plat thereof to be made by a
surveyor.
   (A)   Submittal: one (1) copy of true plat mylar and an additional ten (10)
paper prints of the final Plat, along with the Application, shall be submitted
to the City Clerk.
      (1)   A Final Plat shall not be accepted after the date of expiration of
the Preliminary Plat-Final Approval.
      (2)   Submittal to the Clerk shall be at least ten (10) days prior to a
regularly scheduled meeting of the City Commission. The date the proprietor
submits the application, plat and fee shall be considered the date of Filing,
   (B)   Information Required:
      (1)   All Final Plats of subdivided land shall comply with the provisions
of survey and mapping requirements cited in the Land Division Act, Act 288,
Public Acts of 1967, especially those cited in Sections 126 through 141.
      (2)   All Final Plats of subdivided land shall comply with the
certification requirements cited in the Land Division Act, Section 288, Public
Acts of 1967, especially those cited in Sections 142 through 151.
      (3)   A policy of title insurance currently in force covering all of the
land included within the boundaries of the proposed subdivision certified to
the date of submission for Final Plat Approval, which establishes recordable
ownership interest.
   (C)   Procedures:
      (1)   The Final Plat shall be reviewed by the City Engineer as to
compliance with the approved Preliminary Plat-Final Approval and plans for
utilities and other improvements, including the placement of monuments.
      (2)   The City Commission shall review all recommendations within twenty
(20) days and take action on the Final Plat as soon as practicable after the
filing of said Plat if it is in proper form.
      (3)   The City Commission shall require all improvements and facilities
to be constructed including the placement of monuments or require a cash
deposit or Its equal in lieu of constructions of such improvements and
facilities before it approves the Final Plat.
      (4)   Upon approval of the Final Plat by the City Commission, the
subsequent approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the Land Division
Act, Act 288, Public Acts of 1967. If not approved, the City Commission shall
instruct the Clerk to give the proprietor its reasons in writing, as set forth
in the minutes of the meeting, and return the Plat to the proprietor.
      (5)   The City Commission shall instruct the Clerk to record all
proceedings in the minutes of the meeting, which shall be open for inspection,
and to certify on the approved Final Plat the Council's approval and the date
thereof on behalf of the City Commission.
      (6)   The City Clerk shall transcribe a Certificate of Approval of the
City Commission on the Final Plat and direct proprietor or proprietor's
representative to deliver all originals to the Clerk of the County Plat Board
together with the filing and a recording fee required by the Land Division Act.
      (7)   The City Clerk shall transmit one (1) paper print copy to the
Planning Commission, one (1) paper print to the City Zoning Administrator, one
(1) paper print to the City Assessor, and retain one (1) paper print copy
temporarily in the files of the City Commission.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.37 EXTENSION OF REVIEW DEADLINES.
   Deadlines for the City to take action on a preliminary or final plat, as
specified in the Land Division Act and reiterated in this chapter, may be
extended by mutual written consent of the proprietor and the City Clerk. A
waiver of the review deadlines may be required to permit concurrent processing
of related review applications. In the absence of written consent for such a
waiver, denial of a plat shall be considered appropriate if the City has not
been given sufficient time within the deadline to evaluate the impact of a
proposed plat on the public health, safety and welfare, pursuant to the
regulations in this chapter.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.38 COORDINATION OF REZONING WITH SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Rezoning required. No subdivision plat that requires a rezoning shall
be considered prior to approval of the rezoning by the City Commission.
   (B)   Issuance of permits. No building permits or certificates of occupancy
shall be issued until the City has granted final approval of the zoning
application and the final plat has been properly recorded. This provision shall
not apply to model homes subject to the limitations of Section
152.35.(a).
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.39 DEVELOPMENT GUIDES; APPROVAL BY CITY COMMISSION.
   The subdivision design standards set forth under the following subsection
are development guides for the assistance of the proprietor. All final plans
must be reviewed and approved by the City Commission.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.40 STREETS.
   Streets shall conform to at least all minimum requirements of the general
specifications and typical cross-sections as set forth in this Design Standards
section of this chapter, and other conditions set forth by the City Commission.
   (A)   Location and Arrangements.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the various elements of
the Master Plan and shalt be considered in relation to the existing and planned
major thorofares and secondary streets, and such part shall be platted in the
location and the width indicated on such plan.
      (2)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of
existing streets from adjoining areas into new subdivisions, unless other-wise
approved by the City Commission, following a recommendation by the Planning
Commission, due to documented environmentally sensitive features, unusual lot
configuration or unique site conditions. Where adjoining vacant areas are zoned
or planned for development similar to the proposed subdivision, streets shall
be extended to the boundary line of the tract to make provision for the future
street connections. The proprietor shall demonstrate that the proposed stub
street is in a reasonable location for extension into the adjacent lands, in
consideration of such factors as grades, water bodies, wetlands and lot
configuration.
      (3)   Streets shall be aligned to maximize the preservation of natural
features and existing grades to the extent feasible. Streets should follow
natural topography to minimize grading.
      (4)   The proposed subdivision street layout shall discourage use by
through traffic, except where a continuation of streets to adjoining properties
is deemed desirable by the city. In determining the need for such connections,
the City shall consider the need for adequate access and response time for
emergency vehicles, the impacts such connections may have on reducing
congestion along arterials, the projected traffic volumes and the compatibility
with adjacent developments.
      (5)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain an existing or
proposed major thorofare or collector, the Planning Commission may require
marginal access streets, reverse frontage with an approved screen planting
contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property line having a
minimum width of fifteen (15) feet, or such other treatment as may be necessary
for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards. Vehicular driveway access shall be to a minor
street.
      (6) Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain a railroad,
expressway, or other limited access highway 9 right-of-way, the Planning
Commission may require the location of a street approximately parallel to and
on each side of such right-of-way at a distance suitable for the development of
an appropriate use of the intervening land as for parks in residential
districts. Such distances shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for approach grades to future grade separation.
      (7)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where the parcel is
adjacent to another platted and dedicated half street or when a contemporaneous
development proposal includes the required adjacent half street. Wherever there
exists-adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, a dedication or platted and
recorded half street; the other half shall be platted.
      (8)   Private Streets: Private streets and roads shall generally be
prohibited.
      (9)   Where a subdivision incorporates existing public streets or private
roads which are not in conformance with current standards, such facilities
shall be reconstructed as necessary to improve the road to the extent required
by the City for public roads.
   (B)   Specifications:
      (1)   Street Rights-of-way Widths: Street road right-of-way widths shall
conform to the following table.
STREET TYPE RIGHT-OF-WAY
STREET TYPE                                 RIGHT-OF-WAY
a. Major Thorofare                          120 feet in conformance with Major
                                            Thorofare Plan of the city
b. Collector Streets (Secondary Thorofares) 66 through 86 feet
c. Industrial collector streets             86 feet
d. Industrial service streets               60 feet
e. Multiple-family residential streets      60 feet
where platted
f. Minor Streets (Single-Family             60 feet
Residential)
g. Marginal Access Streets                  34 feet
h. Turn-around (Loop) street                110 feet
I. Alley                                    33 feet
j. Cul-de-sac Street/Turn-arounds            
(1) Industrial                              75 foot radius*
(2) Residential and Other                   60 foot radius*
*Length for cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 600 feet.
 
      (2)   Roadway Widths: Street roadway widths shall conform to the
following table.
STREET TYPE PAVEMENT WIDTH*
STREET TYPE                            PAVEMENT WIDTH*
a. Major Thorofare                     In conformance with the Major Thorofare
                                       Plan of the city
b. Collector streets                   30 feet
c. Industrial collector streets        30 feet
d. Industrial service streets          30 feet
e. Multiple-family residential streets 30 feet
where platted
f. Minor Streets (Single-Family        27 feet
Residential)
g. Marginal Access Streets             24 feet
h. Turn-around (Loop) Street           24 feet
I. Alley                               20 feet
j. Cul-de-sac Streets Turn-arounds      
(1) Industrial                         54 foot radius with curb and gutter
(2) Residential and Others             45 foot radius with curb and gutter
*measured from face of curb to face of curb
 
      (3)   Street Geometrics: Standards for maximum and minimum street grades,
vertical and horizontal street curves and sight distances shall be established
by resolution of the City Commission, after review and approval by the City
Engineer.
   (C)   Intersections
      (1)   Angle of Intersection: Streets shall intersect at ninety (90)
degrees or closer, thereto and in no case at less than eighty (80) degrees.
      (2)   Site Triangles: Minimum clear sight distance at all street
intersections and street junctions shall permit vehicles to be visible to the
driver of another vehicle when each is one hundred twenty-five (125) feet from
the center of the intersection, and within which area no obstruction to vision,
excluding existing topography, shall be permitted from a height of two (2) feet
to eight (8) feet above centerline elevation of abutting streets, except that
not more than (1) tree with a trunk of not more than thirty (30) inches in
diameter, and clear of any branches for such heights may be located within such
area, provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit the requirements
of a greater clear vision zoning where such is necessary in view of permitted
traffic turning moments, existing and anticipated traffic volumes, traffic
speeds, intersection configurations, geographic and topographic conditions, or
any other unique characteristics which may require a greater clear vision zone.
The area of the clear vision zone shall be shown as an easement on the plat.
      (3)   Number of Streets: No more than two (2) streets shall cross at any
one intersection.
      (4)   "T" Intersections: Except on arterials and certain collectors, "T"
type intersections shall be used where practical.
      (5)   Centerline Offsets: Slight jogs at intersections shall be avoided.
Where such jobs are unavoidable, street centerlines shall be offset by a
distance of one hundred twenty-five (125) feet or more.
      (6)   Vertical Alignment of Intersection: A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections. This flat
section shall be carried back fifty (50) feet to one hundred (100) feet each
way from the intersection. An allowance of 2 percent maximum intersection grade
in rolling and four (4) percent in hilly terrain will be permitted.
      (7)   Acceleration-deceleration lanes: Streets that intersect with major
or secondary thoroughfares shall be provided with paved acceleration and
deceleration lanes and passing lanes on both sides of the thorofare. The lanes
shall be provided in keeping with the standards approved by the City Commission
for this type of improvement.
   (D)   Signs and Signalization. The developer shall be responsible for
placement of street name signs at all street intersections in accordance with
the requirements of the city. Where roads are proposed to be dedicated to the
city, the City may install the signs at the developer's expense. The developer
shall also be responsible for placement of pavement markings and regulatory
street signs (such as no parking signs, stop or yield signs, speed limit signs,
and warning signs) as requested by the City or the MDOT. All regulatory signs
shall be in conformance with the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices. The developer shall be responsible for placement of traffic
signalization, as required by the city.
   (E)   Phasing. Each phase of the plat shall be designed to meet the street
requirements above, regardless of whether future phases are constructed.
   (F)   Street Names: Street names shall not duplicate any existing street
name in Imlay City and Lapeer County, except where a new street is a
continuations of an existing street.
      (1)   Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same
shall be avoided.
      (2)   Duplications can be avoided by checking new street names with the
Planning Commission's master listing and the City.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.41 BLOCKS.
   Blocks within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   The size and shape of blocks shall be appropriate for the type of lots and
land use proposed. Blocks shall be designed so as to permit good lot
orientation. Safe street design and economical use of the land.
   (A)   Length: Length of blocks between intersecting streets shall he no less
than five hundred (500) or more than one thousand three hundred and twenty
(1,320) feet in length.
   (B)   Arrangement: A block shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers
of lots and shall not be less than two hundred and forty (240) feet, except
where lots back into a major thorofare, natural feature or subdivision
boundary.
   (C)   Non-Residential Blocks: Blocks intended for purposes other than
residential shall be especially designed or such purposes, shall have adequate
provision for off-street parking and loading in accordance with the
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.42 LOTS.
   Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   General lot arrangement.
      (1)   Through lots (lots with frontage on two parallel streets) are
prohibited, except in the case of a reverse frontage lot that abuts a major
thorofare where access to such major thoroughfare is prohibited.
      (2)   Lots facing a three-way intersection should be aligned to prevent
on-coming headlight glare into the living area of the building envelope.
      (3)   Blocks shall be so designed as to provide two (2) tiers of back-to-
back lots, except where lots back onto a major thoroughfare, railroad, natural
feature or subdivision boundary.
      (4)   Corner lots shall have access to the lesser traveled roadway.
      (5)   If the plat extends into an adjacent community, boundaries for
individual lots shall be within one community to the extent feasible. In no
case shall a building envelope result in a situation where a home crosses a
community or school district boundary.
      (6)   If the subdivision includes any outlots or excepted parcels, an
illustration shall be provided to demonstrate that the remaining land can be
used or subdivided in conformance with City standards.
   (B)   Sizes and Shapes.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth and shape in any subdivision proposed
for residential uses shall be appropriate for the location and the type of
development contemplated.
      (2)   Lot areas and widths shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance for the district in which the subdivision
is proposed.
      (3)   Width Related To Length: Narrow deep lots shall be avoided. The
depth of a lot generally shall not exceed four (4) times the width as measured
at the building line.
      (4)   Building setback lines shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance. Staggered building lines are encouraged.
      (5)   Areas of the subdivision plat that contain ponds, lakes, or similar
bodies of water shall be recorded as acreage, but shall not be platted as
subdivision lots nor calculated as a portion of the minimum lot area as
required by the Zoning Ordinance. This provision shall not apply to artificial
ponds or pools created on a lot after final plat approval.
      (6)   Comer lots in residential subdivisions shall be platted at least
ten (10) feet wider than the minimum width permitted by the Zoning Ordinance.
      (7)   Lots shalt be of sufficient size and proportion to accommodate at
least the minimum requirements of the Zoning Ordinance for the district in
which the subdivision is located.
      (8)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate provision for
off-street parking, off-street loading and other requirements in accordance
with the Zoning Ordinance.
      (9)   Lots which abut an active rail line shall have minimum depth of two
hundred fifty (250) feet to provide a minimum seventy five (75) foot setback
from the railroad right-of-way line.
      (10)   Uninhabitable Area: Lands subject to flooding or otherwise deemed
by the Planning Commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for
residential purposes, or for uses that may in the judgment of the Planning
Commission increase the danger to health, life, or property, or increase the
flood hazard. Such land within a subdivision shall be set aside for other uses,
such as parks or other open space.
      (11)   Back-Up Lots: Lots shall not back into such features as freeways,
arterial streets, shopping centers, or industrial properties, except where
there is a marginal access street, unless a secondary access is provided. Such
lots shall contain a landscaped easement along the rear at least twenty (20)
feet wide in addition to the utility easement to restrict access to the
arterial street to minimize noise and to protect outdoor living areas. Lots
extending through a block and having frontage on two (2) local streets shall be
prohibited.
      (12)   Future Arrangements: Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are required for septic tank
operations), the parcels shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for
resubdividing into smaller parcels in a logical fashion. Lot arrangements shall
allow for the ultimate extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide
blocks. Whenever such future re-dividing or lot splitting is contemplated the
plan for such shall be approved by the Planning Commission, or its designee
prior to the taking of such actions.
   (C)   Arrangement.
      (1)   Every lot shall front on, and have direct access to, a public
street approved by City, with vehicular access only to a minor street. In
addition, the driveways for all corner lots shall access the most interior, or
less traveled, street within the subdivision.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall generally be at right angles or radial to the
street centerlines. This requirement shall not apply where such lot lines would
create irregularly shaped lots which would unreasonably limit construction, or
where adjustments to the standard lot configuration would protect regulated
wetlands or preserve other natural features, such as topography. Dogleg side
lot lines shall be avoided.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thorofares shall be platted so that
the driveways shall access the interior road network.
      (4)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.43 SIDEWALKS, PEDESTRIAN THROUGH-BLOCK CONNECTORS AND BIKEPATHS.
   (A)   Requirement. Sidewalks or bikepaths shall be required on both sides of
all streets and roads.
   (B)   Through-block Connectors. Pedestrian through-block connectors may be
required in the middle of any block over 1350 feet in length to obtain
satisfactory pedestrian circulation within the subdivision, to provide access
to parks or open space, to provide links with an adjacent subdivision, or to
provide access to an activity center. Where such pedestrian through-block
connectors are required, an easement at least twenty (20) feet wide shall be
provided. The City may require placement of a fence along the easement to
ensure the location is visible and to protect the adjacent property owners,
Pedestrian through-block connectors shall be paved in accordance with the
specifications of the City Engineer, gravel paths or wooden boardwalks may be
permitted in areas with sensitive environmental features.
   (C)   Setback. Any yard which abuts a pedestrian easement shall provide the
required minimum building setback, as applicable, from the easement.
   (D)   Bikepaths. The City Commission, based upon a recommendation of the
Planning Commission, may require bike path be provided from a subdivision where
it abuts a Major Thorofare. The City may also require a bike path to provide
access from within the subdivision to existing or proposed bikepaths outside
the subdivision, or to schools, parks, commercial areas and public
institutions.
   (E)   Sidewalk Specifications. All sidewalks shall be a minimum five (5)
feet wide and constructed to the specifications of the American Association of
State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO).
   (F)   Bike Path Specifications. Bikepaths shall be at least eight (8) feet
wide and constructed in accordance with the specifications of the AASHTO.
   (G)   Grades. Grades shall be clearly illustrated on the plans to insure
proper connection to sidewalks and bikepaths on adjacent lands.
   (H)   Placement. Sidewalks and bikepaths shall be installed by the developer
within the dedicated street right-of-way, private road access easements or
special easement where grades or other factors prevent placement within the
right-of-way or access easement.
   (I)   Crosswalks. Crosswalk pavement markings and signs may be required by
the city. Crosswalks shall be in accordance with the requirements of the City.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.44 LANDSCAPING.
   The selection, size, spacing and planting of all landscaping within a
subdivision shall comply with the landscaping standards of the Zoning Ordinance
and the following standards:
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Tree species should be selected for tolerance of the harsh roadside
conditions in southeast Michigan, for compliance with sight distance
requirements, to ensure maintenance of accessibility to fire hydrants, to
provide a minimum overhead clearance of fifteen (15) feet over any roadway and
eight (8) feet over a sidewalk or bike path, and to avoid interference with
overhead or underground utility lines.
      (2)   Plantings within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant shall be no
taller than six (6) inches.
      (3)   The development and planting of required landscaping shall be the
responsibility of the proprietor; not the individual lot owner.
      (4)   The City Commission, upon recommendation from the Planning
Commission, may approve fewer trees if the proprietor provides evidence that
existing healthy trees over 2.5 inch caliper or natural habitat areas will be
preserved during and after construction.
      (5)   The landscape plan shall be approved by the City Commission, upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission, as part of the Final Preliminary
Plat Process in consideration of the above and compatibility with the visual
character of the surrounding area.
   (B)   Street trees.
      (1)   The minimum size of all street trees shalt be two and one-half
inches (2.5") caliper.
      (2)   One canopy (1) tree shall be planted for each fifty (50) linear
feet along a median boulevard.
      (3)   Street trees shall be planted so that each lot has at least two (2)
canopy trees and each comer lot has at least three (3) canopy trees. Street
trees shall be placed to avoid any future driveway locations.
      (4)   Street trees shall be at least fifty (50) feet from the
intersection of two (2) street right-of- way lines or access easements.
      (5)   Street trees shall be planted between the curb and sidewalk. Trees
shall be at least four (4) feet from the edge of any paved surface and shalt
not interfere with sight distance required by the City.
      (6)   The lowest branch of any canopy tree shall provide a minimum
fifteen (15) foot clearance over a street, and a minimum eight (8) feet above
grade from a sidewalk or bike path. Greater clearances shall be provided if
required by the City.
      (7)   The Planning Commission may allow existing trees three (3) inch
caliper or greater, preserved in good condition, to be counted towards meeting
the above requirements.
   (C)   Landscaping in cut-de-sacs.
      (1)   A minimum of one (1) canopy tree for every one thousand (1,000)
square feet of ground area, rounded upward, shall be planted within each cul-
de-sac or island (e.g., if the island is 2,305 s.f., three (3) canopy trees
would be required).
      (2)   The lowest branch of any canopy tree within the island shall be a
minimum eight (8) feet above the grade of the island and fifteen (15) feet
above the grade of the roadway.
      (3)   The island must be either be mounded to a height of between one
foot, six inches (F-6") and two feet, six inches (2'-6") and planted with grass
or ground cover or have four (4) low shrubs planted for every one thousand
(1,000) square feet of ground area. The shrubs shall be maintained at a maximum
height of two feet, six inches (2'-6").
   (D)   Subdivision entrances. Subdivision entrances may include landscaping,
lighting, identification signs, wrought iron fences or other architectural
features. All such features shall comply with the Zoning Ordinance. A detail of
the entranceway shall be submitted with the tentative preliminary plat. The
lighting for entryway signs must be ground-mounted with no more than two (2)
one-hundred twenty-five (125) watt bulbs directed toward each face of a sign.
In no case shall high pressure sodium or other non-standard bulbs be utilized.
Any features proposed to be placed within the public road right-of-way must
meet City design and sight distance standards. Any features proposed to be
placed outside of the public road right-of-way must be located within an
easement recorded for the maintenance of such features by the subdivision
association.
   (E)   Landscaping as a buffer zone or transition zone. The City Commission,
upon recommendation by the Planning Commission, may require landscaping along
the periphery of the subdivision to serve as a buffer zone from adjacent uses.
A buffer zone may include trees, shrubs, berms or a combination. A transition
zone may include preservation of existing woodlands or slopes, the addition of
landscaping to provide an effective screen, lot sizes which are similar to the
size of adjacent lots or building heights which are similar to the height of
building on adjacent lots.
   (F)   Required landscape green belt. When a subdivision borders a major
thorohfare, and wherever a rear yard abuts a public street or private road, an
easement for construction of a twenty (20) foot wide landscape greenbelt shall
be provided, in addition to the required rear yard setback, measured from the
interior setback line. This buffer zone shall be planted with a minimum of one
(1) canopy tree and one ( 1) evergreen tree for each forty (40) feet of
greenbelt length. Existing natural features shall be retained wherever possible
to promote a natural appearance and to protect the existing ecosystem within
the greenbelt, Where a freeform berm is used as part of the landscape
greenbelt, the minimum height shall be two feet, six inches (2'-6"). The
maximum slope of the berm facing the primary road shall be 6:1 and the maximum
slope of the berm facing the inside of the lot shall be .3:1. The construction
of the greenbelt and its plantings shall be the responsibility of the developer
and not the individual lot owner(s).
   (G)   Detention/Retention Pond. A minimum of one (1) evergreen tree shall be
planted every forty (40) feet around the perimeter of all detention or
retention ponds.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.45 UTILITIES.
   Utility improvements shall be provided by the proprietor in accordance with
the standards and requirements established in this section and any other such
standards and requirements which may from time to time be established by the
City Engineer or by the City Commission.
   (A)   Requirements for Underground Wiring. The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all distribution lines for telephone, electric and cable
television service to be placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided
area. Such conduits or cables shall be placed within twelve (12) foot wide
easements provided to such service companies by the developer. Such easements
shall be located adjacent to the road right of way or in the rear of the lots.
No underground wiring shall be located within a public road right-of-way.
Telephone and electrical facilities shall be planned so as not to conflict with
other underground utilities. The proposed location of all underground wiring
shall be submitted to the City Engineer for approval. Installation shall not
proceed until such approval has been granted. All telephone and electrical
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of construction
approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission. All drainage and
underground utility installations which traverse privately owned property shall
be protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
   (B)   Storm Drainage System
      (1)   An adequate storm drainage system including necessary storm sewers,
catch basins, manholes, culverts, bridges and other appurtenances shall be
required in all subdivisions. Paved spillways shall be required when deemed
necessary by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Adequate provision shall be made for proper drainage of storm water
runoff from residential rear yards. Each yard shall be self-contained and shall
be drained from rear to front except where topography or other natural features
require otherwise. The City Engineer may approve drainage to the rear lot line
where adequate rear yard drainage is provided.
      (3)   Ditch bottoms having greater than a 3% slope shall be sodded. Ditch
bottoms having greater than a 5% slope shall not be permitted.
      (4)   A detention basin is required for all subdivisions, unless the
property is located adjacent to an existing water body and the petitioner
submits a hydraulic study prepared by a registered engineer which shows the
runoff from the development will not adversely affect any or the downstream
properties. A sedimentation basin shall be provided for all developments which
do not require detention. Such drainage shall be permitted only with the
approval of the County Drain Commission.
      (5)   All detention and retention ponds shall be designed to have a
naturalistic appearance and have gradual side slopes of not more than 1:6 so as
to not require security fencing.
      (6)   Where County drains are involved, the County Drain Commission
approval shall be required prior to final preliminary plat approval by the
city.
      (7)   No detention or retention pond shall be placed within a residential
lot. No detention or retention pond shall be placed within a required buffer
zone or along a public road right-of-way unless it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer and Planning Commission that there is no
other alternative. Detention and retention ponds in residential subdivisions
shall be placed in outlots.
   (C)   Sewage System. Public sanitary sewers and other required appurtenances
thereto shall be installed in such manner as to adequately serve all lots shown
on the subdivision plat. Construction plans for sanitary sewers shall be
approved by the City Engineer.
   (D)   Water Supply. Water mains, fire hydrants; required water system
appurtenances shall be constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve all
lots shown on the subdivision plat, both for domestic use and fire protection.
Construction plans for public water shall be approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.46 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided along the front,
rear or side lot lines as necessary for utility lines. Easements shall give
access to every lot, park or public grounds. Such easements shall be a total of
not less than twelve (12) feet wide, six (6) feet from each parcel. Public
utility easements inside lots adjacent to street right-of-way shall be ten (10)
feet wide.
   (B)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone, electric and
cable television company easements should be sought from all of the utility
companies serving the area. It shall be the responsibility of the proprietor to
submit copies of the preliminary plat to all appropriate public utility
agencies.
   (C)   Drainage easements when required by County Drain Commission or City
shall be shown.
   (D)   All easements for public water mains shall be a minimum of twenty (20)
feet in width. Provided all easements for sanitary sewer shall be at least a
minimum of twice the depth of the sewer main.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.47 NATURAL FEATURES.
   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved wherever
possible. Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large
trees, natural groves, water courses, vistas, wildlife habitats, and similar
irreplaceable assets that will add attractiveness and value to the property, if
preserved. The preservation of drainage and natural stream channels must be
considered by the proprietor and the dedication and provision of adequate
barriers, where appropriate, shall be required.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.48 FLOOD PLAINS.
   Any areas of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either wholly or
in-part within the flood plain of a river, stream, creek or lake, or any other
areas which are subject to flooding or inundation by storm water shall require
specific compliance with the Subdivision Act and its review by the Water
Resources Commission of the MDEQ and the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA). The City Engineer will give particular attention to projected flood
plain when considering the adequacy of land for building sites.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.49 ENGINEERING STANDARDS.
   The City Commission may adopt by resolution additional engineering standards
and inspection procedures applicable to subdivision plats. All subdivision
plats shall comply with such adopted standards and procedures.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.51 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this section to establish and define the public
improvements which will be required to be constructed by the subdivider as
conditions for Final plat approval and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the subdivider and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning design, construction, and
financing of public facilities, and to further establish procedures for
assuring compliance with these requirements.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.52 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of
construction plans, including profiles, cross-sections, specifications, and
other supporting data, for the hereinafter required public streets, utilities,
and other facilities. Such construction plans shall be based on preliminary
plans which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared
in conjunction with the final plat. Construction plans are subject to approval
by the responsible public agencies shown. All construction plans shall be
prepared in accordance with the standards or specifications of each such
agency.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.53 PROCEDURES.
   When construction has been completed at the time of filing the final plat,
one (1) complete copy of as-built engineering plans of each required public
improvement shall be filed with the City Clerk coincident with the filing of
the final plat. Other requirements and procedures in the submittal of final
plats shall be as provided in Article 111, Section
152.34.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.54 REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   (A)   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in-accordance with the State Land
Division Act of 1967, Act No. 288 of the Public Acts of 1967, as amended, and
the rules of the State Department of Treasury. Final plats can be approved
prior to placement of all lot irons and monuments provided cash surety is
posted with the City guaranteeing the placement of lot irons and monuments
within one (1) year of approval of the final plat, The amount of security to be
posted will be in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the City
Commission.
   (B)   Streets: All streets shall be constructed in accordance with the
standards and specifications adopted by the City.
   (C)   Curbs and Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be required on all
neighborhood access streets and minor streets and shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the City
Commission.
   (D)   Installation of Public Utilities: Public utilities and driveways shall
be located in accordance with the rules of the City Commission. The underground
work for utilities shall be stubbed to the property line.
   (E)   Requirements For Underground Wiring: The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all lines for telephone, electric, television and other
similar services distributed by wire or cable to be placed underground entirely
throughout a subdivided area, except for major thorofare rights-of-way. Such
conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements provided to such
service companies by the proprietor or within dedicated public ways, provided
only that overhead lines may be permitted upon written recommendation of the
City Engineer, Planner, Commission and the approval of the City Commission at
the time of final plat approval where it is determined that overhead lines will
not constitute a detriment to the health, safety, general welfare, plat design
and character of the subdivision. All such facilities placed in dedicated
public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground
utilities. All such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with
standards of construction approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission.
All drainage and underground utility installations which traverse privately
owned property shall be protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
   (F)   Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by the
City or the Michigan Department of Transportation when the openings are
contiguous to an arterial street or state highway.
   (G)   (1)   Storm Drainage: An adequate storm drainage system, including
necessary storm sewers, drain inlets, manholes, culverts, bridges, and other
appurtenances, shall be required in all subdivisions. The requirements for each
particular subdivision shall be established by the County Drain Commissioner
and the City Commission.
      (2)   Contractors shall grade the banks of all open ditches to a maximum
slope of I to 4, and remove all debris so that drainage easement can be
maintained as a portion of a lot yard area.
      (3)   Construction shall follow the specifications and procedures
established by the County Drain Commissioner. All proposed storm drainage
construction plans for proposed plats shall be approved by the County Drain
Commissioner.
   (H)   (1)   Water Supply System: When a proposed subdivision is to be
serviced by a public water supply system, fire hydrants and other required
water system appurtenances shall be provided by the subdivider in accordance
with the requirements of the City Commission.
      (2)   Individual wells may be permitted in accordance with the
requirements of the County Health Department and the City Commission policies.
   (I)   (1)   Sanitary Sewer System: When a proposed subdivision is to be
serviced by a public sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewers and other
required appurtenances thereto shall be provided by the subdivider in
accordance with the requirements of the City Commission. Sewer systems shall
comply with the requirements of Act 98, P.A. 1913, as amended and any City
ordinances or requirements.
      (2)   Where it is determined in the judgment of the City Commission, with
the advice of the City Engineer and the County Health Department, that a
subdivision cannot be economically connected with an existing public sewer
system or that a public sewer system cannot be provided for the subdivision
itself, then approved septic tanks and disposal fields may be approved which
shall comply with the requirements of the County Health Department, and subject
to the approval of the Michigan Department of Health.
   (J)   Street Name Signs: Street name signs are to be provided in the manner
prescribed by the City and names approved by the City.
   (K)   Street Lighting: Street Lighting shall be required for all streets
within subdivisions. Design aspects, such as spacing of poles, height of
standards, type of lighting, distribution of the illumination pattern,
intensity of illumination, etc., must receive prior approval from the City
Commission and be in accordance with the standards and specifications of the
public utility company.
   (L)   Recreational: Where a school site, neighborhood park, recreation
areas, or public access to water frontage, as previously delineated or
specified by official action of the Planning Commission, is located in whole or
part in the proposed subdivision, the City Commission may request the
reservation of such open space for school, park and recreation or public access
purposes. All such areas shall either be reserved for the respective school
district in the case of school sites or for the city in all other cases;
however, voluntary dedication of these land areas will be accepted.
   (M)   Landscaping and Greenbelts: Financial or other guarantees shall be
made to the City Commission to insure continued upkeep and maintenance of all
landscape improvements. Such guarantees may consist of a deed restriction or
covenant which requires all future purchasers of lots in the plat to belong to
a Homeowners Association and to pay an annual fee adequate to maintain and
upkeep the improvements to their original condition.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.55 INSTALLATION OF STREET TREES AND SIDEWALKS.
   Street trees located along the frontage of lots shall be installed prior to
a occupancy permit being issued for each home, or within six (6) months of
issuance of an occupancy permit where a performance bond is posted with the
City guaranteeing that the trees and sidewalk, where required or provided,
shall be installed. The subdivision deed restrictions should state that
occupancy permits for homes shall not be granted until the required trees and
sidewalk are installed.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.56 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Financial Guarantee Arrangements, Exceptions: In lieu of the actual
installation of required public improvements, the City Commission on
recommendation of the Planning Commission may permit the subdivider to provide
a financial guarantee of performance in one or a combination of the following
arrangements for those requirements which are over and beyond the requirements
of the City, County Drain Commissioner, or any other agency responsible for the
administration, operation, and maintenance of the applicable public
improvement. In case these improvements are specified, completion shall be,
required prior to the issuance of occupancy permits.
      (1)   Performance or Surety Bond:
         a.   Accrual: The Bond shall accrue to the regulatory agency covering
construction, operation, and maintenance of the specified public improvement.
         b.   Amount: The bond shall be in an amount equal to the total
estimated cost for completing construction of the specific public improvement,
including contingencies, as estimated by the regulatory agency.
         c.   Term Length: The term length in which the bond is in force shall
be for a period to be specified by the regulatory agency for the specific
public improvement.
         d.   Bonding or Surety Company: The bond shall be with a surety
company authorized to do business in the State of Michigan, acceptable to the
regulatory agency,
         e.   Escrow Agreement: The escrow agreement shall be drawn and
furnished by the regulatory agency.
      (2)   Cash Deposits, Certified Check, Negotiable Bond, or Irrevocable
Bank Letter of Credit:
         a.   Treasurer, Escrow Agent or Trust Company. A cash deposit,
certified check, negotiable bond, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such
surety acceptable by the regulatory agency, shall accrue to the regulatory
agency. These deposits shall be made with the regulatory agency, or deposited
with a reasonable escrow agent, or trust company, subject to the approval of
the regulatory agency.
         b.   Dollar Value: The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be equal to
the total estimated cost of construction of the specific public improvement
including contingencies, as estimated by the regulatory agency.
         c.   Escrow Time: The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be for a
period to be specified by the regulatory agency.
         d.   Progressive Payment: In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the regulatory agency and the subdivider may
provide for progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the
certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the
extent of the cost of the accordance with a previously entered into agreement.
   (B)   Condition of City Approval of Final, Plat Financial Guarantees: With
respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats
shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of one of the following:
      (1)   The construction of improvements required by this chapter shall
have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the regulatory agency.
      (2)   Surety acceptable to the regulatory agency shall have been filed in
the form of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, irrevocable bank
letter of credit, or surety bond.
   (C)   Special Agreements: A special agreement shall be entered into between
the subdivider and the regulatory agency where street trees and street lights
have been required by the regulatory agency.
   (D)   Inspection of Public Improvements Under Construction: Before approving
a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public improvements,
an agreement between the subdivider and the regulatory agency shall be made to
provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity to the
submitted plans.
   (E)   Penalty In Case of Failure to Complete the Construction of a Public
Improvement: In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
such work within such period of time as required by the conditions of any
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the
responsibility of the regulatory agency to proceed to have such work completed.
In order to accomplish this, the regulatory agency shall reimburse itself for
the cost and expense thereof by appropriating the cash deposit, certified
check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or negotiable bond which the
subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps
as maybe necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company, and
as included in a written agreement between the regulatory agency and the
subdivider.
   (F)   Temporary Improvement: The applicant shall build and pay for all costs
of temporary improvements required by the regulatory agency and shall maintain
same for the period specified by the regulatory agency. Prior to construction
of any temporary facility or improvement, the developer may be required to file
with the regulatory agency a separate suitable bond for temporary facilities,
which bond shall insure that the temporary facilities will be property
constructed, maintained, and removed.
   (G)   Acceptance of Dedicated Officers: Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of streets, public areas, easements, and parks shall be by ordinance
of the regulatory agency. The approval of the Planning Commission of a
subdivision plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by
the local government of any street, easement, or park shown on said plat. The
Planning Commission may require said plat to be endorsed with appropriate notes
to this effect.
   (H)   Release or Reduction of Performance Bond:
      (1)   Certificate of Satisfactory Completion: The regulatory agency will
not accept dedication of required improvements, nor release nor reduce a
performance bond, until the City Engineer has submitted a certificate stating
that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the
applicant's engineer or surveyor has certified to the regulatory agency,
through submission of a detailed as-built survey plat of the subdivision,
indicating location, dimensions, materials, and other information required by
the regulatory agency, that the layout of the line and grade of at public
improvements is in accordance with construction plans for the subdivision and
that a title insurance policy has been furnished to and approved by tile
regulatory agency indicating that the improvements shall have been completed,
are ready for dedication to the regulatory agency and are free and clear of any
and all liens and encumbrances. Upon such approval and recommendation, the
regulatory agency shall thereafter accept the improvements for dedication in
accordance with the established procedure.
      (2)   Reduction of Performance Bond: A performance bond shall be reduced
upon actual dedication of public improvements, to the ratio that the public
improvement dedicated bears to the total public improvements for the plat. In
no event shall a performance bond be reduced below twenty-five percent (25%) of
the principal amount.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.57 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE IMPROVEMENTS BY SUBDIVISION ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivision association to
maintain the commonly owned improvements and land that is not dedicated to a
public agency in accordance with the approved subdivision plat. The subdivision
covenants and deed restrictions shall contain provisions establishing a
subdivision association and describing the responsibilities of the association
and individual lot owners with regard to maintenance of the property on a
continuing basis in accordance with the approved subdivision plat. The
subdivision covenants and deed restrictions shall further establish the means
of permanent financing for required maintenance and improvement activities
which are the responsibility of the subdivision association. Failure to
maintain improvements and land in accordance with the approved subdivision plat
shall be deemed in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements of the
individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks, if required, until acceptance of said improvements by the regulatory
agency. If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated to
the regulatory agency, the City may, on twelve (12) hours notice to the
subdivider, plow the street or effect emergency repairs and charge same to
applicant.
   (C)   The applicant shall be required to file a maintenance bond with the
regulatory agency, prior to dedication, in an amount considered adequate by the
regulatory agency and in a form satisfactory to the regulatory agency, in order
to assure the satisfactory condition of the required improvements, including
all lot improvements on the individual subdivided lots for a period on one (1)
year after the date of their acceptance by the regulatory agency and dedication
of same to the regulatory agency.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
COMPLIANCE STANDARDS
§ 152.60 APPEALS.
   The approvals required under the provisions of the chapter shall be obtained
prior to the installation of any subdivision or project improvements within the
city, in public streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way, and public
easements, and/or under the ultimate jurisdiction of the city. All subdivision
or project improvements within the city installed in public streets, public
alleys, public rights-of-way, or public easements, and/or under the ultimate
jurisdiction of the city shall comply with all of the provisions and
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
DIVISION OF LAND NOT REQUIRING SUBDIVISION
§ 152.70 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application forms and documentation. An application to divide or
consolidate platted lots or unplatted parcels shall be made with the City Clerk
in writing, shall be signed by all required applicants, shall be accompanied by
the necessary fees, and to be considered complete and entitled to
consideration, shall disclose, contain, include or be accompanied by all
information specified in this chapter. If the City provides forms and
guidelines for applications, they shall be used and followed.
   (B)   Information required. Applications shall be accompanied by the
following information:
      (1)   Five (5) copies of a survey map prepared by a professional surveyor
who is registered with the State of Michigan, according to the guidelines
specified in Section 3 of Michigan Public Act 132 of 1970, as amended, showing
the parcels that would result from the requested division or consolidation of
land, provided that the parcels are drawn as large as possible within the 8-1/
2 by 14 inch format required by Act 132, and include all information required
above for the above information scale drawing.
         a.   Dimensions of all existing and proposed parcels.
         b.   All structures on and within fifty (50) feet of the proposed
parcels.
         c.   Location of all existing and proposed public and private
easements and rights-of- way.
         d.   Location of surface water, lakes, ponds, streams, and wetlands.
The initial investigation shall locate wetlands identified on the National
Wetlands Inventory maps, prepared by the U.S. Department of Interior and
available from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality. More detailed
wetlands information may be required if deemed necessary to make a decision
regarding the application.
      (2)   A legal description of existing parcels of land involved in the
application.
      (3)   A legal description of all parcels that would result from the
application being approved. The legal description shall be in a form sufficient
for recording with the Lapeer County Register of Deeds, and shall indicate the
acreage and square footage of all existing and proposed lots and parcels.
      (4)   Copies of any existing or proposed deed, building, use or other
restrictions, covenants, or conditions related to the land involved in the
application.
      (5)   If any portion of the land has been part of a previous request for
division or consolidation of land during the previous ten (10) years either by
the applicant or another person the applicant shall submit the date(s) of such
application(s) and action taken by the city.
      (6)   Information addressing the approval standards in Section
152.72.
      (7)   Additional information that is or may be necessary to application
and approval standards may be required by the City Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.71 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Review by City Staff and Consultants. The application shall be
transmitted to the City Zoning Administrator, Fire Chief, Police Chief, Public
Works Director, City Assessor, and may be submitted to other staff and
consultants for review.
   (B)   Review by Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall review
the application for completeness of data and to determine whether it is in
compliance with this chapter and the City Zoning Ordinance. If deemed necessary
during the course of his/her review, the City Zoning Administrator may submit
the application to other City staff or consultants for review and
recommendation, including but not limited to those having jurisdiction over
assessing, planning, engineering, and/or building code enforcement. The Zoning
Administrator shall approve or deny the application for land division within
thirty (30) days of receipt of a complete application.
   (C)   Appeal to City Commission. The decision of the Zoning Administrator on
an application for land division may be appealed to the City Commission
following Article IX of this chapter.
   (D)   Recording Deeds. Within sixty (60) days after approval of any division
or consolidation of platted lots or unplatted. parcels, the appropriate deeds
and other transfer documents shall be recorded with the Lapeer County Register
of Deeds, if applicable, based on the descriptions and surveys set forth in the
approved application. The recording of such deeds and transfer documents shall
be the responsibility of the applicant. Proof that the deeds have been recorded
must be submitted to the City Assessor within thirty (30) days of recording by
the Lapeer County Register of Deeds.
   (E)   Application for Site Plan Approval or a Building Permit. Following
final approval of a division or consolidation of platted lots or unplatted
parcels in accordance with this chapter, the property owner may apply for site
plan review or a building permit, as applicable, to allow development in
accordance with the Zoning Ordinance. For any land use proposed on such lot or
parcel, the applicable site plan and special land use review and approval
procedures contained in the Zoning Ordinance shall be followed prior to
establishment of such use. Building permits shall not be effective or issued
for land that has been illegally divided or consolidated, and until an approved
division or consolidation has been lawfully recorded and proof of said
recording submitted to the City Assessor.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.72 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING APPROVAL.
   The standards in this Article have been adopted to provide a uniform basis
for decisions required by this chapter, and to allow land division and
consolidation where it would protect public health, safety and welfare; be
consistent with the city's Master Plan; minimize danger from fire and floods;
protect and conserve the value of land and the value of buildings and
improvements upon the land; minimize conflict between land uses; further the
orderly layout and use of land; and provide the most beneficial relationship
between the uses of land and buildings and circulation of traffic.
   (A)   Compliance with State Law. An application shall not be approved unless
it is in compliance with the Land Division Act, Michigan Public Act 288 of
1967, as amended or replaced.
      (1)   A subdivision lot, outlot, or other parcel of land in a recorded
plat may be divided pursuant to the requirements of this chapter only if such
lot, outlot, or other parcel is divided into not more than four (4) parts, and
provided that:
         a.   The resulting parcels shall comply with applicable zoning
requirements, and
         b.   The total land area within the subdivision shall not decrease
below the area of the original plat.
      (2)   The division of unplatted parcels shall not exceed the maximum
number allowed by section 108 of the Michigan Land Division Act, as follows:
         a.   For a parcel, the division, together with any previous divisions
of the same parent parcel or parent tract,
shall result in a number of parcels not more than the sum of the following, as
applicable:
            1.   For the first 10 acres or portion thereof in the parent parcel
or parent tract, 4 parcels.
            2.   For each whole 10 acres in excess of the first 10 acres in the
parent parcel or parent tract, one additional parcel, for up to a maximum of 11
additional parcels.
            3.   For each whole 40 acres in excess of the first 120 acres in
the parent parcel or parent tract, one additional parcel.
         b.   For a parent parcel or parent tract of not less than 20 acres,
the division may result in a total of 2 parcels in addition to those permitted
by subsection (I) above if one or both of the following apply:
            1.   Because of the establishment of one or more new streets, no
new driveway to an existing public street for any of the resulting parcels
under subsection a. of this subsection are created or required.
            2.   One of the resulting parcel(s) under subsection A and this
subsection comprises not less than 60% of the area of the parent parcel or
parent tract.
         c.   A parcel of 40 acres or more created by the division of a parent
parcel or parent tract shall not be counted toward the number of parcels
permitted under subsections (1) and (2) and is not subject to the approval
requirements of this chapter, if the parcel is accessible.
         d.   A parcel or tract created by an exempt split or a division is not
a new parent parcel or parent tract and may be further partitioned or split
without being subject to the platting requirements of this act if all of the
following requirements are met:
            1.   Not less than 10 years have elapsed since the parcel or tract
was recorded.
            2.   The partitioning or splitting results in not more than the
following number of parcels, whichever is less.
               I.   Two parcels for the first 10 acres or fraction thereof in
the parcel or tract plus one additional parcel for each whole 10 acres in
excess of the first 10 acres in the parcel or tract.
               ii.   Seven parcels or 10 parcels if one of the resulting
parcels under this subsection comprises not less than 60% of the area of the
parcel or tract being partitioned or split.
            3.   The partitioning or splitting satisfies the requirements of
this chapter and the Michigan Land Division Act.
         e.   A parcel or tract created under the provisions of subsection (3)
above may not be further partitioned or split without being subject to the
platting requirements of this act, except in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (4).
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City from approving the division
of any such lot, outlot or parcel of land in a case where the owner of such
divided parcel owns land immediately adjacent thereto or in a case where there
is presented to the City an executed agreement to sell and convey such divided
parcel to the adjoining owner and where the combined width, and area of the
divided parcel and the adjacent parcel shall, as a single parcel, conform to
the terms and provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of Imlay City.
   (B)   Zoning Requirements. All lots and parcels created as a result of
division or consolidation of land shall comply with all applicable zoning
requirements, including minimum lot area, lot width, public road frontage or
frontage on an approved private road, and parking requirements. No parcel that
is smaller in area than currently required by the Zoning Ordinance shall be
further divided, except as is provided under section
152.72(d).
   (C)   Parcel Shapes
      (1)   Lots and parcels should resemble rectangles, but irregularly shaped
may be allowed where, in the opinion and judgement of the Zoning Administrator,
conditions dictate. Lot lines should be straight, but may be irregular if
conditions dictate. However, irregular shapes and lines proposed only for the
purpose of meeting minimum area or width requirements shall not be permitted.
      (2)   The depth to width ratio of created through land division or
combination that are ten (10) acres or less in size shall not exceed 4 to 1.
Variation from these proportions may be permitted where such action would
reduce existing non-conformance with these standards.
   (D)   Buildability. An application for division or consolidation of
unplatted parcels shall not be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that
the resulting parcels have adequate usable land area, such that the parcels can
be built upon or used in compliance with Zoning and other City ordinances and
standards without variances, exceptions or waivers. In determining whether this
standard has been met, issues that shall be taken into consideration include,
but are not necessarily limited to the following:
      (1)   Soils that are incapable of supporting a septic system;
      (2)   Unusual topography which may prevent use of portions of a parcel;
      (3)   Presence of easements or rights-of-way that restrict use of a
parcel;
      (4)   Wetlands, surface water, or floodplains that restrict or prevent
use of portions of a parcel;
      (5)   Soils that are incapable of supporting a foundation for a building;
      (6)   The shape of a parcel and/or building footprint with respect to
minimum practical dwelling unit dimensions and;
      (7)   Any other factor related to ability to build on or use the proposed
parcel in a lawful manner.
   (D)   Nonconforming Lots of Record. Notwithstanding these requirements,
division and consolidation proposals for platted lots and unplatted parcels may
be approved in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where the proposed division or consolidation of platted lots and
unplatted parcels would reduce the degree of existing nonconformity with zoning
standards;
      (2)   Where the division of land is proposed with the intention of
immediately combining portions of the original lot or parcel with additional
land for the purposes of creating a new parcel or parcels, provided that the
new parcel or parcels is/are in compliance with zoning requirements or reduce
the degree of nonconformity with zoning requirements.
      (3)   a.   If a division or consolidation of land provides an opportunity
to either (1) create a lot that is less nonconforming or (2) create a lot that
conforms with the Zoning Ordinance standards, the lot shall be made to conform
with Zoning Ordinance standards.
         b.   In each of these cases, the division or consolidation shall be
permitted only if the property owner records an affidavit or deed restriction
with the Lapeer County Register of Deeds which describes the property and the
circumstances and conditions of approval. The affidavit or deed restriction
shall be reviewed by the City Zoning, Administrator and Assessor prior to
recording, and the property owner shall provide a copy of the recorded
affidavit or deed restriction to the city.
   (E)   Easements. Approval of an application shall be conditioned on the
creating, creation, or dedication of other agreements to provide by easements
or otherwise, for roads, public utilities, bicycle/non-motorized vehicle paths,
sidewalks, or other necessary public facilities required.
   (F)   Taxes and Assessment Liens. Any due or unpaid taxes, special
assessments, or financial obligations to the City of or upon the property shall
be paid before an application is given final approval.
   (G)   Consent of the Title Holder. No application shall be reviewed or
approved without the written consent of all title or deed holders of the
subject parcel.
   (H)   Consideration of Deed Restrictions. The effect of private restrictions
on a proposed division or consolidation shall be considered in the review of
the application, not as a separate standard, but as related to other standards
set forth therein. In no such circumstances shall restrictions be binding upon
the city.
INTERPRETATION
SECTION 152.80 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion and preservation of public health,
safety and general welfare of the city. These regulations are not intended to
repeal, abrogate, annul or in any manner interfere with existing regulations or
laws of the city, nor to conflict with any statutes of the State of Michigan or
Lapeer County, except that these regulations shall prevail in cases where these
regulations impose a greater restriction than is provided by existing statutes,
laws or regulations.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
VARIANCE OR APPEAL
§ 152.90 VARIANCES OR APPEALS FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   The City Commission may grant a variance from the provisions of this chapter
on a finding that undue hardship may result from strict compliance with
specific provisions or requirements of the chapter or that application of such
provision or requirement is impracticable. The City Commission may also grant
an appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator on a land division. The
City Commission shall only grant variances or appeals that it deems necessary
to or desirable for the public interest. The City Commission shall not grant
any variance or appeal that would violate the requirements of the Michigan Land
Division Act. In making its findings, as required herein below, the City
Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or
work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity and any other condition
which shall be deemed to be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to
other property owners. Any variance related to a subdivision plat shall be
based upon a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Subdivision Process. For a subdivision plat, the process for a
variance request from this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Applications for any variance shall be made in writing to the City
Clerk by the developer prior to approval of the final preliminary plat, the
application shall state fully and clearly all facts relied upon by the
proprietor. The application shall include any required fee, and be supplemented
with maps, plans, and other additional data which may aid the Planning
Commission in the analysis of the requested variance.
      (2)   The request shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall first conduct a public hearing. Following the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall provide a recommendation to the City
Commission, in accordance with the standards below.
      (3)   The City Commission shall make a decision on the request. In making
its decision, the City Commission may establish requirements, time constraints
or conditions that will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
and requirements of this chapter. The City Commission shall state the reasons
for its finding or decisions as part of its official records.
      (4)   The City Commission shall have the final authority on variances,
waivers or modifications of the standards of this chapter. Appeals of the City
Commission decisions shall be to a court of law.
   (B)   Land Division Process. For an appeal of the decision of the Zoning
Administrator on a land division, the process for an appeal or variance request
from this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Applications for any variance shall be made in writing to the City
Clerk by the applicant within thirty (30) days of the decision of the Zoning
Administrator. The application shall state fully and clearly all facts relied
upon by the applicant. The application shall include any required fee, and be
supplemented with maps, plans, and other additional data, which may aid the
City Commission in the analysis of the requested appeal or variance.
      (2)   The City Commission shall make a decision on the request. In making
its decision, the City Commission may establish requirements, time constraints
or conditions that will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
and requirements of this chapter. The City Commission shall state the reasons
for its finding or decisions as part of its official records.
      (3)   The City Commission shall have the Final authority on variances,
waivers or modifications of the standards of this chapter. Appeals of the City
Commission decisions shall be to a Court of law.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.91 VARIANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The decision on a variance request shall be based on a finding that
practical difficulties result from strict compliance with specific provisions
or requirements of the chapter. In making its finding, the City Commission
shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing
use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance or waiver shall be recommended
unless the City Commission finds that:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his land.
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner.
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which said property
is situated.
      (4)   The variance or waiver will not violate the provisions of the Land
Division Act (Michigan Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended) nor create a
violation of the City Zoning Ordinance.
      (5)   The variance or waiver will not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purpose of this chapter and the City Master Plan.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.92 VARIANCES FROM THE ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Applicable Variances. Variances or waivers from requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance may be considered by the Zoning Board of Appeals where in the
case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that strict
compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in extraordinary
hardship to the proprietor because of unusual topography or other physical
conditions which are not self-initiated or that these conditions would result
in inhibiting the achievement of the objectives of this chapter, a variance may
be granted.
   (B)   Process. The process for a variance request from the Zoning Ordinance
shall be according to the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 152.100 ENFORCEMENT.
   No subdivision plat required by this chapter or the Land Division Act shall
be admitted to the public land records of the County or received or recorded by
the County Register of Deeds, until such subdivision plat has received final
approval by the City Commission. No public board, agency, commission, official
or other authority shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the
construction of any of the public improvements required by this chapter unless
such public improvement shall have already been accepted, opened or otherwise
received the legal status of a public improvement prior to the adoption of this
chapter, unless such public improvement shall correspond in its location and to
the other requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
§ 152.101 PENALTIES
   Penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
as follows: violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person
who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The land
owners, tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation maybe found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided. Nothing
herein contained shall prevent the City Commission or any other public official
or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is necessary to restrain
or prevent any violation of this chapter or of the Land Division Act.
(Ord. 152, passed 1-19-99)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD CONTROL
Section
   
153.01   Short title
   
153.02   Intent
   
153.03   Delineation of the flood hazard overlay zone
   
153.04   Development permit
   
153.05   General standards for flood hazard reduction
   
153.06   Specific base flood elevation standards
   
153.07   Mobile home standards
   
153.08   Floodway protection standards
   
153.09   Disclaimer of liability
§ 153.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Flood Control
Ordinance” of the city.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81)
§ 153.02 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to significantly reduce hazards to
persons and damage to property as a result of flood conditions in the city, and
to comply with the provisions and requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program, as constituted in accord with the National Flood Insurance Act of
1968, and subsequent enactments and rules and regulations promulgated in
furtherance of this program by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, Federal Insurance Administration, as published in the
“Federal Register,” 44 CFR 59 et seq.
   (B)   Further, the objectives of this chapter include:
      (1)   The protection of human life, health and property from dangerous
and damaging effects of flood conditions;
      (2)   The minimization of public expenditures for flood control projects,
rescue and relief efforts in the aftermath of flooding, repair of flood damaged
public facilities and utilities, and the redevelopment of flood damaged homes,
neighborhoods, commercial and industrial areas;
      (3)   The prevention of private and public economic loss and social
disruption as a result of flood conditions;
      (4)   The maintenance of stable development patterns not subject to the
blighting influence of flood damage;
      (5)   To insure that the public has access to information indicating the
location of land areas subject to periodic flooding; and
      (6)   To preserve the ability of floodplains to carry and discharge a
base flood.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81)
§ 153.03 DELINEATION OF THE FLOOD HAZARD OVERLAY ZONE.
   (A)   The flood hazard area zone shall overlay existing zoning districts
delineated on the official Zoning Map. The boundaries of the flood hazard area
zone shall coincide with the boundaries of the areas indicated as within the
limits of the 100 year flood in the report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study
of the City of Imlay City,” dated January 16, 1981 with accompanying Flood
Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps. Within the flood
hazard area zone a regulatory floodway shall be designated. The boundaries of
the regulatory floodway shall coincide with the floodway boundaries indicated
on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map. The Study and accompanying maps are
adopted by reference, appended, and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
term FLOOD HAZARD area as used in this chapter shall mean the flood hazard area
zone and the term FLOODWAY shall mean the designated regulatory floodway.
   (B)   Where there are disputes as to the location of a flood hazard area
zone boundary, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall resolve the dispute in accord
with section 1802 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   In addition to other requirements of this chapter applicable to
development in the underlying zoning district, compliance with the requirements
of this chapter shall be necessary for all development occurring within the
flood hazard area zone. Conflicts between the requirements of this chapter and
other requirements of this chapter or any other ordinance shall be resolved in
favor of this chapter, except where the conflicting requirement is more
stringent and would further the objectives of this chapter. In such cases the
more stringent requirement shall be applied.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81)
§ 153.04 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Development, including the erection of structures and placement of mobile
homes, within a flood hazard area shall not occur except upon issuance of a
zoning compliance permit in accord with the requirements of section 1703 of the
Zoning Ordinance and the following standards:
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall be met;
   (B)   The requirements of the underlying zoning districts and applicable
general provisions of this chapter shall be met;
   (C)   All necessary development permits shall have been issued by
appropriate local, state and federal authorities, including a floodplain
permit, approval, or letter of authority from the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources under authority of Act 245 of the Public Acts of 1929, as
amended by Act 167 of the Public Acts of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 through
323.12. Where a development permit an not be issued prior to the issuance of a
zoning compliance permit, a letter from the issuing agency indicating intent to
issue contingent only upon proof of zoning compliance shall be acceptable.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81)
§ 153.05 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements within a flood
hazard area, including the placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile
homes, shall:
      (1)   Be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and,
      (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
   (C)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
systems into flood waters. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to
avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system during
flooding.
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities shall be designed, constructed and
located to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (E)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (F)   (1)   With regard to the National Flood Insurance Program, and the
regulation of development within the flood hazard area zone as prescribed in §
153.04, the duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include, but are not
limited to:
         (a)   Notification to adjacent communities and the Department of
Natural Resources of the proposed alteration or relocation of any watercourse,
and the submission of notifications to the Federal Insurance Administration;
         (b)   Verification and recording of the actual elevation in relation
to main sea level of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures constructed within the flood hazard area, and
in the case of floodproofed structures, the elevation to which the structure
was floodproofed;
         (c)   Recording of all certificates of floodproofing, and written
notification to all applicants to whom variances are granted in a flood hazard
area zone indicating the terms of the variance, the increased danger to life
and property, and that the cost of flood insurance will increase commensurate
with the increased flood risk, and may reach amounts in excess of $25 for $100
of insurance coverage per year. A record of all variance notifications and
variance actions shall be maintained together with the justification for each
variance.
      (2)   All records and maps pertaining to the National Flood Insurance
Program shall be maintained in the office of the Zoning Administrator and shall
be open for public inspection.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to
obtain and utilize the best available flood hazard data for purposes of
administering this ordinance in the absence of data from the Flood Insurance
Administration.
   (G)   Land shall not be divided in a manner creating parcels or lots which
cannot be used in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse
not subject to state or federal regulations designed to insure flood carrying
capacity shall be maintained.
   (I)   Available flood hazard data from federal, state or other sources shall
be reasonably utilized in meeting the standards of this section. Data furnished
by the Federal Insurance Administration shall take precedence over date from
other sources.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81)
§ 153.06 SPECIFIC BASE FLOOD ELEVATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   On the basis of the most recent available base flood elevation data
the following standards shall apply in the flood hazard area zone:
      (1)   All new constructions and substantial improvements residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the base flood level.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall have either:
         (a)   The lowest flood, including basement, elevated to or above the
base flood level; or
         (b)   Be constructed such that below base flood level, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability or resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the standards of this division are satisfied, and that the
floodproofing methods employed are adequate to withstand the flood depths,
pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated
with a base flood in the location of the structure. The certification shall be
submitted as provided in Section 1701 of the Zoning Ordinance and shall
indicate the elevation to which the structure is floodproofed.
   (B)   The most recent base flood elevation data received from the Federal
Insurance Administration shall take precedence over data from other sources.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81)
§ 153.07 MOBILE HOME STANDARDS.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties in accord with the
following specifications:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the four corners of
the mobile home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations,
except that on mobile homes less than 50 feet in length one tie per side shall
be required.
      (2)   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, except that on mobile homes
less than 50 feet in length four ties per side shall
be required.
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds.
      (4)   All additions to a mobile home shall be similarly anchored.
   (B)   An evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and escape
routes shall be filed with the Police Chief, Department of Public Safety for
mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions.
   (C)   Mobile homes within zones A1-30 on the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall
be located in accord with the following standards:
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be placed on stands or lots which are
elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile
home will be at or above the base flood level.
      (2)   Adequate surface drainage away from all structures and access for a
mobile home hauler shall be provided.
      (3)   In the instance of elevation on pilings, lots shall be large enough
to permit steps, piling foundations shall be placed in stable soil no more than
ten feet apart; and reinforcement shall be provided for piers more than six
feet above ground level.
      (4)   In mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions which exist at
the time this subsection is adopted, where repair, reconstruction or
improvement of streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value
of the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, the standards in
divisions (C)(1), (2), and (3) shall be complied with.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81)
§ 153.08 FLOODWAY PROTECTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   New construction, substantial improvements and all other developments,
including fill, shall be prohibited within zones numbered A1-30 on the FIRM,
except where it is demonstrated to the Zoning Administrator that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development will not harmfully increase the water surface elevation
of a base flood. In determining whether a harmful increase will occur,
compliance with Act No. 245 of the Public Acts of 1929, as amended by Act No.
167 of the Public Acts of 1968 being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 through 323.12, shall be
required, provided that the allowable increase shall not exceed one foot. The
provisions of this section shall not apply within the regulatory floodway. The
provisions of division (B) shall be applied to land situated within the
regulatory floodway.
   (B)   All development occurring within the regulatory floodway shall comply
with the following standards:
      (1)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development shall be prohibited. Exception to this
prohibition shall only be made upon certification by a registered professional
engineer or the Department of Natural Resources that the development proposed
will not have a harmful increase in flood levels during a base flood discharge,
and compliance with Act 245, Public Acts of 1929, as amended.
      (2)   The placement of mobile homes shall be prohibited except in mobile
home parks and subdivisions which exist at the time this section is adopted.
      (3)   Development which is permitted in the regulatory floodway shall
meet the requirements of §§
153.03 through
153.06.
   (C)   The uses of land permitted in an underlying zoning district shall not
be construed as being permitted within the regulatory floodway, except upon
compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81; Am. Ord., passed 1-20-98)
§ 153.09 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based upon engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may
be increased by manmade or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge openings
restricted by debris. Approval of the use of land under this chapter shall not
be considered a guarantee or warranty of safety from flood damage. This chapter
does not imply that areas outside of the flood hazard area will be free from
flood damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of the city or
any officer or employees thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 6.4, passed 6-2-81)
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Mobile home parks
   
154.03   Public nuisance per se
   
154.04   Approval needed
   
154.05   Application
   
154.06   Location of mobile home parks
   
154.07   Minimum height and area requirements
   
154.08   Required conditions
   
154.09   Minimum sanitary and utility requirements
   
154.10   Electricity, lighting and telephone lines
   
154.11   Garbage and trash disposal
   
154.12   Canopies and skirting
   
154.13   Land use certificate
   
154.14   Storage of mobile home
   
154.15   Mobile home developments
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   MOBILE HOME, TRAILER COACH or TRAILER. Any vehicle designed or constructed
so as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or
highways and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a
dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK or TRAILER COACH PARK. The same definition as defined in
Act 243 of the Public Acts of 1959 as amended being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1001
et seq.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.02 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Mobile home parks may be permitted within the city in districts zoned as RM
Multiple-Family as established by the City Zoning Ordinance set forth in the
appendix of Chapter 155, Zoning, upon application to the city and compliance
with the provisions of Act 243 of the Public Acts of 1959, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1001 et seq. and the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE PER SE.
   The location of any trailer or mobile home park subsequent to May 12, 1971
and in violation of any of the provisions hereof is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance per se, and shall be abated by order of any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.04 APPROVAL NEEDED.
   No land shall thereafter be utilized for the erection, construction,
operation, and/or maintenance of a mobile home park as defined by the laws of
the state, except upon application for a permit and approval from the City
Commission signed by the person, firm or corporation seeking the permit and by
the owner and legal title holder of the property sought to be used for such
purposes.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.05 APPLICATION.
   Every application for a permit shall be accompanied with a site plan
indicating the location of roadways, mobile home sites, service facilities, and
the like, and in significant detail to allow the city to determine compliance
with the various sections of this chapter and section 1515, Site Plan Review
(All Districts), of the city's Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.06 LOCATION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   All mobile home parks shall be located on a well-drained site, properly
graded to insure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water. In
addition, access from the trailer coach park to the nearest major thoroughfare
shall be by means of a public right-of-way of not less than 60 feet in width.
No access shall be permitted throughout a residential district.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.07 MINIMUM HEIGHT AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building or structure hereafter erected or altered in a mobile home
park shall exceed one story or 14 feet.
   (B)   The mobile home park shall be permitted only on parcels of ten acres
or more.
   (C)   An open area shall be provided on each mobile home lot, to insure
privacy, adequate natural light and ventilation to each home and to provide
sufficient area for outdoor uses essential to the mobile home. All lots shall
contain a minimum area of at least 4,000 square feet. All mobile home site
areas shall be computed exclusive of service drives, facilities and recreation
space.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.08 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The sum of the side yards at the entry side and non-entry side of a
mobile home shall not be less than 25 feet; provided, however, there shall be a
side yard of not less than 15 feet at the entry side of the mobile home and a
side yard of not less than five feet at the non-entry side of the mobile home.
For irregularly shaped side yards, the sum is determined as the sum of the
average width of each side yard, provided that the required minimum above are
maintained at all points in the side yard, except that in the case of cluster
arrangements of sites the required distance between mobile homes may be reduced
by 20 feet at one end, provided that the average distance between homes is not
less than 25 feet. There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet at the
rear end of the mobile home and a front yard of not less than 20 feet at the
front end of the mobile home.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be located closer then 50 feet to the right-of-
way line of a major thoroughfare, or 22 feet to any mobile home park property
line.
   (C)   Mobile home lots shall abut either a service drive or a public street.
All private service drives or public streets within the site shall be
constructed of black-top or concrete pavements and further shall conform to the
following requirements and in accordance with any other conditions as set forth
by the duly authorized city official:
      (1)   All service drives shall be two-way with no on-street parking
permitted at a minimum pavement width of 22 feet from curb face to curb face.
      (2)   Streets within the mobile home park dedicated as public streets
shall conform with §§
152.31(B) and
152.51(A) of the Subdivision Regulations.
   (D)   Concrete walkways at least 36 inches in width and four inches in depth
shall be provided from the entrance of the park to all mobile home sites and
all required service facilities. Walkways dedicated as part of public streets
shall conform to §
152.53(A) of the Subdivision Regulations.
   (E)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with a concrete stand or pad
designed and constructed in accordance to one of the following minimum
standards:
      (1)   A solid slab of not less than four inches in depth having a length
and width no less than the length and width of the mobile home. The pad shall
be so constructed, graded and placed as to be durable and adequate for the
support of the maximum anticipated load during all seasons.
      (2)   As an alternate each mobile home site shall be provided with a
concrete stand. The stand shall consist of piers numbering not less than that
which will be necessary to stabilize each mobile home and located at least 42
inches below ground.
   (F)   (1)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for
each mobile home site. At least one parking space shall be located within the
immediate proximity of the mobile home site but not within the required road
heretofore mentioned. All parking spaces shall be located within the 20 foot
front yard between the interior, park drives, sidewalks and the mobile home, or
in the side yard between mobile homes provided that no off-street parking in
the side yard shall be closer than ten feet to any mobile home.
      (2)   In addition to the above parking ratio, one additional off-street
parking space for each five mobile home sites shall be provided for visitor
parking. Such additional parking shall be located near recreational facilities
within the site.
      (3)   All parking spaces and parking compounds shall be surfaced with an
asphaltic or concrete surface in accordance with specifications approved by the
duly authorized city official.
      (4)   Such facilities shall be so drained so as to dispose of all surface
water accumulated in the parking area.
   (G)   Every mobile home or trailer coach park shall be equipped at all times
with fire extinguishing equipment in good working order, of such type, size and
number so located within the park as to satisfy applicable regulations of the
State Fire Marshal. No open fires shall be permitted at any place which may
endanger life or property. No fires shall be left unattended at any time.
   (H)   (1)   There shall be provided an area of not less than 500 square feet
for recreation use for each trailer coach site in the trailer coach park. Each
recreation or open space area shall have a minimum area of not less than 25,000
square feet, and shall be not longer than two times its width. Such areas shall
be seeded or sodded with grass or lawn and landscaped with trees and shrubs and
thereafter maintained so as to provide a utilitarian and healthful area for the
residents of the trailer coach park.
      (2)   A greenbelt planting strip of not less than 20 feet in width
exclusive of yard areas shall be placed or located along the perimeter of the
trailer coach park not bordering on a street and/or where it abuts an area
zoned in a residential classification. The greenbelt shall be developed with a
mixture of hardy deciduous and coniferous plant material and maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. Excluded from the planting shall be the following
trees:
         (a)   Ailanthus (tree of heaven).
         (b)   Box Elders.
         (c)   Elms.
         (d)   Poplars and Soft Maples.
         (e)   Willows.
      (3)   The front yard and the side yard adjacent to a street shall be
landscaped and the entire trailer park shall be maintained in a clean,
presentable condition at all time.
   (I)   There shall be provided a separate area either fenced, screened or
enclosed, within the park for the storage of tenants' camping trailers, boats,
snowmobiles, and other similar recreational equipment. Such items shall not be
stored in any other area of the park. This area shall be computed at a ratio of
300 square feet for each ten mobile home sites.
   (J)   No business of any kind shall be conducted in any mobile home park
except for separately permanent structures which contain facilities such as
management's office, laundry and dry cleaning facilities or similar uses which
are designed to service only the residents of the mobile home park.
   (K)   All fences, other than the greenbelt surrounding the park, shall be
uniform in height and shall not exceed 30 inches in height, and shall be
constructed in such a manner as to provide fireman access to all sides of each
mobile home.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.09 MINIMUM SANITARY AND UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Only mobile homes that have approved National Underwriters toilets,
plumbing fixtures and other appliances shall be permitted.
      (1)   Plumbing fixtures shall be connected into a public sanitary sewer
or city approved facilities, and shall meet the requirements of the County
Health Department and the State Plumbing Code.
      (2)   Water supply shall be obtained from the city.
      (3)   Sewer rentals and water charges shall be regulated by city
ordinance [i.e.,
Chapters 51 and
52].
   (B)   All fuel oil and all gas tanks shall be located on each mobile home
site in a uniform manner. All tanks shall be elevated on noncombustible stands
and placed on a concrete color.
   (C)   Construction costs of all utilities shall be the responsibility of the
developer.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.10 ELECTRICITY, LIGHTING AND TELEPHONE LINES.
   (A)   All mobile homes must meet all the requirements of the American
Standards Association, Electrical and Heating Codes.
   (B)   All electric lines, leading to such mobile home space shall be
underground and shall be provided with a 3-wire balanced 115 – 220 volt supply.
When separate meters are installed, each meter shall be located on a uniform
standard post on the lot line of each mobile home space. Wiring shall comply
with the recommended Detroit Edison standards for mobile home parks.
   (C)   Street and yard lights, sufficient in number and intensity to permit
the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night, shall be provided and
shall be effectively related to buildings, trees, walks, steps, and raps. All
electric supply lines for such lights shall be underground and installed in
accordance with the valid rules and regulations of the electric company
involved.
   (D)   All telephone lines within the mobile home shall be located
underground in accordance with the rules and requirements of the General
Telephone Company for such installations.
   (E)   All TV lead-ins shall originate upon central antenna and must be
underground to trailer.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.11 GARBAGE AND TRASH DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A place of such design and arrangement as to be easily kept clean and
located within 300 feet of each individual trailer site shall be provided where
slop pails and empty garbage cans may be cleaned. Water under pressure shall be
available at such places and proper protection provided to prevent back-
siphonage.
   (B)   A sufficient number of adequate fly-proof and watertight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage. Incinerators shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least every three days and
shall not be filled to overflowing or allowed to become foul smelling or a
breeding place for flies. Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner
which creates neither nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by
the City Health Officer.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.12 CANOPIES AND SKIRTING.
   (A)   Uniform skirting of each mobile home base shall be required and such
skirting shall be of 26 gauge solid sheet metal, aluminum or other non-
corrosive metal or material of equal strength and so constructed and attached
to the mobile home so as to deter and prevent entry of rodents, flies, bugs, or
other insects. One access door in the skirting shall be permitted and a screen
vent shall be installed along such skirting at intervals of 20 feet so as to
provide adequate cross ventilation.
   (B)   Permits for the construction of skirting shall be issued by the city
upon filing an application therefore and payment of a fee of five cents per
square foot of the floor area to be enclosed.
   (C)   Each mobile home shall be jacked up in a uniform manner and shall not
be placed on a permanent foundation.
   (D)   Canopies and awnings may be attached to any mobile home and may be
enclosed and used for recreation or sunroom purposes but not as a bedroom or
sleeping quarters. No enclosure shall be elevated more than six inches above
grade level. Canopies or awnings must be made of materials which may be
screened or glassed in with visual contact from three sides, but shall not
exceed ten feet in width or the length or height of the trailer coach.
   (E)   A permit shall not be required for construction or erection of
canopies or awnings which are open on three sides. However, permit shall be
required before construction or erection of any screened, glassed in, or
otherwise enclosed awning or canopy.
   (F)   Permits for the construction or erection of enclosed canopies and
awnings shall be issued by the city upon filing of an application therefore and
payment of a fee of five cents per square foot of the floor area to be
enclosed.
   (G)   Utility cabinets.  Each mobile home may be provided with a similarly
designed enclosed storage structure for storage of goods and the usual effects
of the inhabitants of such park. The overall dimensions of such cabinet shall
not exceed six feet in width, eight feet in depth and five feet in height. All
cabinets shall be kept clean and shall be maintained in good condition and kept
painted. Wherever a shed is erected on a mobile home site it shall be placed on
a solid concrete slab of not less than two inches in depth.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.13 LAND USE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Prior to the human occupancy of any mobile home at any mobile home
site, the proprietor, developer or his authorized agent shall apply for and
secure a land use certificate for the occupancy of each individual site so that
the city may ascertain that the more detailed requirements of this chapter were
hereby met.
   (B)   The minimum floor area of any mobile home shall be not less than 550
square feet.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy shall only be issued for mobile homes for a
period of not less than 90 days within any one calendar year.
   (D)   The City Building Inspector or other agents authorized by the city are
hereby granted the power and authority to enter upon the premises of such
mobile home park or site at any time for the purpose of determining and/or
enforcing any provision or provisions of this or any other city ordinance
applicable to the conduct and operation of mobile home parks.
   (E)   Fees for inspections and the issuance of certificates of occupancy
required or issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be established by
resolution of the City Commission and shall cover the cost of inspection,
administration and supervision resulting from the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.14 STORAGE OF MOBILE HOME.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the storage of any
mobile home for any length of time when the mobile home is not used for living
or sleeping quarters.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.15 MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENTS.
   Any mobile home developments shall comply with Act 243 of the Public Acts of
1959, as amended and/or existing city ordinances.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil
fine of not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines as
provided by §
35.02(C)(2).
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71; Am. Ord. 8.19, passed 3-21-95)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Zoning Regulations
§ 155.01 ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The zoning regulations of the city are set forth in Zoning Ordinance No.
6.1, which is included in its entirety and published in a separate pamphlet.
CHAPTER 154: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Mobile home parks
   
154.03   Public nuisance per se
   
154.04   Approval needed
   
154.05   Application
   
154.06   Location of mobile home parks
   
154.07   Minimum height and area requirements
   
154.08   Required conditions
   
154.09   Minimum sanitary and utility requirements
   
154.10   Electricity, lighting and telephone lines
   
154.11   Garbage and trash disposal
   
154.12   Canopies and skirting
   
154.13   Land use certificate
   
154.14   Storage of mobile home
   
154.15   Mobile home developments
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   MOBILE HOME, TRAILER COACH or TRAILER. Any vehicle designed or constructed
so as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or
highways and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a
dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK or TRAILER COACH PARK. The same definition as defined in
Act 243 of the Public Acts of 1959 as amended being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1001
et seq.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.02 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Mobile home parks may be permitted within the city in districts zoned as RM
Multiple-Family as established by the City Zoning Ordinance set forth in the
appendix of Chapter 155, Zoning, upon application to the city and compliance
with the provisions of Act 243 of the Public Acts of 1959, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1001 et seq. and the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE PER SE.
   The location of any trailer or mobile home park subsequent to May 12, 1971
and in violation of any of the provisions hereof is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance per se, and shall be abated by order of any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.04 APPROVAL NEEDED.
   No land shall thereafter be utilized for the erection, construction,
operation, and/or maintenance of a mobile home park as defined by the laws of
the state, except upon application for a permit and approval from the City
Commission signed by the person, firm or corporation seeking the permit and by
the owner and legal title holder of the property sought to be used for such
purposes.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.05 APPLICATION.
   Every application for a permit shall be accompanied with a site plan
indicating the location of roadways, mobile home sites, service facilities, and
the like, and in significant detail to allow the city to determine compliance
with the various sections of this chapter and section 1515, Site Plan Review
(All Districts), of the city's Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.06 LOCATION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   All mobile home parks shall be located on a well-drained site, properly
graded to insure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water. In
addition, access from the trailer coach park to the nearest major thoroughfare
shall be by means of a public right-of-way of not less than 60 feet in width.
No access shall be permitted throughout a residential district.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.07 MINIMUM HEIGHT AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building or structure hereafter erected or altered in a mobile home
park shall exceed one story or 14 feet.
   (B)   The mobile home park shall be permitted only on parcels of ten acres
or more.
   (C)   An open area shall be provided on each mobile home lot, to insure
privacy, adequate natural light and ventilation to each home and to provide
sufficient area for outdoor uses essential to the mobile home. All lots shall
contain a minimum area of at least 4,000 square feet. All mobile home site
areas shall be computed exclusive of service drives, facilities and recreation
space.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.08 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The sum of the side yards at the entry side and non-entry side of a
mobile home shall not be less than 25 feet; provided, however, there shall be a
side yard of not less than 15 feet at the entry side of the mobile home and a
side yard of not less than five feet at the non-entry side of the mobile home.
For irregularly shaped side yards, the sum is determined as the sum of the
average width of each side yard, provided that the required minimum above are
maintained at all points in the side yard, except that in the case of cluster
arrangements of sites the required distance between mobile homes may be reduced
by 20 feet at one end, provided that the average distance between homes is not
less than 25 feet. There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet at the
rear end of the mobile home and a front yard of not less than 20 feet at the
front end of the mobile home.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be located closer then 50 feet to the right-of-
way line of a major thoroughfare, or 22 feet to any mobile home park property
line.
   (C)   Mobile home lots shall abut either a service drive or a public street.
All private service drives or public streets within the site shall be
constructed of black-top or concrete pavements and further shall conform to the
following requirements and in accordance with any other conditions as set forth
by the duly authorized city official:
      (1)   All service drives shall be two-way with no on-street parking
permitted at a minimum pavement width of 22 feet from curb face to curb face.
      (2)   Streets within the mobile home park dedicated as public streets
shall conform with §§
152.31(B) and
152.51(A) of the Subdivision Regulations.
   (D)   Concrete walkways at least 36 inches in width and four inches in depth
shall be provided from the entrance of the park to all mobile home sites and
all required service facilities. Walkways dedicated as part of public streets
shall conform to §
152.53(A) of the Subdivision Regulations.
   (E)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with a concrete stand or pad
designed and constructed in accordance to one of the following minimum
standards:
      (1)   A solid slab of not less than four inches in depth having a length
and width no less than the length and width of the mobile home. The pad shall
be so constructed, graded and placed as to be durable and adequate for the
support of the maximum anticipated load during all seasons.
      (2)   As an alternate each mobile home site shall be provided with a
concrete stand. The stand shall consist of piers numbering not less than that
which will be necessary to stabilize each mobile home and located at least 42
inches below ground.
   (F)   (1)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for
each mobile home site. At least one parking space shall be located within the
immediate proximity of the mobile home site but not within the required road
heretofore mentioned. All parking spaces shall be located within the 20 foot
front yard between the interior, park drives, sidewalks and the mobile home, or
in the side yard between mobile homes provided that no off-street parking in
the side yard shall be closer than ten feet to any mobile home.
      (2)   In addition to the above parking ratio, one additional off-street
parking space for each five mobile home sites shall be provided for visitor
parking. Such additional parking shall be located near recreational facilities
within the site.
      (3)   All parking spaces and parking compounds shall be surfaced with an
asphaltic or concrete surface in accordance with specifications approved by the
duly authorized city official.
      (4)   Such facilities shall be so drained so as to dispose of all surface
water accumulated in the parking area.
   (G)   Every mobile home or trailer coach park shall be equipped at all times
with fire extinguishing equipment in good working order, of such type, size and
number so located within the park as to satisfy applicable regulations of the
State Fire Marshal. No open fires shall be permitted at any place which may
endanger life or property. No fires shall be left unattended at any time.
   (H)   (1)   There shall be provided an area of not less than 500 square feet
for recreation use for each trailer coach site in the trailer coach park. Each
recreation or open space area shall have a minimum area of not less than 25,000
square feet, and shall be not longer than two times its width. Such areas shall
be seeded or sodded with grass or lawn and landscaped with trees and shrubs and
thereafter maintained so as to provide a utilitarian and healthful area for the
residents of the trailer coach park.
      (2)   A greenbelt planting strip of not less than 20 feet in width
exclusive of yard areas shall be placed or located along the perimeter of the
trailer coach park not bordering on a street and/or where it abuts an area
zoned in a residential classification. The greenbelt shall be developed with a
mixture of hardy deciduous and coniferous plant material and maintained in a
neat and orderly manner. Excluded from the planting shall be the following
trees:
         (a)   Ailanthus (tree of heaven).
         (b)   Box Elders.
         (c)   Elms.
         (d)   Poplars and Soft Maples.
         (e)   Willows.
      (3)   The front yard and the side yard adjacent to a street shall be
landscaped and the entire trailer park shall be maintained in a clean,
presentable condition at all time.
   (I)   There shall be provided a separate area either fenced, screened or
enclosed, within the park for the storage of tenants' camping trailers, boats,
snowmobiles, and other similar recreational equipment. Such items shall not be
stored in any other area of the park. This area shall be computed at a ratio of
300 square feet for each ten mobile home sites.
   (J)   No business of any kind shall be conducted in any mobile home park
except for separately permanent structures which contain facilities such as
management's office, laundry and dry cleaning facilities or similar uses which
are designed to service only the residents of the mobile home park.
   (K)   All fences, other than the greenbelt surrounding the park, shall be
uniform in height and shall not exceed 30 inches in height, and shall be
constructed in such a manner as to provide fireman access to all sides of each
mobile home.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.09 MINIMUM SANITARY AND UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Only mobile homes that have approved National Underwriters toilets,
plumbing fixtures and other appliances shall be permitted.
      (1)   Plumbing fixtures shall be connected into a public sanitary sewer
or city approved facilities, and shall meet the requirements of the County
Health Department and the State Plumbing Code.
      (2)   Water supply shall be obtained from the city.
      (3)   Sewer rentals and water charges shall be regulated by city
ordinance [i.e.,
Chapters 51 and
52].
   (B)   All fuel oil and all gas tanks shall be located on each mobile home
site in a uniform manner. All tanks shall be elevated on noncombustible stands
and placed on a concrete color.
   (C)   Construction costs of all utilities shall be the responsibility of the
developer.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.10 ELECTRICITY, LIGHTING AND TELEPHONE LINES.
   (A)   All mobile homes must meet all the requirements of the American
Standards Association, Electrical and Heating Codes.
   (B)   All electric lines, leading to such mobile home space shall be
underground and shall be provided with a 3-wire balanced 115 – 220 volt supply.
When separate meters are installed, each meter shall be located on a uniform
standard post on the lot line of each mobile home space. Wiring shall comply
with the recommended Detroit Edison standards for mobile home parks.
   (C)   Street and yard lights, sufficient in number and intensity to permit
the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night, shall be provided and
shall be effectively related to buildings, trees, walks, steps, and raps. All
electric supply lines for such lights shall be underground and installed in
accordance with the valid rules and regulations of the electric company
involved.
   (D)   All telephone lines within the mobile home shall be located
underground in accordance with the rules and requirements of the General
Telephone Company for such installations.
   (E)   All TV lead-ins shall originate upon central antenna and must be
underground to trailer.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.11 GARBAGE AND TRASH DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A place of such design and arrangement as to be easily kept clean and
located within 300 feet of each individual trailer site shall be provided where
slop pails and empty garbage cans may be cleaned. Water under pressure shall be
available at such places and proper protection provided to prevent back-
siphonage.
   (B)   A sufficient number of adequate fly-proof and watertight containers
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage. Incinerators shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least every three days and
shall not be filled to overflowing or allowed to become foul smelling or a
breeding place for flies. Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner
which creates neither nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by
the City Health Officer.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.12 CANOPIES AND SKIRTING.
   (A)   Uniform skirting of each mobile home base shall be required and such
skirting shall be of 26 gauge solid sheet metal, aluminum or other non-
corrosive metal or material of equal strength and so constructed and attached
to the mobile home so as to deter and prevent entry of rodents, flies, bugs, or
other insects. One access door in the skirting shall be permitted and a screen
vent shall be installed along such skirting at intervals of 20 feet so as to
provide adequate cross ventilation.
   (B)   Permits for the construction of skirting shall be issued by the city
upon filing an application therefore and payment of a fee of five cents per
square foot of the floor area to be enclosed.
   (C)   Each mobile home shall be jacked up in a uniform manner and shall not
be placed on a permanent foundation.
   (D)   Canopies and awnings may be attached to any mobile home and may be
enclosed and used for recreation or sunroom purposes but not as a bedroom or
sleeping quarters. No enclosure shall be elevated more than six inches above
grade level. Canopies or awnings must be made of materials which may be
screened or glassed in with visual contact from three sides, but shall not
exceed ten feet in width or the length or height of the trailer coach.
   (E)   A permit shall not be required for construction or erection of
canopies or awnings which are open on three sides. However, permit shall be
required before construction or erection of any screened, glassed in, or
otherwise enclosed awning or canopy.
   (F)   Permits for the construction or erection of enclosed canopies and
awnings shall be issued by the city upon filing of an application therefore and
payment of a fee of five cents per square foot of the floor area to be
enclosed.
   (G)   Utility cabinets.  Each mobile home may be provided with a similarly
designed enclosed storage structure for storage of goods and the usual effects
of the inhabitants of such park. The overall dimensions of such cabinet shall
not exceed six feet in width, eight feet in depth and five feet in height. All
cabinets shall be kept clean and shall be maintained in good condition and kept
painted. Wherever a shed is erected on a mobile home site it shall be placed on
a solid concrete slab of not less than two inches in depth.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.13 LAND USE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Prior to the human occupancy of any mobile home at any mobile home
site, the proprietor, developer or his authorized agent shall apply for and
secure a land use certificate for the occupancy of each individual site so that
the city may ascertain that the more detailed requirements of this chapter were
hereby met.
   (B)   The minimum floor area of any mobile home shall be not less than 550
square feet.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy shall only be issued for mobile homes for a
period of not less than 90 days within any one calendar year.
   (D)   The City Building Inspector or other agents authorized by the city are
hereby granted the power and authority to enter upon the premises of such
mobile home park or site at any time for the purpose of determining and/or
enforcing any provision or provisions of this or any other city ordinance
applicable to the conduct and operation of mobile home parks.
   (E)   Fees for inspections and the issuance of certificates of occupancy
required or issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be established by
resolution of the City Commission and shall cover the cost of inspection,
administration and supervision resulting from the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.14 STORAGE OF MOBILE HOME.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the storage of any
mobile home for any length of time when the mobile home is not used for living
or sleeping quarters.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.15 MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENTS.
   Any mobile home developments shall comply with Act 243 of the Public Acts of
1959, as amended and/or existing city ordinances.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, corporation, co-partnership or firm which shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor by violating any provision of this chapter, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100 or by imprisonment in
the county jail not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in
the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 6.3, passed 5-12-71)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Zoning Regulations
§ 155.01 ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The zoning regulations of the city are set forth in Zoning Ordinance No.
6.1, which is included in its entirety and published in a separate pamphlet.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BONDS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Combining water supply and sewage disposal systems of the
16.2     5-6-80      city and providing for the issuance of and sale of bonds
                     to pay the cost.
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting permission to the Detroit Edison Company for a
14.1     1-18-77     franchise for the sale and distribution of electricity to
                     the city.
14.2     6-19-90     Granting to Consumers Power Company the right to a
                     franchise for a local gas business in the city.
                     Granting a franchise to BRE Communications LLC d/b/a Phone
14.5     4-7-98      Michigan for the purpose of constructing, installing, and
                     operating fiber optic cables as part of a
                     telecommunication system.
                     Granting a non-exclusive public utility franchise to DTE
14.6     7-18-00     Energy Marketing, Inc. to conduct a local electric power
                     business for public use within the city.
                     Granting a franchise to C VIII operating, L.L.C. d/b/
14.7     10-1-02     a Charter Communications to own, operate and maintain a
                     cable television and communication system in the city.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite             Code Section
15.231 - 15.246           115.04,
                          115.17
24.201 to 24.328          70.02
24.286                    70.02
28.601 through 28.616     31.01
35.441 through 35.443     114.06
124.1 et seq.             151.51
125.1411                  150.30
125.1001 et seq.          154.01,
                          154.02
125.1401 et seq.          36.01
125.1501 through 125.1531 150.01
126.1601                  151.21
125.1651 et seq.          151.01,
                          151.05
257.1 et seq              70.01
257.1 to 257.82           70.01
257.225                   70.01
257.228                   70.01
257.243                   70.01
257.244                   70.01
257.255                   70.01
257.256                   70.01
257.310E                  70.01
257.311                   70.01
257.312a                  70.01
257.324                   70.01
257.325                   70.01
257.326                   70.01
257.328                   70.01
257.601 through 257.601b  70.01
257.602 through 257.606   70.01
257.611 through 257.616   70.01
257.617a through 257.622  70.01
257.624a through 257.624b 70.01
257.625                   70.01
257.625a through 257.625m 70.01
257.626 through 257.626b  70.01
257.627 through 257.627b  70.01
257.629b                  70.01
257.631 through 257.632   70.01
257.634 through 257.645   70.01
257.647 through 257.655   70.01
257.656 through 257.662   70.01
257.667 through 257.675d  70.01
257.676 through 257.682b  70.01
 
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite            Code Section
257.683 through 257.725b 70.01
257.904 through 257.904a 70.01
257.094e                 70.01
257.905                  70.01
323.1 through 323.12     153.04,
                         153.08
333.16215                70.02
                         §
333.26421                130.70, §
                         130.71
333.26424(b)             §
                         130.72
480.11(a)                70.01
480.12(d)                70.01
480.13                   70.01
480.14                   70.01
480.15                   70.01
480.16                   70.01
480.17                   70.01
480.17(b)                70.01
480.17(c)                70.01
480.17(d)                70.01
480.18                   70.01
480.19                   70.01
480.20                   70.01
480.21                   70.01
480.22                   70.01
480.23                   70.01
480.24                   70.01
480.25                   70.01
484.2102                 115.03
484.2251                 115.04
500.3101 et seq.         115.03
559.101 et seq.          Zoning Code 16.3
560.101 through 560.293  152.03
600.100 et seq.          35.01
600.113                  35.01
600.8395                 71.01
600.8396                 35.01,
                         35.06
600.8701 et seq.         35.01,
                         35.02
600.8701(b)              35.01
600.8703                 35.03
600.8705                 35.04,
                         35.06
600.8707                 35.04
600.8707(6)              35.01
600.8709                 35.05,
                         35.06
760.1 to 776.21          70.02
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      11-5-57     51.46
8.4      3-5-58      114.17
                     52.08,
–      3-5-58      130.30,
                     130.31
–      8-7-58      51.03
–      11-17-64    51.29
–      1-17-73     52.14
–      8-11-76     51.54
–      3-15-77     51.54
–      7-5-77      150.05
–      11-15-77    111.07
–      2-21-78     70.01
–      3-21-78     71.05
                     90.01 -
–      7-5-78      90.08,
                     90.99
                     92.02,
–      11-21-78    92.03,
                     92.10
–      12-6-78     52.06
–      8-18-81     90.02,
                     130.02
                     51.01,
                     51.02,
                     51.05,
                     51.07,
–      1-13-82     51.21,
                     51.29 -
                     51.31,
                     52.05,
                     52.19
–      2-1-83      94.01,
                     94.02
–      2-9-83      94.99
–      4-5-83      70.01
–      4-19-83     151.03
–      7-27-83     151.02
–      4-17-84     150.47, 150.49
–      1-21-86     50.03
–      3-12-86     50.11
–      7-1-86      110.04
–      7-9-86      110.06
–      1-6-87      151.52,
                     151.54
                     51.02,
–      6-16-87     52.06,
                     90.07
–      6-24-87     52.10
–      - -90       51.02
–      - -90       52.06
–      3-6-90      70.01
–      7-3-90      114.04,
                     114.06
                     92.01 -
–      7-21-92     92.11,
                     92.99
                     95.01 -
–      5-5-93      95.14,
                     95.99
–      8-17-93     130.02
2.1      1-25-67     31.01
3.1      4-21-64     30.01
                     150.65 -
3.2      4-5-66      150.75,
                     150.99
                     50.01 -
4.1      3-18-69     50.10,
                     50.99
5.1      5-15-73     152.01 - 152.81, 152.99
                     113.01 -
6.2      6-15-65     113.15,
                     113.99
                     154.01 -
6.3      5-12-71     154.15,
                     154.99
6.4      6-2-81      153.01 -
                     153.09
7.4      9-17-85     33.01 -
                     33.04
8        10-2-79     30.25 -
                     30.27
8.1      - -         70.01
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     90.01 -
8.10     - -         90.08,
                     90.99
8.1a     12-17-68    71.01 -
                     70.21
                     91.01 -
8.12     - -         91.22,
                     91.99
8.12B    4-19-83     91.03,
                     91.04
                     91.01 -
8.12C    12-4-84     91.08,
                     91.99
8.12D    - -         91.99
                     130.15 -
8.14     12-4-73     130.19,
                     130.99
8.15     10-7-75     130.05,
                     130.99
8.16     9-2-80      130.34
8.16A    7-21-87     130.34
                     110.01 -
8.17     5-6-86      110.25,
                     110.99
                     92.01 -
8.2A     9-20-77     92.11,
                     92.99
                     95.01 -
8.2A1    7-21-92     95.14,
                     95.99
                     130.01,
8.3      3-5-58      130.02,
                     130.99
                     114.01 -
8.4A     10-5-82     114.16,
                     114.99
8.5      3-5-58      130.04,
                     130.99
                     130.30 -
8.9      12-29-54    130.33,
                     130.99
                     94.01 -
9.2      - -         94.02,
                     94.99
10.1     3-5-58      111.01 - 111.12,
                     111.99
                     52.01 -
                     52.11,
                     52.13,
                     52.14,
11.1     7-1-48      52.16,
                     52.17,
                     52.19 -
                     52.21,
                     52.23 -
                     52.28
12.1     11-30-56    51.45 -
                     51.54
                     51.01 -
12.2     12-1-56     51.07,
                     51.98,
                     51.99
                     51.20 -
12.3     2-4-64      51.33,
                     51.98,
                     51.99
                     32.15 -
13.1A    8-21-79     32.45,
                     93.01
13.2     6-11-1895   130.03,
                     130.99
13.3     1-20-76     151.01 -
                     151.04
13.5     12-18-84    151.05
14.1     1-18-77     TSO, Table II
14.2     6-19-90     TSO, Table II
16.1     12-5-78     52.45 -
                     52.50
16.2     5-6-80      TSO, Table I
16.5     12-17-85    92.25 -
                     92.31
17.1     10-21-86    151.50 -
                     151.58
18       3-1-94      Ch. 96
19       3-1-94      Ch. 97
2.2      5-3-94      34.01; Amended 6-20-95
10.3     5-17-94     Repealing Ord. 10.2, passed 12-17-85
                     91.01,
–      10-18-94    91.09,
                     91.10
1        11-15-94    Adopting Ordinance
8.18     2-15-95     35.01 -
                     35.07
–      3-7-95      51.54
                     50.99,
                     90.99,
                     91.99,
                     92.99,
                     95.99,
8.19     3-21-95     96.99,
                     97.99,
                     113.99,
                     114.99,
                     150.99(C), 152.99,
                     154.99
8.20     3-21-95     91.07,
                     94.99
8.21     3-21-95     130.99
8.23     3-21-95     33.01 -
                     33.04
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2.2      5-2-95      34.01
–      6-20-95     34.01(Amending 2.2, passed 5-3-94)
–      10-4-95     51.02,
                     52.06
8.2B     12-19-95    98.01 -
                     98.07
13.4     1-16-96     151.05
–      9-1-92      70.02
–      5-7-96      51.54
–      8-20-96     70.02
–      9-3-96      92.28
–      9-17-96     95.02
–      11-19-96    Adopting Ordinance
–      12-21-04    151.05
                     35.07,
7.3      2-4-97      150.30 -
                     150.41,
                     150.99(C)
12.1     5-20-97     51.54
8.2A1    8-19-97     95.08
–      1-20-98     153.08
–      2-3-98      51.02,
                     51.04
–      2-17-98     71.05,
                     71.06
14.5     4-7-98      TSO, Table II
2.2      5-5-98      34.01
–      4-19-05     34.01
20       6-16-98     36.01 -
                     36.08
20A      8-5-98      36.01 -
                     36.08
152      1-19-99     Ch. 152
7.4      5-18-99     33.04
–      9-7-99      51.04
–      12-21-99    90.09
–      4-18-00     70.01
–      4-18-00     95.08
                     99.01,
                     99.10 -
13.6     7-18-00     99.14,
                     99.25 -
                     99.37,
                     99.99
14.6     7-18-00     TSO, Table II
6.1      11-21-00    Entire Zoning Code
7.5      12-18-01    150.01
6        2-19-02     Zoning Code 10.3, 20.8
14.7     10-1-02     TSO, Table II
                     95.08,
                     150.30,
–      10-1-02     150.31,
                     150.36,
                     150.38
21       12-3-02     115.01 -
                     115.21
–      3-4-03      33.02
7.3      7-15-03     150.30,
                     150.38
2.2      5-4-04      34.01
7.3      5-18-04     150.41
6.1      11-3-04     Zoning Code 2.30 - 2.37, 16.6
–      12-20-05    Zoning Code 2.11, 2.16, 2.33, 10.2, 15.1, 15.2, 17.7,
                     20.8, 25.1 - 25.8
7.3      10-3-06     150.31,
                     150.39
6.1      12-5-06     Zoning Code 1.2, 1.6, 17.3, 17.5, 17.6, 17.8, 19.1, 19.7,
                     20.4, 27.1, 27.6, 27.9, 27.10, 28.1 - 28.19
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
6.1      1-16-07     Zoning Code 24.1 - 24.7
2.2      4-17-07     34.01
8.2A1    7-3-07      95.08,
                     95.13
6.1      4-15-08     Zoning Code 24.3, 24.4, 24.6
6.1      5-7-08      Zoning Code 24.3, 24.4
12.1     8-19-08     51.54
                     100.01 -
20       10-7-08     100.08,
                     100.99
15.1     3-17-09     151.35 -
                     151.44
152      3-17-09     152.33
6.1      3-17-09     Zoning Code 2.32, 27.9-27.11, 28.15, 28.20, 29.2
6.1      3-17-09     Zoning Code 16.1 - 16.12
–      9-1-09      150.39
12.1     9-1-09      51.54
                     52.06 -
                     52.13,
                     52.15,
                     52.16,
–      9-1-09      52.18 -
                     52.20,
                     52.22,
                     52.26,
                     52.51,
                     52.52
8.1(E)   10-20-09    70.01
6.1      4-20-10     Zoning Code 2.37, 2.38, 14.1 - 14.8, 17.1 - 17.3, 29.2,
                     23.1 - 23.11
                     130.50 -
21       5-18-10     130.55,
                     130.99
                     130.70 -
22       10-19-10    130.75,
                     130.99
6.1      4-5-11      Zoning Code 16.13, 16.14, 16.15
–      12-20-11    Zoning Code 24.3, 24.6
                     52.45,
16.1     3-6-12      52.46,
                     52.53,
                     52.54
2013-001 7-16-13     Zoning Code 21.1 - 21.8
                    
 
 
CITY OF IMLAY CITY
ZONING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 6.1
CITY OF IMLAY CITY
LAPEER COUNTY, MICHIGAN
 
The Zoning Ordinance is available on the City's website at: https://
www.imlaycity.org/government/zoning-and-ordinances/
